Title: ICRA 2019 Digest Final
Abstract: Presents abstracts for the articles comprising the conference proceedings.

Title: Table of contents
Abstract: Presents the table of contents/splash page of the proceedings record.

Title: Trajectory-based Probabilistic Policy Gradient for Learning Locomotion Behaviors
Key Words: control engineering computing  gradient methods  learning (artificial intelligence)  legged locomotion  probability  robot programming  moderate sample complexity  trajectory-based probabilistic policy gradient  trajectory-based reinforcement learning method  deep latent policy gradient  DLPG  policy function  probability distribution  deep latent variable model  curriculum learning  locomotion skills  Snapbot  four-legged walking robot  Trajectory  Legged locomotion  Task analysis  Gradient methods  Stochastic processes  Training 
Abstract: In this paper, we propose a trajectory-based reinforcement learning method named deep latent policy gradient (DLPG) for learning locomotion skills. We define the policy function as a probability distribution over trajectories and train the policy using a deep latent variable model to achieve sample efficient skill learning. We first evaluate the sample efficiency of DLPG compared to the state-of-the-art reinforcement learning methods in simulated environments. Then, we apply the proposed method to a four-legged walking robot named Snapbot to learn three basic locomotion skills of turn left, go straight, and turn right. We demonstrate that, by properly designing two reward functions for curriculum learning, Snapbot successfully learns the desired locomotion skills with moderate sample complexity.

Title: Learning Motion Planning Policies in Uncertain Environments through Repeated Task Executions
Key Words: collision avoidance  learning (artificial intelligence)  mobile robots  motion control  learned reactive planning problem  motion planning policy learning  execution cost  motion policy  navigation task  online replanning  reactive algorithms  goal location  repeated task executions  uncertain environments  Task analysis  Robot sensing systems  Planning  Navigation  Reinforcement learning  Heuristic algorithms 
Abstract: The ability to navigate uncertain environments from a start to a goal location is a necessity in many applications. While there are many reactive algorithms for online replanning, there has not been much investigation in leveraging past executions of the same navigation task to improve future executions. In this work, we first formalize this problem by introducing the Learned Reactive Planning Problem (LRPP). Second, we propose a method to capture these past executions and from that determine a motion policy to handle obstacles that the robot has seen before. Third, we show from our experiments that using this policy can significantly reduce the execution cost over just using reactive algorithms.

Title: BaRC: Backward Reachability Curriculum for Robotic Reinforcement Learning
Key Words: learning (artificial intelligence)  Markov processes  optimisation  path planning  robots  BaRC  initial state distribution backwards  model-free RL algorithm  goal-directed continuous control MDPs  curriculum strategy  representative dynamic robotic learning problems  goal-directed tasks  learning signal  model-free policy optimization algorithm  backward reachability curriculum  curriculum generation techniques  robotic reinforcement learning  model-free reinforcement learning  model-free algorithms  reward function  exploration strategies  Robots  Task analysis  Training  Computational modeling  Heuristic algorithms  Complexity theory  Approximation algorithms 
Abstract: Model-free Reinforcement Learning (RL) offers an attractive approach to learn control policies for high dimensional systems, but its relatively poor sample complexity often necessitates training in simulated environments. Even in simulation, goal-directed tasks whose natural reward function is sparse remain intractable for state-of-the-art model-free algorithms for continuous control. The bottleneck in these tasks is the prohibitive amount of exploration required to obtain a learning signal from the initial state of the system. In this work, we leverage physical priors in the form of an approximate system dynamics model to design a curriculum for a model-free policy optimization algorithm. Our Backward Reachability Curriculum (BaRC) begins policy training from states that require a small number of actions to accomplish the task, and expands the initial state distribution backwards in a dynamically-consistent manner once the policy optimization algorithm demonstrates sufficient performance. BaRC is general, in that it can accelerate training of any model-free RL algorithm on a broad class of goal-directed continuous control MDPs. Its curriculum strategy is physically intuitive, easy-to-tune, and allows incorporating physical priors to accelerate training without hindering the performance, flexibility, and applicability of the model-free RL algorithm. We evaluate our approach on two representative dynamic robotic learning problems and find substantial performance improvement relative to previous curriculum generation techniques and naive exploration strategies.

Title: Active Sampling based Safe Identification of Dynamical Systems using Extreme Learning Machines and Barrier Certificates
Key Words: cyber-physical systems  feedforward neural nets  function approximation  Gaussian processes  learning (artificial intelligence)  manipulators  nonlinear dynamical systems  optimisation  robot programming  dynamical system model  robot learning applications  cyber-physical systems  model learning method  ELM learning  invariance property  invariant trajectories  barrier certificates  parameter learning problem  active sampling based safe identification  extreme learning machines  infinite constraint problem  robot arm  barrier constraints  Robots  Trajectory  Safety  Stability analysis  Heuristic algorithms  Neurons  Convergence 
Abstract: Learning the dynamical system (DS) model from data that preserves dynamical system properties is an important problem in many robot learning applications. Typically, the joint data coming from cyber-physical systems, such as robots have some underlying DS properties associated with it, e.g., convergence, invariance to a set, etc. In this paper, a model learning method is developed such that the trajectories of the DS are invariant in a given compact set. Such invariant DS models can be used to generate trajectories of the robot that will always remain in a prescribed set. In order to achieve invariance to a set, Barrier certificates are employed. The DS is approximated using Extreme Learning Machine (ELM), and a parameter learning problem subject to Barrier certificates enforced at all the points in the prescribed set is solved. To solve an infinite constraint problem for enforcing Barrier Certificates at every point in a given compact set, a modified constraint is developed that is sufficient to hold the Barrier certificates in the entire set. An active sampling strategy is formulated to minimize the number of constraints in learning. Simulation results of ELM learning with and without Barrier certificates are presented which show the invariance property being preserved in the ELM learning when learning procedure involves Barrier constraints. The method is validated using experiments conducted on a robot arm recreating invariant trajectories inside a prescribed set.

Title: Navigating Dynamically Unknown Environments Leveraging Past Experience
Key Words: adaptive control  collision avoidance  mobile robots  navigation  autonomous robot navigation  unknown dynamic obstacles  real-time adaptive motion planner  robot motion online  sensed environmental data  limited sensing range  RAMP framework  probabilistic model  unknown dynamic environment  sensing information  RAMP robot  dynamic environment changes  unknown ways  learned probabilistic data  Hilbert maps framework  dynamically unknown environment navigation  Robot sensing systems  Trajectory  Sociology  Statistics  Planning 
Abstract: To enable autonomous robot navigation among unknown dynamic obstacles, a real-time adaptive motion planner (RAMP) plans the robot motion online based on sensing the environment as the robot moves with sensors mounted on the robot. However, the sensed environmental data from the robot's local view is usually incomplete due to occlusions from obstacles and limited sensing range.This paper incorporates learning about the environment into the RAMP framework by leveraging the Hilbert Maps framework to generate a probabilistic model of occupancy of the unknown dynamic environment based on past observations. Utilizing this probabilistic model enables RAMP to reason about trajectory fitness when sensing information is partial and incomplete. This allows the RAMP robot to take advantage of what it has experienced from being in the dynamic environment before to inform its subsequent executions even though the dynamic environment changes in unknown ways. The effectiveness of incorporating such learned probabilistic data into RAMP is shown in both simulation and real experiments.

Title: VPE: Variational Policy Embedding for Transfer Reinforcement Learning
Key Words: learning (artificial intelligence)  Markov processes  pendulums  variational techniques  variational policy embedding  transfer reinforcement Learning  complex problems  deployment conditions  data collection  simulation training  Q-function  master policy  latent variables  latent space  low-dimensional space  simulation-to-real transfer  reinforcement learning methods  Markov decision processes  Optimization  Training  Task analysis  Robots  Adaptation models  Reinforcement learning  Supervised learning 
Abstract: Reinforcement Learning methods are capable of solving complex problems, but resulting policies might perform poorly in environments that are even slightly different. In robotics especially, training and deployment conditions often vary and data collection is expensive, making retraining undesirable. Simulation training allows for feasible training times, but on the other hand suffer from a reality-gap when applied in real-world settings. This raises the need of efficient adaptation of policies acting in new environments.We consider the problem of transferring knowledge within a family of similar Markov decision processes. We assume that Q-functions are generated by some low-dimensional latent variable. Given such a Q-function, we can find a master policy that can adapt given different values of this latent variable. Our method learns both the generative mapping and an approximate posterior of the latent variables, enabling identification of policies for new tasks by searching only in the latent space, rather than the space of all policies. The low-dimensional space, and master policy found by our method enables policies to quickly adapt to new environments. We demonstrate the method on both a pendulum swing-up task in simulation, and for simulation-to-real transfer on a pushing task.

Title: Automatic Labeled LiDAR Data Generation based on Precise Human Model
Key Words: data analysis  image motion analysis  image recognition  learning (artificial intelligence)  neural nets  optical radar  human recognition  point clouds  ground truth label  automatic labeled data generation pipeline  data generation environments  realistic artificial data  automatic labeled LiDAR data generation  precise human model  deep neural networks  Laser radar  Data models  Three-dimensional displays  Pipelines  Labeling  Legged locomotion  Solid modeling 
Abstract: Following improvements in deep neural networks, state-of-the-art networks have been proposed for human recognition using point clouds captured by LiDAR. However, the performance of these networks strongly depends on the training data. An issue with collecting training data is labeling. Labeling by humans is necessary to obtain the ground truth label; however, labeling requires huge costs. Therefore, we propose an automatic labeled data generation pipeline, for which we can change any parameters or data generation environments. Our approach uses a human model named Dhaiba and a background of Miraikan and consequently generated realistic artificial data. We present 500k + data generated by the proposed pipeline. This paper also describes the specification of the pipeline and data details with evaluations of various approaches.

Title: Video Object Segmentation using Teacher-Student Adaptation in a Human Robot Interaction (HRI) Setting
Key Words: computer aided instruction  human-robot interaction  image segmentation  learning (artificial intelligence)  manipulators  teaching  video signal processing  teacher-student learning paradigm  interactive video object segmentation  grasping affordances  children learning process  IVOS dataset  teaching signal  human teacher  unstructured environments  robotics  incremental learning  learning affordances  robot manipulation  human robot interaction setting  teacher-student adaptation  adaptation method  manipulation tasks  HRI setup  appearance student network  appearance teacher network  Task analysis  Adaptation models  Motion segmentation  Education  Object segmentation  Benchmark testing 
Abstract: Video object segmentation is an essential task in robot manipulation to facilitate grasping and learning affordances. Incremental learning is important for robotics in unstructured environments. Inspired by the children learning process, human robot interaction (HRI) can be utilized to teach robots about the world guided by humans similar to how children learn from a parent or a teacher. A human teacher can show potential objects of interest to the robot, which is able to self adapt to the teaching signal without providing manual segmentation labels. We propose a novel teacher-student learning paradigm to teach robots about their surrounding environment. A two-stream motion and appearance “teacher” network provides pseudo-labels to adapt an appearance “student” network. The student network is able to segment the newly learned objects in other scenes, whether they are static or in motion. We also introduce a carefully designed dataset that serves the proposed HRI setup, denoted as (I)nteractive (V)ideo (O)bject (S)egmentation. Our IVOS dataset contains teaching videos of different objects, and manipulation tasks. Our proposed adaptation method outperforms the state-of-theart on DAVIS and FBMS with 6.8% and 1.2% in F-measure respectively. It improves over the baseline on IVOS dataset with 46.1% and 25.9% in mIoU.

Title: Morphology-Specific Convolutional Neural Networks for Tactile Object Recognition with a Multi-Fingered Hand
Key Words: convolutional neural nets  dexterous manipulators  force measurement  force sensors  object recognition  tactile sensors  morphology-specific convolutional neural network  distributed tactile sensors  multifingered hands  high-dimensional information  grasping objects  abundant tactile information  MS-CNN  Allegro Hand  uSkin modules  consecutive layers  finger segment  tactile map  force measurements  joint angle measurements  object recognition rate  triaxial force sensors  Tactile sensors  Convolution  Task analysis  Object recognition 
Abstract: Distributed tactile sensors on multi-fingered hands can provide high-dimensional information for grasping objects, but it is not clear how to optimally process such abundant tactile information. The current paper explores the possibility of using a morphology-specific convolutional neural network (MS-CNN). uSkin tactile sensors are mounted on an Allegro Hand, which provides 720 force measurements (15 patches of uSkin modules with 16 triaxial force sensors each) in addition to 16 joint angle measurements. Consecutive layers in the CNN get input from parts of one finger segment, one finger, and the whole hand. Since the sensors give 3D (x, y, z) vector tactile information, inputs with 3 channels (x, y and z) are used in the first layer, based on the idea of such inputs for RGB images from cameras. Overall, the layers are combined, resulting in the building of a tactile map based on the relative position of the tactile sensors on the hand. Seven different combination variations were evaluated, and an over-95% object recognition rate with 20 objects was achieved, even though only one random time instance from a repeated squeezing motion of an object in an unknown pose within the hand was used as input.

Title: A Maximum Likelihood Approach to Extract Finite Planes from 3-D Laser Scans
Key Words: feature extraction  image registration  image segmentation  laser ranging  maximum likelihood estimation  pattern clustering  ray tracing  stereo image processing  measurement likelihood  point-to-plane distance  ray path information  maximum likelihood approach  object detection  model reconstruction  laser odometry  point cloud registration  robotic systems  strictly probabilistic method  agglomerative hierarchical clustering  3-D laser range scans  finite plane extraction  image segmentation  Laser modes  Three-dimensional displays  Measurement by laser beam  Clustering algorithms  Probabilistic logic  Computational modeling  Maximum likelihood estimation 
Abstract: Whether it is object detection, model reconstruction, laser odometry, or point cloud registration: Plane extraction is a vital component of many robotic systems. In this paper, we propose a strictly probabilistic method to detect finite planes in organized 3-D laser range scans. An agglomerative hierarchical clustering technique, our algorithm builds planes from bottom up, always extending a plane by the point that decreases the measurement likelihood of the scan the least. In contrast to most related methods, which rely on heuristics like orthogonal point-to-plane distance, we leverage the ray path information to compute the measurement likelihood. We evaluate our approach not only on the popular SegComp benchmark, but also provide a challenging synthetic dataset that overcomes SegComp's deficiencies. Both our implementation and the suggested dataset are available at [1].

Title: Designing Worm-inspired Neural Networks for Interpretable Robotic Control
Key Words: brain  manipulator dynamics  mobile robots  neurocontrollers  neurophysiology  nonlinear control systems  recurrent neural nets  search problems  supervised learning  time-varying systems  interpretable robotic control  nonlinear time-varying synaptic links  liquid time-constants dynamics  neuron-pair communication motifs  compact neuronal network structures  sequential robotic tasks  sensory neurons  recurrently-wired interneurons  motor neurons  interpretable dynamics  mobile arm robots  artificial neural network-based control agents  wiring structure  worm-inspired neural networks  liquid time-constant recurrent neural networks  nematode  C. elegans  supervised-learning scheme  search-based algorithm  Neurons  Biological neural networks  Robot sensing systems  Synapses  Correlation  Couplings 
Abstract: In this paper, we design novel liquid time-constant recurrent neural networks for robotic control, inspired by the brain of the nematode, C. elegans. In the worm's nervous system, neurons communicate through nonlinear time-varying synaptic links established amongst them by their particular wiring structure. This property enables neurons to express liquid time-constants dynamics and therefore allows the network to originate complex behaviors with a small number of neurons. We identify neuron-pair communication motifs as design operators and use them to configure compact neuronal network structures to govern sequential robotic tasks. The networks are systematically designed to map the environmental observations to motor actions, by their hierarchical topology from sensory neurons, through recurrently-wired interneurons, to motor neurons. The networks are then parametrized in a supervised-learning scheme by a search-based algorithm. We demonstrate that obtained networks realize interpretable dynamics. We evaluate their performance in controlling mobile and arm robots, and compare their attributes to other artificial neural network-based control agents. Finally, we experimentally show their superior resilience to environmental noise, compared to the existing machine learning-based methods.

Title: Acting Is Seeing: Navigating Tight Space Using Flapping Wings
Key Words: aerospace robotics  biomimetics  control system synthesis  feedback  mobile robots  navigation  path planning  robust control  torque control  flapping-wing robot  wing loading feedback  instantaneous wing loading  bio-inspired robotic flyers  torque control  tight space navigation  Purdu Hummingbird  flight stability  robust controller design  Robot sensing systems  DC motors  Navigation  Loading  Aerodynamics 
Abstract: Wings of flying animals can not only generate lift and control torques but also can sense their surroundings. Such dual functions of sensing and actuation coupled in one element are particularly useful for small sized bio-inspired robotic flyers, whose weight, size, and power are under stringent constraint. In this work, we present the first flapping-wing robot using its flapping wings for environmental perception and navigation in tight space, without the need for any visual feedback. As the test platform, we introduce the Purdu Hummingbird, a flapping-wing robot with 17cm wingspan and 12 grams weight, with a pair of 30-40Hz flapping wings driven by only two actuators. By interpreting the wing loading feedback and its variations, the vehicle can detect the presence of environmental changes such as grounds, walls, stairs, obstacles and wind gust. The instantaneous wing loading can be obtained through the measurements and interpretation of the current feedback by the motors that actuate the wings. The effectiveness of the proposed approach is experimentally demonstrated on several challenging flight tasks without vision: terrain following, wall following and going through a narrow corridor. To ensure flight stability, a robust controller was designed for handling unforeseen disturbances during the flight. Sensing and navigating one's environment through actuator loading is a promising method for mobile robots, and it can serve as an alternative or complementary method to visual perception.

Title: Design and Characterization of a Novel Robotic Surface for Application to Compressed Physical Environments *
Key Words: biomechanics  design engineering  mobile robots  compressed physical environments  robot arms  robot surface  compliant surfaces  habitable space  physical space  tendon-driven robotic surface  herringbone pattern  3D-printed panels  Prototypes  Service robots  Springs  Surface treatment  Robot kinematics  Surface waves 
Abstract: Developments of robot arms are countless, but there has been little focus on robot surfaces for the reshaping of a habitable space - especially compliant surfaces. In this paper we introduce a novel, tendon-driven, robot surface comprised of aggregated, overlapping panels organized in a herringbone pattern. The individual 3D-printed panels and their behavior as an aggregation are inspired by the form and behavior of a pinecone. This paper presents our concept, design, and realization of this robot, and compares our prototype to simulations of four physical configurations that are formally distinct and suggestive of how the surface might be applied to habitable, physical space in response to human needs and wants. For the four configurations studied, we found a validating match between prototype and simulations. The paper concludes with a consideration of potential applications for robot surfaces like this one.

Title: Learning Extreme Hummingbird Maneuvers on Flapping Wing Robots
Key Words: aerodynamics  aerospace components  aerospace robotics  aircraft control  control engineering computing  learning (artificial intelligence)  mobile robots  nonlinear control systems  position control  robot dynamics  robot kinematics  stability  extreme aerobatic maneuvers  visual stimulus  180-degree yaw turn  wingbeat frequency  flight control strategy  hybrid control policy  model-based nonlinear control  model-free reinforcement learning policy  hummingbird-like fast evasive maneuvers  extreme hummingbird maneuvers  flapping wing robots  backward translation  posture stabilization  hummingbird robot  frequency 40.0 Hz  time 0.2 s  Aerodynamics  Vehicle dynamics  Uncertainty  Robots  Adaptation models  Torque  Actuators 
Abstract: Biological studies show that hummingbirds can perform extreme aerobatic maneuvers during fast escape. Given a sudden looming visual stimulus at hover, a hummingbird initiates a fast backward translation coupled with a 180-degree yaw turn, which is followed by instant posture stabilization in just under 10 wingbeats. Consider the wingbeat frequency of 40Hz, this aggressive maneuver is carried out in just 0.2 seconds. Inspired by the hummingbirds' near-maximal performance during such extreme maneuvers, we developed a flight control strategy and experimentally demonstrated that such maneuverability can be achieved by an at-scale 12-gram hummingbird robot equipped with just two actuators driving a pair of flapping wings up to 40Hz. The proposed hybrid control policy combines model-based nonlinear control with model-free reinforcement learning. We used the model-based nonlinear control for nominal flight conditions where dynamic models are relatively accurate. During extreme maneuvers when the modeling error becomes unmanageable, we use a model-free reinforcement learning policy trained and optimized in simulation to 'destabilize' the system for peak performance during maneuvering. The hybrid policy manifests a maneuver that is close to that observed in hummingbirds. Direct simulation-to-real transfer is achieved, demonstrating the hummingbird-like fast evasive maneuvers on the at-scale hummingbird robot.

Title: FMD Stereo SLAM: Fusing MVG and Direct Formulation Towards Accurate and Fast Stereo SLAM
Key Words: feature extraction  motion estimation  pose estimation  SLAM (robots)  stereo image processing  key-feature-based multiple view geometry  global map  3D structure  bundle adjustment  fast stereo SLAM  direct formulation  local map  constant motion model  direct-based formulation  novel stereo visual SLAM framework  FMD stereo SLAM  back-end process  stereo constraint  reprojection error minimization  Simultaneous localization and mapping  Cameras  Three-dimensional displays  Feature extraction  Visualization  Robot vision systems  Two dimensional displays 
Abstract: We propose a novel stereo visual SLAM framework considering both accuracy and speed at the same time. The framework makes full use of the advantages of key-feature-based multiple view geometry (MVG) and direct-based formulation. At the front-end, our system performs direct formulation and constant motion model to predict a robust initial pose, reprojects local map to find 3D-2D correspondence and finally refines pose by the reprojection error minimization. This frontend process makes our system faster. At the back-end, MVG is used to estimate 3D structure. When a new keyframe is inserted, new mappoints are generated by triangulating. In order to improve the accuracy of the proposed system, bad mappoints are removed and a global map is kept by bundle adjustment. Especially, the stereo constraint is performed to optimize the map. This back-end process makes our system more accurate. Experimental evaluation on EuRoC dataset shows that the proposed algorithm can run at more than 100 frames per second on a consumer computer while achieving highly competitive accuracy.

Title: ScalableFusion: High-resolution Mesh-based Real-time 3D Reconstruction
Key Words: cameras  image colour analysis  image reconstruction  image resolution  image sensors  SLAM (robots)  sensor resolution  colorization  multiscale memory management process  high resolution global shutter camera  memory management approach  high-resolution mesh-based real-time 3D reconstruction  dense 3D reconstructions  robot applications  color resolution  depth resolution  surface reconstruction  surface texture  geometrical fidelity  RGB-D based reconstructions  PrimeSense RGB-D camera  Surface reconstruction  Image color analysis  Robot sensing systems  Geometry  Three-dimensional displays  Surface texture  Image reconstruction 
Abstract: Dense 3D reconstructions generate globally consistent data of the environment suitable for many robot applications. Current RGB-D based reconstructions, however, only maintain the color resolution equal to the depth resolution of the used sensor. This firmly limits the precision and realism of the generated reconstructions. In this paper we present a real-time approach for creating and maintaining a surface reconstruction in as high as possible geometrical fidelity with full sensor resolution for its colorization (or surface texture). A multi-scale memory management process and a Level of Detail scheme enable equally detailed reconstructions to be generated at small scales, such as objects, as well as large scales, such as rooms or buildings. We showcase the benefit of this novel pipeline with a PrimeSense RGB-D camera as well as combining the depth channel of this camera with a high resolution global shutter camera. Further experiments show that our memory management approach allows us to scale up to larger domains that are not achievable with current state-of-the-art methods.

Title: GEN-SLAM: Generative Modeling for Monocular Simultaneous Localization and Mapping
Key Words: cameras  collision avoidance  convolutional neural nets  learning (artificial intelligence)  mobile robots  pose estimation  robot vision  SLAM (robots)  depth estimation system  GEN-SLAM  generative modeling  Deep Learning based system  obstacle avoidance  mobile robot  conventional geometric SLAM  single camera  topological map  camera image  topological location estimation  monocular localization  monocular simultaneous localization and mapping  Cameras  Image reconstruction  Simultaneous localization and mapping  Decoding  Training 
Abstract: We present a Deep Learning based system for the twin tasks of localization and obstacle avoidance essential to any mobile robot. Our system learns from conventional geometric SLAM, and outputs, using a single camera, the topological pose of the camera in an environment, and the depth map of obstacles around it. We use a CNN to localize in a topological map, and a conditional VAE to output depth for a camera image, conditional on this topological location estimation. We demonstrate the effectiveness of our monocular localization and depth estimation system on simulated and real datasets.

Title: RESLAM: A real-time robust edge-based SLAM system
Key Words: cameras  edge detection  image colour analysis  image representation  image sensors  motion estimation  optimisation  pose estimation  robot vision  SLAM (robots)  camera intrinsics  sliding window  edge-based verification  RESLAM  camera motions  RGBD sensors  sparse representation  SLAM pipeline  robust edge-based SLAM system  simultaneous localization and mapping  Image edge detection  Cameras  Simultaneous localization and mapping  Optimization  Real-time systems  Microsoft Windows 
Abstract: Simultaneous Localization and Mapping is a key requirement for many practical applications in robotics. In this work, we present RESLAM, a novel edge-based SLAM system for RGBD sensors. Due to their sparse representation, larger convergence basin and stability under illumination changes, edges are a promising alternative to feature-based or other direct approaches. We build a complete SLAM pipeline with camera pose estimation, sliding window optimization, loop closure and relocalisation capabilities that utilizes edges throughout all steps. In our system, we additionally refine the initial depth from the sensor, the camera poses and the camera intrinsics in a sliding window to increase accuracy. Further, we introduce an edge-based verification for loop closures that can also be applied for relocalisation. We evaluate RESLAM on wide variety of benchmark datasets that include difficult scenes and camera motions and also present qualitative results. We show that this novel edge-based SLAM system performs comparable to state-of-the-art methods, while running in real-time on a CPU. RESLAM is available as open-source software1.

Title: On-line 3D active pose-graph SLAM based on key poses using graph topology and sub-maps
Key Words: autonomous aerial vehicles  computational complexity  graph theory  mobile robots  optimisation  path planning  remotely operated vehicles  robot vision  SLAM (robots)  graph topology  pose-graph simultaneous localization  three-dimensional environments  D-optimality metrics  weighted node degree  T-optimality metric  sampling-based path  continuous-time trajectory optimization method  large-scale active SLAM problems  submap joining method  online 3D active pose-graph SLAM  Simultaneous localization and mapping  Measurement  Trajectory  Planning  Three-dimensional displays  Uncertainty 
Abstract: In this paper, we present an on-line active pose-graph simultaneous localization and mapping (SLAM) frame-work for robots in three-dimensional (3D) environments using graph topology and sub-maps. This framework aims to find the best trajectory for loop-closure by re-visiting old poses based on the T-optimality and D-optimality metrics of the Fisher information matrix (FIM) in pose-graph SLAM. In order to reduce computational complexity, graph topologies are introduced, including weighted node degree (T-optimality metric) and weighted tree-connectivity (D-optimality metric), to choose a candidate trajectory and several key poses. With the help of the key poses, a sampling-based path planning method and a continuous-time trajectory optimization method are combined hierarchically and applied in the whole framework. So as to further improve the real-time capability of the method, the sub-map joining method is used in the estimation and planning process for large-scale active SLAM problems. In simulations and experiments, we validate our approach by comparing against existing methods, and we demonstrate the on-line planning part using a quad-rotor unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV).

Title: Modeling and Planning Manipulation in Dynamic Environments
Key Words: collision avoidance  manipulator dynamics  mobile robots  pose estimation  robot vision  steering systems  kinodynamic manipulation planner  dynamic environments  robot dynamics  time-variant environments  manipulation modeling  manipulation planning  online collision avoidance  object pose estimation  steering functions  Planning  Task analysis  Collision avoidance  Manipulator dynamics  Grippers 
Abstract: In this paper we propose a new model for sequential manipulation tasks that also considers robot dynamics and time-variant environments. From this model we automatically derive constraint-based controllers and use them as steering functions in a kinodynamic manipulation planner. The resulting plan is not a trajectory but a sequence of controllers that react online to disturbances. We validated our approach in simulation and on a real robot. In the experiments our approach plans and executes dual-robot manipulation tasks with online collision avoidance and reactions to estimates of object poses.

Title: Efficient Obstacle Rearrangement for Object Manipulation Tasks in Cluttered Environments
Key Words: collision avoidance  computational complexity  manipulators  mobile robots  navigation  object manipulation tasks  cluttered environments  robotic manipulator  constrained confined space  collision-free path  object rearrangement  NP-hard  service domains  collision avoidance scheme  mobile robot navigation  object poses  obstacle rearrangement  polynomial time  Histograms  Planning  Task analysis  Grasping  End effectors 
Abstract: We present an algorithm that produces a plan for relocating obstacles in order to grasp a target in clutter by a robotic manipulator without collisions. We consider configurations where objects are densely populated in a constrained and confined space. Thus, there exists no collision-free path for the manipulator without relocating obstacles. Since the problem of planning for object rearrangement has shown to be NP-hard, it is difficult to perform manipulation tasks efficiently which could frequently happen in service domains (e.g., taking out a target from a shelf or a fridge). Our proposed planner employs a collision avoidance scheme which has been widely used in mobile robot navigation. The planner determines an obstacle to be removed quickly in real time. It also can deal with dynamic changes in the configuration (e.g., changes in object poses). Our method is shown to be complete and runs in polynomial time. Experimental results in a realistic simulated environment show that our method improves up to 31% of the execution time compared to other competitors.

Title: MoveIt! Task Constructor for Task-Level Motion Planning
Key Words: manipulators  path planning  robotic manipulation actions  Task Constructor framework  black-box planning stages  task-level motion planning  robotic manipulation framework  MoveIt!  Planning  Task analysis  Robots  Trajectory  Containers  Generators  Collision avoidance 
Abstract: A lot of motion planning research in robotics focuses on efficient means to find trajectories between individual start and goal regions, but it remains challenging to specify and plan robotic manipulation actions which consist of multiple interdependent subtasks. The Task Constructor framework we present in this work provides a flexible and transparent way to define and plan such actions, enhancing the capabilities of the popular robotic manipulation framework MoveIt!.11The Task Constructor framework is publicly available at https://github.com/ros-planning/moveit_task_constructor Subproblems are solved in isolation in black-box planning stages and a common interface is used to pass solution hypotheses between stages. The framework enables the hierarchical organization of basic stages using containers, allowing for sequential as well as parallel compositions. The flexibility of the framework is illustrated in multiple scenarios performed on various robot platforms, including bimanual ones.

Title: Exploiting Environment Contacts of Serial Manipulators
Key Words: actuators  end effectors  force control  manipulators  environment contacts  serial manipulators  redundant serial manipulator  robot configuration  end-effector forces  actuator  Actuators  Force  Friction  Kinematics  End effectors 
Abstract: We explore the characteristics of secondary contacts when applying forces with the end-effector of a robot and address the question when these secondary contacts can increase maximum applicable end-effector forces or reduce required actuator efforts. To this end, we formalize the effect of such secondary contacts in terms of required actuator efforts and derive efficiency bounds depending on the contact characteristics and robot configuration. Our findings are confirmed by experiments with a redundant serial manipulator.

Title: optimization-Based Human-in-the-Loop Manipulation Using Joint Space Polytopes
Key Words: collision avoidance  geometry  manipulator kinematics  mobile robots  optimisation  motion planner  human-in-the-loop manipulation  optimization  robot operation  Cartesian polyhedron  fast collision-free inverse kinematic  joint space polytopes  singular configurations  constrained manipulability polytopes  operator commands  End effectors  Trajectory  Kinematics  Task analysis  Collision avoidance  Aerospace electronics 
Abstract: This paper presents a new method of maximizing the free space for a robot operating in a constrained environment under operator supervision. The objective is to make the resulting trajectories more robust to operator commands and/or changes in the environment. To represent the volume of free space, the constrained manipulability polytopes are used. These polytopes embed the distance to obstacles, the distance to joint limits and the distance to singular configurations. The volume of the resulting Cartesian polyhedron is used in an optimization-based motion planner to create the trajectories. Additionally, we show how fast collision-free inverse kinematic solutions can be obtained by exploiting the pre-computed inequality constraints. The proposed algorithm is validated in simulation and experimentally.

Title: Large-Scale Multi-Object Rearrangement
Key Words: iterative methods  optimisation  robot vision  search problems  robotic tabletop rearrangement system  high packing factor forces  simulated pushing actions  vision system  iterated local search technique  large-scale multiobject rearrangement  Planning  Task analysis  Grasping  Robots  Annealing  Trajectory  Markov processes 
Abstract: This paper describes a new robotic tabletop rearrangement system, and presents experimental results. The tasks involve rearranging as many as 30 to 100 blocks, sometimes packed with a density of up to 40%. The high packing factor forces the system to push several objects at a time, making accurate simulation difficult, if not impossible. Nonetheless, the system achieves goals specifying the pose of every object, with an average precision of ± 1 mm and ± 2°. The system searches through policy rollouts of simulated pushing actions, using an Iterated Local Search technique to escape local minima. In real world execution, the system executes just one action from a policy, then uses a vision system to update the estimated task state, and replans. The system accepts a fully general description of task goals, which means it can solve the singulation and separation problems addressed in prior work, but can also solve sorting problems and spell out words, among other things. The paper includes examples of several solved problems, statistical analysis of the system's behavior on different types of problems, and some discussion of limitations, insights, and future work.

Title: Manipulation Using Microrobot Driven by Optothermally Generated Surface Bubble
Key Words: bioMEMS  bubbles  hydrogels  microrobots  photothermal effects  optothermal effects  microparticles  optothermally generated surface bubble  manipulation technique  hydrogel microstructures  microrobots  absorptivity  transmissivity  Microstructure  Silicon  Gold  Surface waves  Laser theory  Photothermal effects 
Abstract: A manipulation technique based on optothermally generated surface bubbles is proposed in this paper. The manipulation and assembly of microstructures are completed by using bubbles. In addition, the hydrogel microstructures are also used as microrobots driven by the bubble to operate and pattern the microspheres. Considering that many materials and lasers with different wavelength have been used for generating bubbles by optothermal effects, absorptivity and transmissivity are used as indicators of selections. Besides, the size of the bubble can be controlled by the frequency and time of the laser. This technique is supposed to be applied for manipulation of cells, microparticles and microstructures.

Title: Compound micromachines powered by acoustic streaming
Key Words: acoustic streaming  energy harvesting  gears  machine tools  manipulators  microfabrication  microfluidics  micromachining  polymerisation  pumps  in-situ polymerization process  acoustic energy harvesting  robotic manipulation systems  microfluidic devices  microfluidic devices  mechanical power  microscale turbines  programmable projector  assembly steps  machine components  acoustic streaming  compound micromachines  Acoustics  Rotors  Bars  Oscillators  Turbines  Microchannels 
Abstract: This paper presents the design, fabrication, and operation of compound micromachines powered by acoustic streaming. The machine components were directly incorporated around pillars serving as shafts without further assembly steps using a single-step in situ polymerization process controlled by a programmable projector. Two strategies were presented for harvesting acoustic energy using sharp-edged structures. The first method is based on on-board pumping of fluids and the second method involves engineering of rotors. The implementation of these strategies resulted in the construction of microscale turbines and engines that can be coupled to gear trains for adaptable transmission of mechanical power. We provide a number of further improvements that may together lead to development of compact yet powerful robotic manipulation systems inside microfluidic devices.

Title: ChevBot – An Untethered Microrobot Powered by Laser for Microfactory Applications
Key Words: displacement measurement  industrial robots  integrated circuit manufacture  laser beam applications  microactuators  micromechanical devices  microrobots  semiconductor technology  silicon-on-insulator  ChevBot  microfactory applications  dry environments  thermal MicroElectro Mechanical actuator  laser light  opto-thermal-mechanical energy conversion  opto-thermal simulation model  static displacement measurements  dynamic extension  directional locomotion  laser power  actuator displacements  locomotion velocity  submillimeter robot  laser beam  untethered microrobot  microrobot designs  silicon on insulator wafer  Laser modes  Actuators  Laser beams  Measurement by laser beam  Power lasers  Silicon  Predictive models 
Abstract: In this paper, we introduce a new class of submillimeter robot (ChevBot) for microfactory applications in dry environments, powered by a 532 nm laser beam. ChevBot is an untethered microrobot propelled by a thermal Micro Electro Mechanical (MEMS) actuator upon exposure to the laser light. Novel models for opto-thermal-mechanical energy conversion are proposed to describe the microrobot's locomotion mechanism. First, an opto-thermal simulation model is presented which is experimentally validated with static displacement measurements with microrobots tethered to the substrate. Then, stick and slip motion of the microrobot was predicted using a dynamic extension of our simulation model, and experiments were conducted to validate this model in one dimension. Promising microrobot designs were fabricated on a silicon on insulator (SOI) wafer with 20 μm device layer and a dimple was assembled at the bottom to initiate directional locomotion on a silicon substrate. Validation experiments demonstrate that exposure to laser power below 2W and repetition frequencies below 60 kHz can generate actuator displacements of a few microns, and 46 μm/s locomotion velocity.

Title: Capillary Ionic Transistor and Precise Transport Control for Nano Manipulation
Key Words: capillarity  electrodes  elemental semiconductors  nanoparticles  silicon  size measurement  surface charging  transistors  velocity measurement  negative gate voltage  positive gate  nanodevice  surface charge  capillary interface  solution interface  electrical double layer  nanoparticle delivery  resistive pulse method  velocity measurement  size measurement  CIT device  gate control ability  gate electrode  nanochannel  ionic transport  CIT  Capillary Ionic Transistor  precise transport control  Si  Logic gates  Electrodes  Transistors  Nanobioscience  Electric potential  Ions  Nanoscale devices  nanofluidic  gate voltage control  sub 100nm  micromanipulator 
Abstract: Capillary Ionic Transistor (CIT) is introduced as a nanodevice which provides control of ionic transport through nanochannel by gate voltage. CIT is Ionic transistor which employs pulled capillary as nanochannel with tip diameter smaller than 100 nm. We observed that gate voltage applied to gate electrode, deposited on the outer wall of capillary, affect a conductance of nanochannel, due to change of surface charge at the solution/capillary interface. Negative gate voltage corresponds to lower conductivity and positive gate increase conductance of the channel. This effect strongly depends on the size of the channel. In general, at least one dimension of the channel has to be small enough for electrical double layer to overlap. As a demonstration of the gate control ability, we performed Si nanoparticle delivery via CIT and recorded the deliverance through resistive pulse method. Size and velocity measurement are also conducted, to showcase the versatility of CIT device.

Title: Resolved Viscoelasticity Control Considering Singularity for Knee-stretched Walking of a Humanoid
Key Words: humanoid robots  legged locomotion  motion control  viscoelasticity  task-space  mass viscoelasticity  joint-space viscoelasticity  robust motion  compliant motion  RVC method  kinematic singularity  knee joint torque  RVC capable  humanoid  stable knee-stretched walking  knee-bent posture  resolved viscoelasticity control  Task analysis  Knee  Legged locomotion  Kinematics  Trajectory  Foot  Humanoid robots 
Abstract: This paper describes a stable knee-stretched walking of a humanoid by the resolved viscoelasticity control (RVC). The RVC method resolves multiple viscoelasticities in task-space, including the center of mass viscoelasticity for balancing, into joint-space viscoelasticity. Although a robust and compliant motion was achieved by the RVC method in previous studies, the conventional knee-bent posture to avoid the kinematic singularity suffered large knee joint torque. In this study, we propose an extension of the RVC capable of the kinematic singularity. We demonstrate through simulations and experiments that the RVC method considering the singularity achieves a stable and human-like walking, reducing the knee joint torque and improving the energy efficiency.

Title: Versatile Reactive Bipedal Locomotion Planning Through Hierarchical Optimization
Key Words: control nonlinearities  humanoid robots  legged locomotion  linear systems  motion control  nonlinear control systems  optimisation  path planning  pendulums  predictive control  robot dynamics  step frequency  humanoid robots  hierarchical optimization  angular momentum  nonlinear model predictive control  reactive bipedal locomotion planning  nonlinearities  walking dynamics  step time abilities  step location adjustment  Center of Mass height variation  linear inverted pendulum model  robot gait generation  Legged locomotion  Optimization  Trajectory  Humanoid robots  Linear programming  Dynamics 
Abstract: When experiencing disturbances during locomotion, human beings use several strategies to maintain balance, e.g. changing posture, modulating step frequency and location. However, when it comes to the gait generation for humanoid robots, modifying step time or body posture in real time introduces nonlinearities in the walking dynamics, thus increases the complexity of the planning. In this paper, we propose a two-layer hierarchical optimization framework to address this issue and provide the humanoids with the abilities of step time and step location adjustment, Center of Mass (CoM) height variation and angular momentum adaptation. In the first layer, times and locations of consecutive two steps are modulated online based on the current CoM state using the Linear Inverted Pendulum Model. By introducing new optimization variables to substitute the hyperbolic functions of step time, the derivatives of the objective function and feasibility constraints are analytically derived, thus reduces the computational cost. Then, taking the generated horizontal CoM trajectory, step times and step locations as inputs, CoM height and angular momentum changes are optimized by the second layer nonlinear model predictive control. This whole procedure will be repeated until the termination condition is met. The improved recovery capability under external disturbances is validated in simulation studies.

Title: Using Deep Reinforcement Learning to Learn High-Level Policies on the ATRIAS Biped
Key Words: control system synthesis  learning (artificial intelligence)  legged locomotion  neurocontrollers  deep reinforcement learning  expert knowledge  domain randomization  stable controllers  high-fidelity simulators  neural network policy  ATRIAS robot  bipedal robots  Neural networks  Hardware  Legged locomotion  Reinforcement learning  Torso  Foot 
Abstract: Learning controllers for bipedal robots is a challenging problem, often requiring expert knowledge and extensive tuning of parameters that vary in different situations. Recently, deep reinforcement learning has shown promise at automatically learning controllers for complex systems in simulation. This has been followed by a push towards learning controllers that can be transferred between simulation and hardware, primarily with the use of domain randomization. However, domain randomization can make the problem of finding stable controllers even more challenging, especially for under actuated bipedal robots. In this work, we explore whether policies learned in simulation can be transferred to hardware with the use of high-fidelity simulators and structured controllers. We learn a neural network policy which is a part of a more structured controller. While the neural network is learned in simulation, the rest of the controller stays fixed, and can be tuned by the expert as needed. We show that using this approach can greatly speed up the rate of learning in simulation, as well as enable transfer of policies between simulation and hardware. We present our results on an ATRIAS robot and explore the effect of action spaces and cost functions on the rate of transfer between simulation and hardware. Our results show that structured policies can indeed be learned in simulation and implemented on hardware successfully. This has several advantages, as the structure preserves the intuitive nature of the policy, and the neural network improves the performance of the hand-designed policy. In this way, we propose a way of using neural networks to improve expert designed controllers, while maintaining ease of understanding.

Title: Unsupervised Gait Phase Estimation for Humanoid Robot Walking*
Key Words: data acquisition  data reduction  humanoid robots  legged locomotion  pattern clustering  phase estimation  robot dynamics  robust control  state estimation  unsupervised learning  unsupervised gait phase estimation  humanoid robot walking  contact detection  feet contact status  proprioceptive sensing  inertial measurement unit  data acquisition  dimensionality reduction  state estimation  unsupervised learning  feature representation  gait phase dynamics  joint encoder  force data  torque data  clustering  robustness  legged robots  Legged locomotion  Humanoid robots  Robot sensing systems  Kinematics  Unsupervised learning 
Abstract: Contact detection is an important topic in contemporary humanoid robotic research. Up to date control and state estimation schemes readily assume that feet contact status is known in advance. In this work, we elaborate on a broader question: in which gait phase is the robot currently in? We introduce an unsupervised learning framework for gait phase estimation based solely on proprioceptive sensing, namely joint encoder, inertial measurement unit and force/torque data. Initially, a meaningful physical explanation on data acquisition is presented. Subsequently, dimensionality reduction is performed to obtain a compact low-dimensional feature representation followed by clustering into three groups, one for each gait phase. The proposed framework is qualitatively and quantitatively assessed in simulation with ground-truth data of uneven/rough terrain walking gaits and insights about the latent gait phase dynamics are drawn. Additionally, its efficacy and robustness is demonstrated when incorporated in leg odometry computation. Since our implementation is based on sensing that is commonly available on humanoids today, we release an open-source ROS/Python package to reinforce further research endeavors.

Title: Stair Climbing Stabilization of the HRP-4 Humanoid Robot using Whole-body Admittance Control
Key Words: end effectors  humanoid robots  legged locomotion  linear systems  nonlinear control systems  pendulums  quadratic programming  robot dynamics  stability  stair climbing stabilization  HRP-4 humanoid robot  whole-body admittance control  Airbus manufacturing use-case demonstrator  quadratic programming-based wrench distribution  whole-body admittance controller  walking controller  dynamic stair climbing  walking stabilization  linear inverted pendulum tracking  end-effector  CoM strategy  tracking performance  industrial staircase  open source software  size 18.5 cm  Admittance  Legged locomotion  Foot  Humanoid robots  Force  Task analysis 
Abstract: We consider dynamic stair climbing with the HRP-4 humanoid robot as part of an Airbus manufacturing use-case demonstrator. We share experimental knowledge gathered so as to achieve this task, which HRP-4 had never been challenged to before. In particular, we extend walking stabilization based on linear inverted pendulum tracking [1] by quadratic programming-based wrench distribution and a whole-body admittance controller that applies both end-effector and CoM strategies. While existing stabilizers tend to use either one or the other, our experience suggests that the combination of these two approaches improves tracking performance. We demonstrate this solution in an on-site experiment where HRP4 climbs an industrial staircase with 18.5 cm high steps, and release our walking controller as open source software.

Title: Reinforcement Learning Meets Hybrid Zero Dynamics: A Case Study for RABBIT
Key Words: adaptive control  control engineering computing  control system synthesis  feedback  learning (artificial intelligence)  legged locomotion  mobile robots  PD control  robust control  stability  feedback controllers  bipedal robots  high-dimensional bipedal models  bipedal walking  bipedal control  walking limit cycles  HZD framework  policy learning  adaptive PD controller  stable control policy  robust control policy  RL framework  RABBIT robot model  reinforcement learning  local stability  hybrid zero dynamics  OpenAI gym  MuJoCo physics engine  Legged locomotion  Hip  Rabbits  Robot kinematics  Training  Computational modeling 
Abstract: The design of feedback controllers for bipedal robots is challenging due to the hybrid nature of its dynamics and the complexity imposed by high-dimensional bipedal models. In this paper, we present a novel approach for the design of feedback controllers using Reinforcement Learning (RL) and Hybrid Zero Dynamics (HZD). Existing RL approaches for bipedal walking are inefficient as they do not consider the underlying physics, often requires substantial training, and the resulting controller may not be applicable to real robots. HZD is a powerful tool for bipedal control with local stability guarantees of the walking limit cycles. In this paper, we propose a non traditional RL structure that embeds the HZD framework into the policy learning. More specifically, we propose to use RL to find a control policy that maps from the robot's reduced order states to a set of parameters that define the desired trajectories for the robot's joints through the virtual constraints. Then, these trajectories are tracked using an adaptive PD controller. The method results in a stable and robust control policy that is able to track variable speed within a continuous interval. Robustness of the policy is evaluated by applying external forces to the torso of the robot. The proposed RL framework is implemented and demonstrated in OpenAI Gym with the MuJoCo physics engine based on the well-known RABBIT robot model.

Title: Learning Wheel Odometry and IMU Errors for Localization
Key Words: cameras  distance measurement  Gaussian processes  image filtering  Kalman filters  learning (artificial intelligence)  mobile robots  nonlinear filters  path planning  robot vision  wheel odometry  IMU errors  odometry techniques  autonomous robot navigation  robust odometry system  camera  deep learning  variational inference  observation models  state-space systems  Gaussian processes  ground truth  wheel encoders  fiber optic gyro  EKF  wheel speed sensors  inertial measurement unit  extended Kalman filter  Wheels  Kernel  Mobile robots  Sensors  Gaussian processes  Training  Gaussian process  odometry estimation  variational inference  Kalman filter 
Abstract: Odometry techniques are key to autonomous robot navigation, since they enable self-localization in the environment. However, designing a robust odometry system is particularly challenging when camera and LiDAR are uninformative or unavailable. In this paper, we leverage recent advances in deep learning and variational inference to correct dynamical and observation models for state-space systems. The methodology trains Gaussian processes on the residual between the original model and the ground truth, and is applied on publicly available datasets for robot navigation based on two wheel encoders, a fiber optic gyro, and an Inertial Measurement Unit (IMU). We also propose to build an Extended Kalman Filter (EKF) on the learned model using wheel speed sensors and the fiber optic gyro for state propagation, and the IMU to update the estimated state. Experimental results clearly demonstrate that the (learned) corrected models and EKF are more accurate than their original counterparts.

Title: Radar-only ego-motion estimation in difficult settings via graph matching
Key Words: distance measurement  feature extraction  Global Positioning System  graph theory  image matching  motion estimation  object detection  radar detection  sensor fusion  speckle noise  scan matching accuracy  visual odometry  ego-motion estimation  stable range objects  long-range objects  variable weather  lighting conditions  radar-only odometry pipeline  radar artifacts  key point extraction  data association  graph matching optimization problem  Robot sensing systems  Azimuth  Radar measurements  Radar detection  Feature extraction  Estimation 
Abstract: Radar detects stable, long-range objects under variable weather and lighting conditions, making it a reliable and versatile sensor well suited for ego-motion estimation. In this work, we propose a radar-only odometry pipeline that is highly robust to radar artifacts (e.g., speckle noise and false positives) and requires only one input parameter. We demonstrate its ability to adapt across diverse settings, from urban UK to off-road Iceland, achieving a scan matching accuracy of approximately 5.20 cm and 0.0929 deg when using GPS as ground truth (compared to visual odometry's 5.77 cm and 0.1032 deg). We present algorithms for key point extraction and data association, framing the latter as a graph matching optimization problem, and provide an in-depth system analysis.

Title: Recursive Integrity Monitoring for Mobile Robot Localization Safety
Key Words: fault diagnosis  Kalman filters  mobile robots  nonlinear filters  constant computation requirements  sequential chi-squared integrity monitoring methodology  fault detection  Extended Kalman Filter  mobile ground robots  open-sky aviation applications  integrity risk  mobile robot localization safety  recursive integrity monitoring  preceding time window  Monitoring  Feature extraction  Safety  Fault detection  Robot sensing systems  Kalman filters 
Abstract: This paper presents a new methodology to quantify robot localization safety by evaluating integrity risk, a performance metric widely used in open-sky aviation applications that has been recently extended to mobile ground robots. Here, a robot is localized by feeding relative measurements to mapped landmarks into an Extended Kalman Filter while a sequence of innovations is evaluated for fault detection. The main contribution is the derivation of a sequential chi-squared integrity monitoring methodology that maintains constant computation requirements by employing a preceding time window and, at the same time, is robust against faults occurring prior to the window. Additionally, no assumptions are made on either the nature or shape of the faults because safety is evaluated under the worst possible combination of sensor faults.

Title: Four-Wheeled Dead-Reckoning Model Calibration using RTS Smoothing
Key Words: automobiles  calibration  inertial navigation  Kalman filters  mobile robots  navigation  path planning  remotely operated vehicles  sensor fusion  smoothing methods  state estimation  RTS smoothing  autonomous vehicles  accurate dead-reckoning system  car-like vehicles  complementary sensors  redundant sensors  wheel encoders  yaw rate gyro  steering wheel measurements  ground truth  smoothing scheme  smoothed estimates  model parameters  experimental vehicle  public roads  dead-reckoning drift  commonly used calibration method  dead reckoning system  four-wheeled dead-reckoning model calibration  complex maneuvers  public traffic  Wheels  Sensors  Smoothing methods  Global navigation satellite system  Calibration  Dead reckoning  Radio frequency 
Abstract: Localization is one of the main challenges to be addressed to develop autonomous vehicles able to perform complex maneuvers on roads opened to public traffic. Having an accurate dead-reckoning system is an essential step to reach this objective. This paper presents a dead-reckoning model for car-like vehicles that performs the data fusion of complementary and redundant sensors: wheel encoders, yaw rate gyro and steering wheel measurements. In order to get an accurate dead-reckoning system with a drift reduced to the minimum, the parameters have to be well calibrated and the procedure has to be simple and efficient. We present a method able to accurately calibrate the parameters without knowing the ground truth by using a Rauch-Tung-Striebel smoothing scheme which enables to obtain state estimates as close to the ground truth as possible. The smoothed estimates are then used within a optimization process to calibrate the model parameters. The method has been tested using data recorded from an experimental vehicle on public roads. The results show a significant diminution of the dead-reckoning drift compared to a commonly used calibration method. We evaluate finally the average distance a vehicle can navigate without exteroceptive sensors by using the proposed four-wheeled dead reckoning system.

Title: A Multi-Domain Feature Learning Method for Visual Place Recognition
Key Words: feature extraction  image recognition  learning (artificial intelligence)  mobile robots  object recognition  robot vision  computer vision  robotics applications  VPR methods  place recognition performance  environmental factors  end-to-end conditional visual place recognition method  multidomain feature learning method  feature detaching module  environmental condition-related features  feature learning pipeline  multiseason NORDLAND dataset  multiweather GTAV dataset  feature robustness  variant environmental conditions  Feature extraction  Entropy  Visualization  Task analysis  Decoding  Robots  Upper bound 
Abstract: Visual Place Recognition (VPR) is an important component in both computer vision and robotics applications, thanks to its ability to determine whether a place has been visited and where specifically. A major challenge in VPR is to handle changes of environmental conditions including weather, season and illumination. Most VPR methods try to improve the place recognition performance by ignoring the environmental factors, leading to decreased accuracy decreases when environmental conditions change significantly, such as day versus night. To this end, we propose an end-to-end conditional visual place recognition method. Specifically, we introduce the multi-domain feature learning method (MDFL) to capture multiple attribute-descriptions for a given place, and then use a feature detaching module to separate the environmental condition-related features from those that are not. The only label required within this feature learning pipeline is the environmental condition. Evaluation of the proposed method is conducted on the multi-season NORDLAND dataset, and the multi-weather GTAV dataset. Experimental results show that our method improves the feature robustness against variant environmental conditions.

Title: Event-based, Direct Camera Tracking from a Photometric 3D Map using Nonlinear Optimization
Key Words: cameras  image reconstruction  image sensors  maximum likelihood estimation  motion estimation  motion measurement  nonlinear programming  photometry  pose estimation  asynchronous sensors  low power consumption  photometric 3D map  classic dense 3D reconstruction algorithms  bioinspired vision sensors  video imaging  output pixel-level intensity  event-based direct camera tracking  nonlinear optimization  robot localization  AR-VR  6-DOF pose tracking  maximum-likelihood framework  event camera motion estimation  Cameras  Robot vision systems  Three-dimensional displays  Optimization 
Abstract: Event cameras are novel bio-inspired vision sensors that output pixel-level intensity changes, called “events”, instead of traditional video images. These asynchronous sensors naturally respond to motion in the scene with very low latency (microseconds) and have a very high dynamic range. These features, along with a very low power consumption, make event cameras an ideal sensor for fast robot localization and wearable applications, such as AR/VR and gaming. Considering these applications, we present a method to track the 6-DOF pose of an event camera in a known environment, which we contemplate to be described by a photometric 3D map (i.e., intensity plus depth information) built via classic dense 3D reconstruction algorithms. Our approach uses the raw events, directly, without intermediate features, within a maximum-likelihood framework to estimate the camera motion that best explains the events via a generative model. We successfully evaluate the method using both simulated and real data, and show improved results over the state of the art. We release the datasets to the public to foster reproducibility and research in this topic.

Title: Linear Heterogeneous Reconfiguration of Cubic Modular Robots via Simultaneous Tunneling and Permutation
Key Words: computational complexity  control engineering computing  distributed control  evolutionary computation  mobile robots  multi-robot systems  reconfigurable architectures  heterogeneous lattice modular robots  linear operation time cost  2×2×2 cubic meta-module-based connected robot structure  heterogeneous modular robots  linear heterogeneous reconfiguration  cubic modular robots  ordinary heterogeneous reconfiguration  linear homogeneous transformation  linear heterogeneous permutation  simultaneous tunneling and permutation  Tunneling  Computer aided software engineering  Cameras  Robot vision systems  Robot kinematics  Lattices 
Abstract: Reconfiguring heterogeneous modular robots in which all modules are not identical is much more time consuming than reconfiguring homogeneous ones, because ordinary heterogeneous reconfiguration is a combination of homogeneous transformation and heterogeneous permutation. While linear homogeneous transformation has been accomplished in previous research, linear heterogeneous permutation has not. This paper studies a reconfiguration algorithm for heterogeneous lattice modular robots with linear operation time cost. The algorithm is based on simultaneous tunneling and permutation, where a robot transforms its configuration via tunneling motion while permutation of each module's position is performed simultaneously during the tunneling transformation. To achieve this, we introduce the idea of a transparent meta-module that allows modules belonging to a meta-module to pass through the spaces occupied by other meta-modules. We prove the correctness and completeness of the proposed algorithm for a 2×2×2 cubic meta-module-based connected robot structure. We also show examples of the reconfiguration simulations of heterogeneous modular robots by the proposed algorithm.

Title: Autonomous Sheet Pile Driving Robots for Soil Stabilization
Key Words: construction equipment  construction industry  erosion  foundations  geotechnical engineering  hammers (machines)  mobile robots  soil  stability  autonomous sheet pile  soil stabilization  construction projects  environmental restoration projects  autonomous robot  continuous linear structures  vibratory hammer  hardware parameters  spray-based stabilizing agent  hydraulic erosion  Robots  Soil  Task analysis  Dams  Force  Actuators  Automation 
Abstract: Soil stabilization is a fundamental component of nearly all construction projects, ranging from commercial construction to environmental restoration projects. Previous work in autonomous construction has generally not considered these essential stabilization and anchoring tasks. In this work we present Romu, an autonomous robot capable of building continuous linear structures by using a vibratory hammer to drive interlocking sheet piles into soil. We report on hardware parameters and their effects on pile driving performance, and demonstrate autonomous operation in both controlled and natural environments. Finally, we present simulations in which a small swarm of robots build with sheet piles in example terrains, or apply an alternate spray-based stabilizing agent, and quantify the ability of each intervention to mitigate hydraulic erosion.

Title: ModQuad-Vi: A Vision-Based Self-Assembling Modular Quadrotor
Key Words: autonomous aerial vehicles  indoor radio  mobile robots  path planning  pose estimation  robot vision  self-assembly  relative pose estimation  local estimation  self-assembly process  external systems  ModQuad-Vi  flying modular robot  robot design  vision-based docking method  docking actions  aerial modular system  vision-based self-assembling modular quadrotor  temporary structures  indoor infrastructures  Robot kinematics  Acceleration  Rotors  Force  Trajectory  Navigation 
Abstract: Flying modular robots have the potential to rapidly form temporary structures. In the literature, docking actions rely on external systems and indoor infrastructures for relative pose estimation. In contrast to related work, we provide local estimation during the self-assembly process to avoid dependency on external systems. In this paper, we introduce ModQuad-Vi, a flying modular robot that is aimed to operate in outdoor environments. We propose a new robot design and vision-based docking method. Our design is based on a quadrotor platform with onboard computation and visual perception. Our control method is able to accurately align modules for docking actions. Additionally, we present the dynamics and a geometric controller for the aerial modular system. Experiments validate the vision-based docking method with successful results.

Title: Robotic endoscopy system (easyEndo) with a robotic arm mountable on a conventional endoscope
Key Words: biological tissues  biomechanics  endoscopes  manipulators  medical robotics  tissue traction  lesion  rubber band  robotic arm  flexible endoscope  robotic manipulations  intuitive hand-held controllers  solo-endoscopy  conventional endoscope  robotic endoscopy system  Endoscopes  Manipulators  Instruments  Medical services  Cameras  Gears 
Abstract: The use of flexible endoscope has been rising inconveniences. Steering of the distal section is not intuitive and the weight of the endoscope burdens a physical pressure on physicians who use it continuously for a long time. Also, the limited dexterity of an instrument makes therapeutic procedures more difficult, and further the unintended communications often occur during cooperation with assistants. These degrade the efficiency and thus increase the procedure time. In this paper, we propose a robotic endoscopy system (easyEndo) that can be mounted on a conventional endoscope and facilitate solo-endoscopy with two intuitive hand-held controllers. Furthermore, a robotic arm is presented that can be attached to the endoscope to assist with tissue traction. To validate the robotic endoscopy system, experiments to simulate biopsy and lesion marking were conducted with novices. The results showed that the robotic manipulations improved efficiency and reduced workload than manual manipulation. Subsequently, a prototype of the robotic arm was attached at the distal end of the endoscope, and the feasibility of tissue traction was confirmed by a simulation of pulling a rubber band.

Title: Design and Fabrication of Transformable Head Structures for Endoscopic Catheters*
Key Words: biomedical optical imaging  cameras  catheters  endoscopes  medical image processing  medical robotics  polymers  camera module  transformable catheter head structure  endoscopic catheter  laser micromachining  polymer catheter  Catheters  Head  Magnetic heads  Tools  Electron tubes  Polymers  Cameras 
Abstract: We present a transformable catheter head structure for endoscopic catheter allowing the simultaneous use of a camera module and a large tool channel introduced through a small incision. At the site of interest, the head with a camera can be expanded from the initial straight configuration, which opens a window for advancing a tool that is located behind the camera. Two different designs were proposed and prototyped. One option has flexure joints directly fabricated at the distal end of a polymer catheter by laser micro-machining, while another design employs a hinged metal head assembled at the tip of the same type of catheter. The kinematic behavior of each head was evaluated during the head-up and tip steering motions, and compared with each other to draw a selection guideline between them. Experimental results prove the feasibility of the proposed head structure for smarter endoscopic catheters.

Title: A Rolling-Tip Flexible Instrument for Minimally Invasive Surgery
Key Words: dexterous manipulators  end effectors  flexible manipulators  grippers  medical robotics  mobile robots  prototypes  surgery  rolling-tip flexible instrument  human body  end-effector  instrument prototype  in-place rolling motion  rolling-tip gripper  minimally invasive surgery  snake-like robots  tendons  6 degrees-of-freedom  dexterity  Tendons  Instruments  Grippers  Fasteners  Surgery  End effectors 
Abstract: Snake-like robots are commonly used in Minimally Invasive Surgery as they are able to reach areas deep inside the human body. These robots have instruments that are deployed out of the robot's head and controlled via tendons, which connect the instrument to motors at the proximal end. In most currently available systems the instruments are lacking a rolling motion of the end-effector.In this paper, we present a new instrument prototype for a snake-like robot that can perform a stable in-place rolling motion. The prototype has a diameter of 4mm, uses 13 tendons and has 6 degrees of freedom. The robot can bend and roll to high angles, and strongly improves the dexterity compared to an instrument without rolling capabilities. In the evaluation we show that the rolling-tip gripper can rotate about 165° and is capable of applying forces up to 6.5N.

Title: A Novel Laser Scalpel System for Computer-assisted Laser Surgery
Key Words: biomedical optical imaging  cameras  laser applications in medicine  medical computing  phantoms  radiation therapy  skin  surgery  planar phantoms  cylindrical phantoms  root-mean-square  carbon dioxide laser scalpel  laser scalpel system  3D extrinsic calibration method  3D triangulation sensor  superficial laser therapy applications  dermatological procedures  surgical procedures  computer-assisted laser surgery  sensor system  automated laser therapy  laser coordinate system  RGB-D camera frame  Three-dimensional displays  Lasers  Cameras  Calibration  Surgery  Measurement by laser beam  Color 
Abstract: Laser scalpels are utilized across a variety of surgical and dermatological procedures due to their precision and non-contact nature. This paper presents a novel laser scalpel system for superficial laser therapy applications. The system integrates a RGB-D camera, a 3D triangulation sensor and a carbon dioxide (CO2) laser scalpel for computer-assisted laser surgery. To accurately ablate targets chosen from the color image, a 3D extrinsic calibration method between the RGB-D camera frame and the laser coordinate system is implemented. The accuracy of the calibration method is tested on phantoms with planar and cylindrical surfaces. Positive error and negative error, as defined as undershooting and overshooting over the target area, are reported for each test. For 60 total test cases, the root-mean-square of the positive and negative error in both planar and cylindrical phantoms is less than 1.0 mm, with a maximum absolute error less than 2.0 mm. This work demonstrates the feasibility of automated laser therapy with surgeon oversight via our sensor system.

Title: Intent-Uncertainty-Aware Grasp Planning for Robust Robot Assistance in Telemanipulation
Key Words: dexterous manipulators  grippers  mobile robots  motion control  path planning  telerobotics  intent-uncertainty-aware grasp planning  robust robot assistance  robot agent  motion assistance  target approaching process  fine motion constraints  ambiguous human motion  robot hands  planning techniques  human motion input  multitask robot  intent-uncertainty-aware grasp planner  robust grasp  ambiguous human intent inference inputs  teleoperated robots  object manipulation task  Task analysis  Robots  Planning  Uncertainty  Handover  Grasping 
Abstract: Promoting a robot agent's autonomy level, which allows it to understand the human operator's intent and provide motion assistance to achieve it, has demonstrated great advantages to the operator's intent in teleoperation. However, the research has been limited to the target approaching process. We advance the shared control technique one step further to deal with the more challenging object manipulation task. Appropriately manipulating an object is challenging as it requires fine motion constraints for a certain manipulation task. Although these motion constraints are critical for task success, they are subtle to observe from ambiguous human motion. The disembodiment problem and physical discrepancy between the human and robot hands bring additional uncertainty, make the object manipulation task more challenging. Moreover, there is a lack of modeling and planning techniques that can effectively combine the human motion input and robot agent's motion input while accounting for the ambiguity of the human intent. To overcome this challenge, we built a multi-task robot grasping model and developed an intent-uncertainty-aware grasp planner to generate robust grasp poses given the ambiguous human intent inference inputs. With this validated modeling and planning techniques, it is expected to extend teleoperated robots' functionality and adoption in practical telemanipulation scenarios.

Title: Vision-based Teleoperation of Shadow Dexterous Hand using End-to-End Deep Neural Network
Key Words: dexterous manipulators  human-robot interaction  image classification  learning (artificial intelligence)  neurocontrollers  pose estimation  robot vision  telerobotics  TeachNet  Shadow dexterous hand  end-to-end deep neural network  intuitive vision-based teleoperation  markerless vision-based teleoperation  dexterous robotic hands  robot joint angles  human hand  visually similar robot hand  consistency loss function  human hands  human-robot training set  labeled depth images  simulated depth images  Shadow C6 robotic hand  pairwise depth images  vision-based teleoperation method  Training  Pose estimation  Three-dimensional displays  Neural networks  Robot sensing systems 
Abstract: In this paper, we present TeachNet, a novel neural network architecture for intuitive and markerless vision-based teleoperation of dexterous robotic hands. Robot joint angles are directly generated from depth images of the human hand that produce visually similar robot hand poses in an end-to-end fashion. The special structure of TeachNet, combined with a consistency loss function, handles the differences in appearance and anatomy between human and robotic hands. A synchronized human-robot training set is generated from an existing dataset of labeled depth images of the human hand and simulated depth images of a robotic hand. The final training set includes 400K pairwise depth images and joint angles of a Shadow C6 robotic hand. The network evaluation results verify the superiority of TeachNet, especially regarding the high-precision condition. Imitation experiments and grasp tasks teleoperated by novice users demonstrate that TeachNet is more reliable and faster than the state-of-the-art vision-based teleoperation method.

Title: An energy-shared two-layer approach for multi-master-multi-slave bilateral teleoperation systems
Key Words: delay systems  medical robotics  surgery  telerobotics  energy-shared two-layer approach  multimaster-multislave bilateral teleoperation systems  two-layer architecture  multiarms systems  communication delay  energy tank  single-master-single-slave two layer approach  passivity preservation  surgical scenario  Computer architecture  Surgery  Robot kinematics  Force  Delays  Communication channels 
Abstract: In this paper, a two-layer architecture for the bilateral teleoperation of multi-arms systems with communication delay is presented. We extend the single-master-single-slave two layer approach proposed in [1] by connecting multiple robots to a single energy tank. This allows to minimize the conservativeness due to passivity preservation and to increment the level of transparency that can be achieved. The proposed approach is implemented on a realistic surgical scenario developed within the EU-funded SARAS project.

Title: Passive Task-Prioritized Shared-Control Teleoperation with Haptic Guidance
Key Words: control engineering computing  haptic interfaces  telerobotics  passive task-prioritized shared-control teleoperation  robot teleoperation  teleoperator capabilities shared-control methods  passive task-prioritized shared-control method  redundant robots  task-prioritized control architecture  haptic guidance techniques  shared-control framework  semiautonomous telerobotic system safety  energy-tanks passivity-based controller  simulated slave robot  Task analysis  Haptic interfaces  Jacobian matrices  Manipulators  Robot kinematics  Couplings 
Abstract: Robot teleoperation is widely used for several hazardous applications. To increase teleoperator capabilities shared-control methods can be employed. In this paper, we present a passive task-prioritized shared-control method for remote telemanipulation of redundant robots. The proposed method fuses the task-prioritized control architecture with haptic guidance techniques to realize a shared-control framework for teleoperation systems. To preserve the semi-autonomous telerobotic system safety, passivity is analyzed and an energy-tanks passivity-based controller is developed. The proposed theoretical results are validated through experiments involving a real haptic device and a simulated slave robot.

Title: Quasi-Direct Drive for Low-Cost Compliant Robotic Manipulation
Key Words: control engineering computing  force control  manipulators  position control  telerobotics  user interfaces  virtual reality  QuasiDirect Drive actuation  robotic force-controlled manipulation  telepresence  Blue system  human environments  robot training demonstrations  7 degree of freedom arm  position-control bandwidth  virtual reality based interface  compliant robotic manipulation  mass 2.0 kg  frequency 7.5 Hz  size 4.0 mm  Manipulators  Payloads  Bandwidth  Robot sensing systems  Task analysis  Belts 
Abstract: Robots must cost less and be force-controlled to enable widespread, safe deployment in unconstrained human environments. We propose Quasi-Direct Drive actuation as a capable paradigm for robotic force-controlled manipulation in human environments at low-cost. Our prototype - Blue - is a human scale 7 Degree of Freedom arm with 2kg payload. Blue can cost less than $5000. We show that Blue has dynamic properties that meet or exceed the needs of human operators: the robot has a nominal position-control bandwidth of 7.5Hz and repeatability within 4mm. We demonstrate a Virtual Reality based interface that can be used as a method for telepresence and collecting robot training demonstrations. Manufacturability, scaling, and potential use-cases for the Blue system are also addressed. Videos and additional information can be found online at berkeleyopenarms.github.io.

Title: Augmented Reality Predictive Displays to Help Mitigate the Effects of Delayed Telesurgery
Key Words: augmented reality  medical computing  medical robotics  surgery  telemedicine  telerobotics  da Vinci surgical system  SARPD  augmented reality predictive displays  stereoscopic AR predictive display  predictive displays  visual feedback  teleoperated surgical robots  surgical environment  remote operator  remote telesurgery  Delays  Rendering (computer graphics)  Cameras  Stereo image processing  Real-time systems  Transforms  Robots 
Abstract: Surgical robots offer the exciting potential for remote telesurgery, but advances are needed to make this technology efficient and accurate to ensure patient safety. Achieving these goals is hindered by the deleterious effects of latency between the remote operator and the bedside robot. Predictive displays have found success in overcoming these effects by giving the operator immediate visual feedback. However, previously developed predictive displays can not be directly applied to telesurgery due to the unique challenges in tracking the 3D geometry of the surgical environment. In this paper, we present the first predictive display for teleoperated surgical robots. The predicted display is stereoscopic, utilizes Augmented Reality (AR) to show the predicted motions alongside the complex tissue found in-situ within surgical environments, and overcomes the challenges in accurately tracking slave-tools in real-time. We call this a Stereoscopic AR Predictive Display (SARPD). To test the SARPD's performance, we conducted a user study with ten participants on the da Vinci® Surgical System. The results showed with statistical significance that using SARPD decreased time to complete task while having no effect on error rates when operating under delay.

Title: Stability Optimization of Two-Fingered Anthropomorphic Hands for Precision Grasping with a Single Actuator
Key Words: actuators  biomechanics  dexterous manipulators  grippers  prosthetics  link length ratios  anthropomorphic design parameters  grasp planning applications  optimal configuration  heuristically evaluated optimal solutions  post-contact system work  upper limb prosthetic design  palm width  joint stiffness ratios  transmission ratios  post-contact stability  constrained optimization framework  single actuator  precision grasping  two-fingered anthropomorphic hands  stability optimization  Force  Grasping  Actuators  Tendons  Optimization  Stability criteria 
Abstract: In this paper, we present a constrained optimization framework for evaluating the post-contact stability of underactuated precision grasping configurations with a single degree of actuation. Relationships between key anthropomorphic design parameters including link length ratios, transmission ratios, joint stiffness ratios and palm width are developed with applications in upper limb prosthetic design. In addition to grasp stability, we examine post-contact system work, to reduce reconfiguration, and consider the range of objects that can be stably grasped. External wrenches were simulated on a subset of the heuristically evaluated optimal solutions and an optimal configuration was experimentally tested to determine favorable wrench resistible gripper orientations for grasp planning applications.

Title: A new Approach for an Adaptive Linear Quadratic Regulated Motion Cueing Algorithm for an 8 DoF Full Motion Driving Simulator
Key Words: linear quadratic control  minimisation  motion control  road vehicles  vehicle dynamics  8 DoF full motion driving simulator  Stuttgart Driving Simulator  state-flow chart  kinematic vehicle movements  motion driving simulator  adaptive motion cueing algorithm  adaptive linear quadratic regulated motion cueing algorithm  linear quadratic error minimization  Acceleration  Switches  Vehicles  Heuristic algorithms  Vehicle dynamics  Kinematics 
Abstract: In this contribution, a new adaptive motion cueing algorithm for a full motion driving simulator at the University of Stuttgart is presented, which allows kinematic vehicle movements to be taken into account. These are adequately processed via a state-flow chart and transferred to the motion cueing algorithm in such a way that the dynamic of the Stuttgart Driving Simulator can be used much more efficiently. Furthermore, a linear quadratic error minimization of the mentioned algorithm is presented. The primary objective is to provide a more realistic driving experience to the driver.

Title: Singularity of Cable-Driven Parallel Robot With Sagging Cables: Preliminary Investigation
Key Words: cables (mechanical)  manipulator kinematics  cable-driven parallel robot  sagging cables  singularity analysis  CDPR  Irvine model  cable model representation singularity  singularity type  IK singularity  parallel robot singularity  inverse kinematics  forward kinematics  rigid legs  Parallel robots  Mathematical model  Kinematics  Zirconium  Legged locomotion  End effectors  parallel robot cable-driven parallel robot  singularity 
Abstract: This paper addresses for the first time the singularity analysis of cable-driven parallel robot (CDPR) with sagging cables using the Irvine model. We present the mathematical framework of singularity analysis of CDPR using this cable model. We then show that, besides a cable model representation singularity, both the inverse and forward kinematics (IK and FK) have a singularity type, called parallel robot singularity, which correspond to the singularity of an equivalent parallel robot with rigid legs. We then show that both the IK and FK have also full singularities, that are not parallel robot singularity and are obtained when two of the IK or FK solution branches intersect. IK singularity will usually lie on the border of the CDPR workspace. We then exhibit an algorithm that allow one to prove that a singularity exist in the neighborhood of a given pose and to estimate its location with an arbitrary accuracy. Examples are provided for parallel robot, IK and FK singularities. However we have not been able to determine examples of combined singularity where both the IK and FK are singular (besides parallel robot singularity).

Title: A defect identification approach of operations for the driving element of multi-duty parallel manipulators
Key Words: end effectors  fasteners  force control  industrial manipulators  machining  defect identification approach  driving element  multiduty parallel manipulators  heavy-load  1PU+3UPS parallel manipulator  machining efficiency improvement  Force  Indexes  Machining  Fasteners  Manipulator dynamics  Dynamics 
Abstract: In order to improve the machining efficiency and the flexibility of manufacturing system, the study of multi-duty parallel manipulators has attracted the interest of some researchers. In this paper, according to the effects of different operations on the driving element, a demarcation diagram for distinguishing different duties, such as statics, low-speed but heavy-load, high-speed but low-load and high-speed but heavy-load, is proposed, and a defect identification approach to prevent the occurrence of defects for multi-duty parallel manipulators is presented. Taking the 1PU+3UPS parallel manipulator as an instance, an analysis method to the statics and dynamics is investigated by means of the screw theory and the proposed virtual screw. Based on the numerical example, the results show that the classification and practicability of operations can be accurately identified by the proposed demarcation diagram and defect identification approach, respectively.

Title: Active Damping of Parallel Robots Driven by Flexible Cables Using Cold-Gas Thrusters
Key Words: cables (mechanical)  damping  flexible manipulators  manipulator dynamics  supersonic flow  planar robot  custom-built supersonic air thrusters  active damping  cold-gas thrusters  flexible cable-driven parallel robots  industry-standard pressure level  Attitude control  Vibrations  End effectors  Valves  Damping  Bars 
Abstract: This work is a preliminary study assessing the feasibility of using cold-gas thrusters for active damping of flexible cable-driven parallel robots. The concept is validated experimentally on a planar robot embedding custom-built supersonic air thrusters operating at an industry-standard pressure level.

Title: Exploiting Human and Robot Muscle Synergies for Human-in-the-loop Optimization of EMG-based Assistive Strategies
Key Words: artificial limbs  biomechanics  electromyography  medical robotics  motion control  optimisation  robot muscle synergies  EMG-based assistive strategies  exoskeleton robot control  Electromyography-based assistive strategies  multiple EMG channels  multiDoF robots  optimization process  human muscles  pneumatic artificial muscle contractions  Bayesian optimization method  human movements  PAMs-driven upper-limb exoskeleton robot  human-in-theloop optimization  human-in-the-loop optimization approach  Muscles  Robots  Optimization  Exoskeletons  Electromyography  Bayes methods  Pneumatic systems 
Abstract: In this study, we propose a novel human-in-the-loop optimization approach for exoskeleton robot control. We develop a method to optimize widely-used Electromyography (EMG)-based assistive strategies. If we use multiple EMG channels to control multi-DoF robots, optimization process becomes complex and requires a large amount of data. To make the optimization tractable, we exploit the synergies both of the human muscles and artificial muscles of the exoskeleton robots to reduce the number of parameters of the assistive strategies. We show that we can extract the synergies not only from the user's muscle activities but from pneumatic artificial muscle (PAMs) contractions of the exoskeleton robot. Then, we adopt a Bayesian optimization method to acquire the parameters for assisting human movements by iteratively identifying the user's preferences of the assistive strategies. We conducted experiments to evaluate our proposed method with a PAMs-driven upper-limb exoskeleton robot. Our method successfully learned assistive strategies from the human-in-theloop optimization with a practicable number of interactions.

Title: Development of a Low Inertia Parallel Actuated Shoulder Exoskeleton Robot for the Characterization of Neuromuscular Property during Static Posture and Dynamic Movement
Key Words: actuators  biomechanics  human-robot interaction  manipulator kinematics  medical robotics  patient rehabilitation  low inertia parallel actuated shoulder exoskeleton robot  neuromuscular property  dynamic movement  intrinsic mechanisms  reflexive mechanisms  voluntary mechanism  shoulder control  upper limb performance  physical human-robot interaction  spherical parallel manipulator  control roll  parallel architecture  speed requirement  4B-SPM exoskeleton  neuromuscular mechanisms  shoulder joint  neuromuscular properties  Shoulder  Exoskeletons  Servomotors  Robots  Neuromuscular  Prototypes  Impedance 
Abstract: The purpose of this work is to introduce a newly developed exoskeleton robot designed to characterize the neuromuscular properties of the shoulder, including intrinsic and reflexive mechanisms, during static posture and dynamic movement in a 3-dimensional space. Quantitative characterization of these properties requires fast perturbation (>100°/s) to separate their contribution from that of voluntary mechanism. Understanding these properties of the shoulder control could assist in the rehabilitation or enhancement of upper limb performance during physical human-robot interaction. The device can be described as a new type of spherical parallel manipulator (SPM) that utilizes three 4-bar (4B) substructures to decouple and control roll, pitch and yaw of the shoulder. By utilizing a parallel architecture, the 4BSPM exoskeleton has the advantage of high acceleration, fast enough to satisfy the speed requirement for the characterization of distinct neuromuscular properties of the shoulder. In this work, the prototype is presented, along with an evaluation of its position accuracy and step response. The development and preliminary testing of the 4B-SPM exoskeleton presented in this work demonstrates its potential to be a useful tool for studying the neuromuscular mechanisms of the shoulder joint.

Title: Effort Estimation in Robot-aided Training with a Neural Network
Key Words: biomechanics  medical robotics  motion control  muscle  neurocontrollers  patient rehabilitation  patient treatment  robot dynamics  robot kinematics  robust control  torque control  wearable robots  effort estimation  robot-aided training  neural network  robotic exoskeletons  post-stroke rehabilitation  sensorimotor impairments  variable assistance  movement execution  movement quality  individualized treatment  kinematic guidance  robotic assistance  voluntary effort  active torques  unmodeled dynamics  passive neuromuscular properties  involuntary forces  muscle activity  high resolution assessment tool  therapy tasks  robustness  Harmony upper-body exoskeleton  motor recovery evaluation  Robot sensing systems  Torque  Shoulder  Muscles  Exoskeletons  Dynamics 
Abstract: Robotic exoskeletons open up promising interventions during post-stroke rehabilitation by assisting individuals with sensorimotor impairments to complete therapy tasks. These devices have the ability to provide variable assistance tailored to individual-specific needs and, additionally, can measure several parameters associated with the movement execution. Metrics representative of movement quality are important to guide individualized treatment. While robots can provide data with high resolution, robustness, and consistency, the delineation of the human contribution in the presence of the kinematic guidance introduced by the robotic assistance is a significant challenge. In this paper, we propose a method for assessing voluntary effort from an individual fitted in an upper-body exoskeleton called Harmony. The method separates the active torques generated by the wearer from the effects caused by unmodeled dynamics and passive neuromuscular properties and involuntary forces. Preliminary results show that the effort estimated using the proposed method is consistent with the effort associated with muscle activity and is also sensitive to different levels, indicating that it can reliably evaluate user's contribution to movement. This method has the potential to serve as a high resolution assessment tool to monitor progress of movement quality throughout the treatment and evaluate motor recovery.

Title: Characterizing Architectures of Soft Pneumatic Actuators for a Cable-Driven Shoulder Exoskeleton
Key Words: biomechanics  cables (mechanical)  elastomers  medical robotics  patient rehabilitation  pneumatic actuators  wearable robots  architectures characterization  wearable robots  fiber-reinforced elastomeric enclosures  FREEs  shoulder flexion  force-displacement curves  cable anchor movement  Bowden cables  nested linear architecture  pennate architectures  cable-driven shoulder exoskeleton  soft pneumatic actuators  Shoulder  Actuators  Force  Exoskeletons  Cable shielding  Torque  Prototypes 
Abstract: Low weight and innate compliance make soft pneumatic actuators an attractive method for actuating wearable robots. Performance of soft pneumatic actuators can be tailored to an application by combining them in novel architectures. We modeled and constructed nested linear and pennate architectures using fiber-reinforced elastomeric enclosures (FREEs) with identical manufacturing parameters and total effective lengths to compare their suitability for a cable-driven exoskeleton for augmenting shoulder flexion. We determined actuator performance requirements using a static model for the transmission of actuator forces to the upper arm via Bowden cables. We experimentally characterized the architectures by measuring their force-displacement curves at a range of pressures, yielding greater force and displacement from the nested architecture in the domain required by our exoskeleton. Results also indicated a force threshold above which the pennate structure produced greater force at any given displacement. We validated the nested linear architecture using a prototype exoskeleton installed on a passive mannequin. Measured joint angles at varying pressures were close to predicted values, adjusted for measured losses due to cable anchor movement.

Title: Design and Implementation of a Two-DOF Robotic System with an Adjustable Force Limiting Mechanism for Ankle Rehabilitation
Key Words: end effectors  friction  manipulator dynamics  medical robotics  mobile robots  patient rehabilitation  patient treatment  lower-limb rehabilitation robot  mechanical adjustment  design procedure  adjustable force limiting mechanism  light-weight back-drivable inherently-safe robotic mechanism  ankle rehabilitation therapies  ankle module  mathematical modeling  experimental validations  two-DOF robotic system  friction-based safety feature  Robots  Wheels  Force  Torque  Medical treatment  Safety  Training 
Abstract: This paper presents a novel light-weight back-drivable inherently-safe robotic mechanism for delivering ankle rehabilitation therapies. The robot is designed to be used as the ankle module of a multi-purpose lower-limb rehabilitation robot. A novel friction-based safety feature has been introduced that enables mechanical adjustment of the maximum amount of allowable transfer forces and torques to the patient's limb. The design procedure, mathematical modeling and experimental validations are provided to demonstrate the performance of the proposed system.

Title: Rorg: Service Robot Software Management with Linux Containers
Key Words: cloud computing  control engineering computing  Linux  mobile robots  object-oriented programming  scheduling  service robots  Linux container-based scheme  monitor software components  service robots  Linux containers  service robot systems  resource constraints  programmable container management interface  resource time-sharing mechanism  Rorg  resource contention  long-term autonomous tour guide robot  robot software system  software processes  software components  computer resources  service robot software management  robot operating system  Containers  Software  Linux  Service robots  Data centers  Monitoring 
Abstract: Scaling up the software system on service robots increases the maintenance burden of developers and the risk of resource contention of the computer embedded on robots. As a result, developers spend much time on configuring, deploying, and monitoring the robot software system; robots may utilize significant computer resources when all software processes are running. We present Rorg, a Linux container-based scheme to manage, schedule, and monitor software components on service robots. Although Linux containers are already widely-used in cloud environments, this technique is challenging to efficiently adopt in service robot systems due to multi-tasking, resource constraints and performance requirements. To pave the way of Linux containers on service robots in an efficient manner, we present a programmable container management interface and a resource time-sharing mechanism incorporated with the Robot Operating System (ROS). Rorg allows developers to pack software into self-contained images and runs them in isolated environments using Linux containers; it also allows the robot to turn on and off software components on demand to avoid resource contention. We evaluate Rorg with a long-term autonomous tour guide robot: It manages 41 software components on the robot and relieved our maintenance burden, and it also reduces CPU load by 45.5% and memory usage by 16.5% on average.

Title: CartesI/O: A ROS Based Real-Time Capable Cartesian Control Framework
Key Words: control engineering computing  humanoid robots  legged locomotion  motion control  robot dynamics  robot kinematics  telerobotics  robotics platforms  simple auto-generated ROS-based interface  motion control frameworks  ROS MoveIt  Cartesian trajectories  locomotion tasks  COMAN + humanoid robot  redundant robots  motion tasks  multilegged highly redundant robots  Cartesian control framework  Task analysis  Robot kinematics  Real-time systems  Libraries  C++ languages  Planning 
Abstract: This work introduces a framework for the Cartesian control of multi-legged, highly redundant robots. The proposed framework allows the untrained user to perform complex motion tasks with robotics platforms by leveraging a simple, auto-generated ROS-based interface. Contrary to other motion control frameworks (e.g. ROS MoveIt!), we focus on the execution of Cartesian trajectories that are specified online, rather than planned in advance, as it is the case, for instance, in tele-operation and locomotion tasks. Moreover, we address the problem of generating such motions within a hard real-time (RT) control loop. Finally, we demonstrate the capabilities of our framework both on the COMAN + humanoid robot, and on the hybrid wheeled-legged quadruped CENTAURO.

Title: Synthesis of Real-Time Observers from Past-Time Linear Temporal Logic and Timed Specification
Key Words: fault tolerant control  mobile robots  observers  specification languages  temporal logic  timed specification  fault-tolerant architectures  autonomous robots  robot developers  specification language  real-time evaluation  real-time observers  past-time linear temporal logic  past-time LTL  software components  mission patrolling  Observers  Monitoring  Real-time systems  Robot sensing systems  Timing  Safety 
Abstract: Fault-tolerant architectures are mandatory to ensure the robustness of autonomous robots performing missions in complex and uncertain environments. The first step of a fault-tolerant mechanism is the detection of a faulty behavior of the system. It is then important to provide tools to help robot developers specify relevant observers. It is moreover crucial to guarantee a correct implementation of the observers, i.e. that the observers do not miss data and do not trigger unsuitable recovery actions in case of false detection. In this paper, we propose a specification language for observers that uses Past-Time LTL to express complex formulas on data produced by software components, and timed constraints on the evaluations of these formulas. We moreover provide an implementation of this specification that guarantees a real-time evaluation of the observers. We briefly describe the observers we have specified for a patrolling mission, and we evaluate the performance of our approach compared to state of the art on a benchmark in which we detect errors on a laser range sensor.

Title: Julia for robotics: simulation and real-time control in a high-level programming language
Key Words: computer simulation  control engineering computing  high level languages  humanoid robots  programming languages  quadratic programming  robot dynamics  robot programming  real-time control  high-level programming language  robotics applications  two-language problem  performance-sensitive components  high-level language  software complexity  Julia programming language  online control  Julia packages  Boston Dynamics Atlas humanoid robot  quadratic-programming-based controller  Robots  Libraries  Software packages  C++ languages  Productivity  Resource management 
Abstract: Robotics applications often suffer from the `two-language problem', requiring a low-level language for performance-sensitive components and a high-level language for interactivity and experimentation, which tends to increase software complexity. We demonstrate the use of the Julia programming language to solve this problem by being fast enough for online control of a humanoid robot and flexible enough for prototyping. We present several Julia packages developed by the authors, which together enable roughly 2× realtime simulation of the Boston Dynamics Atlas humanoid robot balancing on flat ground using a quadratic-programming-based controller. Benchmarks show a sufficiently low variation in control frequency to make deployment on the physical robot feasible. We also show that Julia's naturally generic programming style results in versatile packages that are easy to compose and adapt to a wide variety of computational tasks in robotics.

Title: Motion Planning Templates: A Motion Planning Framework for Robots with Low-power CPUs
Key Words: control engineering computing  data structures  graph theory  humanoid robots  mobile robots  path planning  low-power CPU  template-based library  compile-time polymorphism  robot-specific motion planning code  robot software  motion planning problem  general motion planning implementations  motion planning graph  compile-time algorithms  motion planning scenarios  humanoid robot  3D rigid-body motions  motion planning framework  MPT  motion planning templates  Planning  Runtime  C++ languages  Libraries  Data structures  Mobile robots 
Abstract: Motion Planning Templates (MPT) is a C++ template-based library that uses compile-time polymorphism to generate robot-specific motion planning code and is geared towards eking out as much performance as possible when running on the low-power CPU of a battery-powered small robot. To use MPT, developers of robot software write or leverage code specific to their robot platform and motion planning problem, and then have MPT generate a robot-specific motion planner and its associated data-structures. The resulting motion planner implementation is faster and uses less memory than general motion planning implementations based upon runtime polymorphism. While MPT loses runtime flexibility, it gains advantages associated with compile-time polymorphism- including the ability to change scalar precision, generate tightly-packed data structures, and store robot-specific data in the motion planning graph. MPT also uses compile-time algorithms to resolve the algorithm implementation, and select the best nearest neighbor algorithm to integrate into it. We demonstrate MPT's performance, lower memory footprint, and ability to adapt to varying robots in motion planning scenarios on a small humanoid robot and on 3D rigid-body motions.

Title: Distortion-free Robotic Surface-drawing using Conformal Mapping
Key Words: computational geometry  computer graphics  conformal mapping  distance measurement  image reconstruction  least squares approximations  manipulators  mobile robots  solid modelling  distortion-free robotic surface-drawing  robotic pen-drawing system  unknown surface  robotic system  seven-degree-of freedom manipulator  continuous surface  physical canvas surface  point-cloud estimation  drawing surface  2D vector pen art  surface parameterization  squares conformal mapping  complicated pen drawings  general surfaces  impedance-control  digital drawing  2D drawing  Surface impedance  Three-dimensional displays  Robot kinematics  Two dimensional displays  Service robots  Surface reconstruction 
Abstract: We present a robotic pen-drawing system that is capable of faithfully reproducing pen art on an unknown surface. Our robotic system relies on an industrial, seven-degree-of freedom manipulator that can be both position- and impedance-controlled. In order to estimate a rough geometry of the target, continuous surface, we first generate a point cloud of the surface using an RGB-D camera, which is filtered to remove outliers and calibrated to the physical canvas surface. Then, our control algorithm physically reproduces digital drawing on the surface by impedance-controlling the manipulator. Our impedance-controlled drawing algorithm compensates for the uncertainty and incompleteness inherent to a point-cloud estimation of the drawing surface. Moreover, since drawing 2D vector pen art on a 3D surface requires surface parameterization that does not destroy the original 2D drawing, we rely on the least squares conformal mapping. Specifically, the conformal map reduces angle distortion during surface parameterization. As a result, our system can create distortion-free and complicated pen drawings on general surfaces with many unpredictable bumps robustly and faithfully.

Title: Automated Cell Patterning System with a Microchip using Dielectrophoresis
Key Words: bioelectric phenomena  biological techniques  cellular biophysics  electrophoresis  lab-on-a-chip  microorganisms  dielectrophoresis  automatic method  6-aminohexanoic acid  yeast cells  cell-printing microchip  large-scale cell patterns  cell-based assay  patterning cells  automated cell patterning system  Integrated circuits  Substrates  Electrodes  Microscopy  Force  Lenses  Glass 
Abstract: The ability to patterning cells is an important technique to facilitate cell-based assay and characterization. In this paper, an automated cell patterning system was developed for the fabrication of large-scale cell patterns. To resolve the challenge of the limited printable area, the cell-printing microchip and the substrate were mounted on the movable stages of the system, and large-scale cell patterns were realized through coordination between the stages. An autofocusing technique was integrated in the system to evaluate the gap between the microchip and the substrate. In order to enhance the performance of the patterning system, different experimental parameters, including the velocity of the moving stage, were examined. Yeast cells suspending in 6-aminohexanoic acid (AHA) solution were considered in this study, and a sequence of characters was successfully printed using the proposed system. The results confirm that this system offers an automatic method with high flexibility to construct large-scale cell patterns for various applications.

Title: Mobile Robotic Painting of Texture
Key Words: image colour analysis  image reconstruction  image texture  learning (artificial intelligence)  mobile robots  neural nets  painting  spraying  mobile robotic painting  mobile robots  robotic paint delivery systems  spray painting  painting tasks  image texture  robotic paint commands  deep learning approach  appearance reconstruction  Painting  Robots  Paints  Ink  Atmospheric modeling  Spraying 
Abstract: Robotic painting is well-established in controlled factory environments, but there is now potential for mobile robots to do functional painting tasks around the everyday world. An obvious first target for such robots is painting a uniform single color. A step further is the painting of textured images. Texture involves a varying appearance, and requires that paint is delivered accurately onto the physical surface to produce the desired effect. Robotic painting of texture is relevant for architecture and in themed environments. A key challenge for robotic painting of texture is to take a desired image as input, and to generate the paint commands to as closely as possible create the desired appearance, according to the robotic capabilities. This paper describes a deep learning approach to take an input ink map of a desired texture, and infer robotic paint commands to produce that texture. We analyze the trade-offs between quality of reconstructed appearance and ease of execution. Our method is general for different kinds of robotic paint delivery systems, but the emphasis here is on spray painting. More generally, the framework can be viewed as an approach for solving a specific class of inverse imaging problems.

Title: Detecting Invasive Insects with Unmanned Aerial Vehicles
Key Words: agriculture  autonomous aerial vehicles  cameras  computer vision  mobile robots  pest control  robot vision  mark-release-recapture technique  invasive insect species migration patterns  unmanned aerial vehicles  computer vision algorithms  invasive insects detection  agriculture  Insects  Cameras  Unmanned aerial vehicles  Image color analysis  Data acquisition  Pipelines  Agriculture 
Abstract: A key aspect to controlling and reducing the effects invasive insect species have on agriculture is to obtain knowledge about the migration patterns of these species. Current state-of-the-art methods of studying these migration patterns involve a mark-release-recapture technique, in which insects are released after being marked and researchers attempt to recapture them later. However, this approach involves a human researcher manually searching for these insects in large fields and results in very low recapture rates. In this paper, we propose an automated system for detecting released insects using an unmanned aerial vehicle. This system utilizes ultraviolet lighting technology, digital cameras, and lightweight computer vision algorithms to more quickly and accurately detect insects compared to the current state of the art. The efficiency and accuracy that this system provides will allow for a more comprehensive understanding of invasive insect species migration patterns. Our experimental results demonstrate that our system can detect real target insects in field conditions with high precision and recall rates.

Title: Robust Object-based SLAM for High-speed Autonomous Navigation
Key Words: cameras  helicopters  image sequences  image texture  mobile robots  object detection  path planning  robot vision  SLAM (robots)  ROSHAN  object-level mapping  ellipsoid-based SLAM  object surface  autonomous quadrotor  bounding box detections  median shape error  forward-moving camera sequence  planar constraint  vehicle motions  semantic knowledge  robust object-based SLAM for high-speed autonomous navigation  Ellipsoids  Image edge detection  Semantics  Simultaneous localization and mapping  Cameras  Shape  Shape measurement 
Abstract: We present Robust Object-based SLAM for High-speed Autonomous Navigation (ROSHAN), a novel approach to object-level mapping suitable for autonomous navigation. In ROSHAN, we represent objects as ellipsoids and infer their parameters using three sources of information - bounding box detections, image texture, and semantic knowledge - to overcome the observability problem in ellipsoid-based SLAM under common forward-translating vehicle motions. Each bounding box provides four planar constraints on an object surface and we add a fifth planar constraint using the texture on the objects along with a semantic prior on the shape of ellipsoids. We demonstrate ROSHAN in simulation where we outperform the baseline, reducing the median shape error by 83% and the median position error by 72% in a forward-moving camera sequence. We demonstrate similar qualitative result on data collected on a fast-moving autonomous quadrotor.

Title: A Fault Diagnosis Framework for MAVLink-Enabled UAVs Using Structural Analysis
Key Words: aerospace components  aircraft control  autonomous aerial vehicles  fault diagnosis  telemetry  MAVLink-enabled UAVs  fixed-wing UAVs  MAVLink telemetry streams  residual generators  observable faults  FDI system  isolability analyses  real-life telemetry log  UAV crash  fault diagnosis framework  structural analysis  message protocol  unmanned aerial vehicles  fault detection and isolation framework  Mathematical model  Atmospheric modeling  Generators  Fault diagnosis  Telemetry  Batteries  Unmanned aerial vehicles 
Abstract: MAVLink is a popular message protocol for small Unmanned Aerial Vehicles (UAVs). In this work, we present a Fault Detection and Isolation (FDI) framework for fixed-wing UAVs which takes advantage of the information conveyed in MAVLink telemetry streams and produces a bank of residual generators. Structural Analysis is employed to systematically handle the varying set of available measurements, identify the observable faults and adjust the FDI system accordingly. Structural detectability and isolability analyses are carried out. A case-study on a real-life telemetry log of a UAV crash demonstrates the efficacy of the proposed approach.

Title: Real-Time Minimum Snap Trajectory Generation for Quadcopters: Algorithm Speed-up Through Machine Learning
Key Words: computational complexity  control engineering computing  gradient methods  helicopters  iterative methods  learning (artificial intelligence)  neurocontrollers  trajectory control  human-machine interface  gradient descent method  supervised neural network  computational time  machine learning  quadcopter  iterative methods  real-time minimum snap trajectory generation  smart-tablet interface  Trajectory  Resource management  Real-time systems  Neural networks  Acceleration  Quadratic programming  Nonlinear optics 
Abstract: This paper addresses the problem of generating quadcopter minimum snap trajectories for real time applications. Previous efforts addressed this problem by either employing a gradient descent method, or by greatly sacrificing optimality for faster solutions that are amenable for onboard implementation. In this work, outputs of the gradient descent method are used offline to train a supervised neural network. We show that the use of neural networks results typically in two orders of magnitude reduction in computational time. Our proposed approach can be used for warm-starting onboard implementable iterative methods with an “educated ” initial guess. This work is motivated by the application for human-machine interface in which a human provides desired trajectory through a smart-tablet interface, which has to be translated into a dynamically feasible trajectory for a quadcopter. The proposed solution is tested in thousands of different examples, demonstrating its effectiveness as a booster for minimum snap trajectory generation for quadcopters.

Title: Beauty and the Beast: Optimal Methods Meet Learning for Drone Racing
Key Words: autonomous aerial vehicles  collision avoidance  Kalman filters  learning (artificial intelligence)  mobile robots  navigation  optimisation  predictive control  state estimation  robust flight  previously-unseen race tracks  optimal methods  fast maneuvers  agile maneuvers  dynamic environments  imperfect sensing  state estimation drift  human pilots  unseen track  practice runs  state-of-the-art autonomous navigation algorithms  precise metric map  training data  unseen environment  precise map  expensive data collection  global track layout  coarse gate locations  single demonstration flight  convolutional network  closest gates  extended Kalman filter  maximum-a-posteriori estimates  high-variance estimates  poor observability  visible gates  estimated gate poses  model predictive control  agile flight  autonomous microaerial vehicles  autonomous drone racing  IROS 2018 autonomous drone race competition  Logic gates  Drones  Navigation  Training data  Current measurement  Layout  Uncertainty 
Abstract: Autonomous micro aerial vehicles still struggle with fast and agile maneuvers, dynamic environments, imperfect sensing, and state estimation drift. Autonomous drone racing brings these challenges to the fore. Human pilots can fly a previously unseen track after a handful of practice runs. In contrast, state-of-the-art autonomous navigation algorithms require either a precise metric map of the environment or a large amount of training data collected in the track of interest. To bridge this gap, we propose an approach that can fly a new track in a previously unseen environment without a precise map or expensive data collection. Our approach represents the global track layout with coarse gate locations, which can be easily estimated from a single demonstration flight. At test time, a convolutional network predicts the poses of the closest gates along with their uncertainty. These predictions are incorporated by an extended Kalman filter to maintain optimal maximum-a-posteriori estimates of gate locations. This allows the framework to cope with misleading high-variance estimates that could stem from poor observability or lack of visible gates. Given the estimated gate poses, we use model predictive control to quickly and accurately navigate through the track. We conduct extensive experiments in the physical world, demonstrating agile and robust flight through complex and diverse previously-unseen race tracks. The presented approach was used to win the IROS 2018 Autonomous Drone Race Competition, outracing the second-placing team by a factor of two.

Title: Detection and Reconstruction of Wires Using Cameras for Aircraft Safety Systems
Key Words: aerospace computing  aerospace safety  aircraft  convolutional neural nets  feature extraction  hazards  image reconstruction  image segmentation  neural net architecture  object detection  real-time systems  cameras  aircraft safety systems  free hanging wires  wire obstacles  neural network architecture  Deep Wire CNN  wire line segments  wire reconstruction  real-time detections  wire hazards  wire detection  Wires  Image reconstruction  Cameras  Detectors  Image resolution  Agriculture  Three-dimensional displays 
Abstract: We extend the ability of cameras to perceive obstacles for aircraft safety systems by enabling 3d sensing of free hanging wires. Our algorithm exploits the specialized 2d and 3d structure of wires to exceed state of the art performance in 2d sensing and 3d location estimation of wire obstacles. In 2d, a new neural network architecture, Deep Wire CNN, directly predicts the location of wire line segments in the image. In 3d, the detections are tracked and triangulated as the aircraft flies in order to estimate the wire's location. Our triangulation uses a new formulation of wire reconstruction as the estimation of the wire's vertical plane. Together these advancements enable real-time detections of wire hazards at ranges of over 1km. The system performance is evaluated on prior image level wire detection datasets and we introduce a new public dataset in order to evaluate full system results on over 40 approaches to power lines from a manned helicopter.

Title: Pose and Posture Estimation of Aerial Skeleton Systems for Outdoor Flying
Key Words: Kalman filters  pose estimation  satellite navigation  outdoor flying  posture estimation framework  system modular  GNSS module  global navigation satellite system  EKF estimates  three-link aerial skeleton system  inertial measurement unit  extended Kalman filtering  Skeleton  Estimation  Kinematics  Global navigation satellite system  Rotors  Kalman filters  Force 
Abstract: We present a novel pose and posture estimation framework of aerial skeleton system for outdoor flying. To exploit redundant/independent sensing while rendering the system “modular”, we attach an IMU (inertial measurement unit) sensor and a GNSS (global navigation satellite system) module on each link and perform SE(3)-motion EKF (extended Kalman filtering). We then apply the kinematic constraints of the aerial skeleton system to these EKF estimates of all the links through SCKF (smoothly constrained Kalman filtering), thereby, enforcing the kinematic coherency of the skeleton system and, consequently, significantly enhancing the estimation accuracy and the control performance/stability of the aerial skeleton system. A semi-distributed version of the obtained estimation framework is also presented to address the issue of scalability. The theory is then verified/demonstrated with real outdoor flying experiments and simulation studies of a three-link aerial skeleton system.

Title: Flight Testing Boustrophedon Coverage Path Planning for Fixed Wing UAVs in Wind
Key Words: aerospace components  autonomous aerial vehicles  mobile robots  path planning  remotely operated vehicles  wind  flight test results  model prediction  multirotor UAV  boustrophedon coverage path planning  flight path  aerial surveys  complex concave agricultural fields  flight time  wind prediction model  cost function  wind field measurements  fixed wing UAV  Wind  Aircraft  Robot sensing systems  Mathematical model  Atmospheric modeling  Path planning  Predictive models  Aerial Surveying  Coverage Path Planning  Remote Sensing  Boustrophedon paths  Wind  Trochoids 
Abstract: A method was previously developed by this author to optimise the flight path of a fixed wing UAV performing aerial surveys of complex concave agricultural fields. This relies heavily on a flight time in wind prediction model as its cost function. This paper aims to validate this model by comparing flight test results with the model prediction. There are a number of assumptions that this model relies on. The major assumption is that wind is steady and uniform over the small area and time scales involved in a survey. To show that this is reasonable, wind fields measurements will be taken from a multi rotor UAV with an ultrasonic windspeed sensor.

Title: Obstacle-aware Adaptive Informative Path Planning for UAV-based Target Search
Key Words: aircraft control  autonomous aerial vehicles  collision avoidance  Gaussian processes  mobile robots  object detection  robot vision  target occupancy  UAV-based target search  Gaussian process based model  flight time constraints  planning strategy  obstacle-aware adaptive informative path planning algorithm  target detection  unmanned aerial vehicles  collision avoidance  Planning  Search problems  Three-dimensional displays  Optimization  Trajectory  Unmanned aerial vehicles  Robot sensing systems 
Abstract: Target search with unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs) is relevant problem to many scenarios, e.g., search and rescue (SaR). However, a key challenge is planning paths for maximal search efficiency given flight time constraints. To address this, we propose the Obstacle-aware Adaptive Informative Path Planning (OA-IPP) algorithm for target search in cluttered environments using UAVs. Our approach leverages a layered planning strategy using a Gaussian Process (GP)based model of target occupancy to generate informative paths in continuous 3D space. Within this framework, we introduce an adaptive replanning scheme which allows us to trade off between information gain, field coverage, sensor performance, and collision avoidance for efficient target detection. Extensive simulations show that our OA-IPP method performs better than state-of-the-art planners, and we demonstrate its application in a realistic urban SaR scenario.

Title: Real-Time Planning with Multi-Fidelity Models for Agile Flights in Unknown Environments
Key Words: autonomous aerial vehicles  collision avoidance  mobile robots  sensors  low-fidelity models  fast planner  planning framework  agile flights  replanning times  cluttered environments  multifidelity models  autonomous navigation  real-time localization  lightweight sensing  planning methodologies  hierarchical planning architecture  low-fidelity global planner  high-fidelity local planner  erratic behavior  unstable behavior  global plan  higher-order dynamics  real-time planning  sensor data  collision check  UAV  time 5.0 ms to 40.0 ms  Planning  Trajectory  Computational modeling  Vehicle dynamics  Robot sensing systems  Optimization 
Abstract: Autonomous navigation through unknown environments is a challenging task that entails real-time localization, perception, planning, and control. UAVs with this capability have begun to emerge in the literature with advances in lightweight sensing and computing. Although the planning methodologies vary from platform to platform, many algorithms adopt a hierarchical planning architecture where a slow, low-fidelity global planner guides a fast, high-fidelity local planner. However, in unknown environments, this approach can lead to erratic or unstable behavior due to the interaction between the global planner, whose solution is changing constantly, and the local planner; a consequence of not capturing higher-order dynamics in the global plan. This work proposes a planning framework in which multi-fidelity models are used to reduce the discrepancy between the local and global planner. Our approach uses high-, medium-, and low-fidelity models to compose a path that captures higher-order dynamics while remaining computationally tractable. In addition, we address the interaction between a fast planner and a slower mapper by considering the sensor data not yet fused into the map during the collision check. This novel mapping and planning framework for agile flights is validated in simulation and hardware experiments, showing replanning times of 5-40 ms in cluttered environments.

Title: Efficient Trajectory Planning for High Speed Flight in Unknown Environments
Key Words: aircraft control  autonomous aerial vehicles  closed loop systems  collision avoidance  inertial navigation  mobile robots  motion control  optimal control  predictive control  sampling methods  trajectory control  motion planning  motion capture systems  receding horizon planning architecture  reactive obstacle avoidance  closed-form trajectory generation method  spatial partitioning data structures  obstacle density  sampling-based motion planner  minimum-jerk trajectories  closed-loop tracking  high-speed flight  autonomous quadrotor flights  urban environment  trajectory planning  visual-inertial navigation  distance 22.0 km  Trajectory  Planning  Sensors  Three-dimensional displays  Cameras  Vehicle dynamics  Tracking 
Abstract: There has been considerable recent work in motion planning for UAVs to enable aggressive, highly dynamic flight in known environments with motion capture systems. However, these existing planners have not been shown to enable the same kind of flight in unknown, outdoor environments. In this paper we present a receding horizon planning architecture that enables the fast replanning necessary for reactive obstacle avoidance by combining three techniques. First, we show how previous work in computationally efficient, closed-form trajectory generation method can be coupled with spatial partitioning data structures to reason about the geometry of the environment in real-time. Second, we show how to maintain safety margins during fast flight in unknown environments by planning velocities according to obstacle density. Third, our receding-horizon, sampling-based motion planner uses minimum-jerk trajectories and closed-loop tracking to enable smooth, robust, high-speed flight with the low angular rates necessary for accurate visual-inertial navigation. We compare against two state-of-the-art, reactive motion planners in simulation and benchmark solution quality against an offline global planner. Finally, we demonstrate our planner over 80 flights with a combined distance of 22km of autonomous quadrotor flights in an urban environment at speeds up to 9.4ms $^{-1}$.

Title: Priority Maps for Surveillance and Intervention of Wildfires and other Spreading Processes
Key Words: autonomous aerial vehicles  optimisation  path planning  wildfires  priority maps  wildfires  knowledge reward function  dynamic spreading processes  surveillance  bushfire spreading dynamics  wildfire intervention  unmanned aerial vehicle  optimization framework  UAV path planning  Mathematical model  Surveillance  Stochastic processes  Unmanned aerial vehicles  Path planning  Vehicle dynamics  Computational modeling 
Abstract: Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV) path planning algorithms often assume a knowledge reward function or priority map, indicating the most important areas to visit. In this paper we propose a method to create priority maps for monitoring or intervention of dynamic spreading processes such as wildfires. The presented optimization framework utilizes the properties of positive systems, in particular the separable structure of value (cost-to-go) functions, to provide scalable algorithms for surveillance and intervention. We present results obtained for a 16 and 1000 node example and convey how the priority map responds to changes in the dynamics of the system. The larger example of 1000 nodes, representing a fictional landscape, shows how the method can integrate bushfire spreading dynamics, landscape and wind conditions. Finally, we give an example of combining the proposed method with a travelling salesman problem for UAV path planning for wildfire intervention.

Title: A Practical Approach to Insertion with Variable Socket Position Using Deep Reinforcement Learning
Key Words: control engineering computing  industrial robots  learning (artificial intelligence)  neural nets  production engineering computing  variable socket position  visual control problem  model-based robotics community  task geometry  off-the-shelf Deep-RL algorithm  narrow-clearance peg-insertion task  deformable clip-insertion task  deep reinforcement learning  haptic control problem  Task analysis  Robots  Sockets  Visualization  Training  Plugs  Feature extraction 
Abstract: Insertion is a challenging haptic and visual control problem with significant practical value for manufacturing. Existing approaches in the model-based robotics community can be highly effective when task geometry is known, but are complex and cumbersome to implement, and must be tailored to each individual problem by a qualified engineer. Within the learning community there is a long history of insertion research, but existing approaches are either too sample-inefficient to run on real robots, or assume access to high-level object features, e.g. socket pose. In this paper we show that relatively minor modifications to an off-the-shelf Deep-RL algorithm (DDPG), combined with a small number of human demonstrations, allows the robot to quickly learn to solve these tasks efficiently and robustly. Our approach requires no modeling or simulation, no parameterized search or alignment behaviors, no vision system aside from raw images, and no reward shaping. We evaluate our approach on a narrow-clearance peg-insertion task and a deformable clip-insertion task, both of which include variability in the socket position. Our results show that these tasks can be solved reliably on the real robot in less than 10 minutes of interaction time, and that the resulting policies are robust to variance in the socket position and orientation.

Title: Uncertainty-Aware Data Aggregation for Deep Imitation Learning
Key Words: data aggregation  learning (artificial intelligence)  Monte Carlo methods  uncertain systems  uncertainty estimation method  UAIL  uncertainty-aware data aggregation  deep imitation learning  statistical uncertainties  autonomous agents  task execution  safety-critical domains  autonomous driving  uncertainty-aware imitation learning algorithm  end-to-end control systems  Monte Carlo Dropout  control output  end-to-end systems  training data  prior data aggregation algorithms  sub-optimal states  simulated driving tasks  Uncertainty  Data aggregation  Task analysis  Switches  Estimation  Data models 
Abstract: Estimating statistical uncertainties allows autonomous agents to communicate their confidence during task execution and is important for applications in safety-critical domains such as autonomous driving. In this work, we present the uncertainty-aware imitation learning (UAIL) algorithm for improving end-to-end control systems via data aggregation. UAIL applies Monte Carlo Dropout to estimate uncertainty in the control output of end-to-end systems, using states where it is uncertain to selectively acquire new training data. In contrast to prior data aggregation algorithms that force human experts to visit sub-optimal states at random, UAIL can anticipate its own mistakes and switch control to the expert in order to prevent visiting a series of sub-optimal states. Our experimental results from simulated driving tasks demonstrate that our proposed uncertainty estimation method can be leveraged to reliably predict infractions. Our analysis shows that UAIL outperforms existing data aggregation algorithms on a series of benchmark tasks.

Title: Uncertainty Aware Learning from Demonstrations in Multiple Contexts using Bayesian Neural Networks
Key Words: Bayes methods  belief networks  intelligent robots  learning (artificial intelligence)  learning systems  neurocontrollers  Bayesian neural networks  robotic controllers  evaluation conditions  learned controller  testing conditions  high-dimensional simulated domains  real robotic domains  uncertainty based solution  uncertainty aware learning  Uncertainty  Task analysis  Neural networks  Training  Robots  Bayes methods  Measurement uncertainty 
Abstract: Diversity of environments is a key challenge that causes learned robotic controllers to fail due to the discrepancies between the training and evaluation conditions. Training from demonstrations in various conditions can mitigate - but not completely prevent - such failures. Learned controllers such as neural networks typically do not have a notion of uncertainty that allows to diagnose an offset between training and testing conditions, and potentially intervene. In this work, we propose to use Bayesian Neural Networks, which have such a notion of uncertainty. We show that uncertainty can be leveraged to consistently detect situations in high-dimensional simulated and real robotic domains in which the performance of the learned controller would be sub-par. Also, we show that such an uncertainty based solution allows making an informed decision about when to invoke a fallback strategy. One fallback strategy is to request more data. We empirically show that providing data only when requested results in increased data-efficiency.

Title: Learning From Demonstration in the Wild
Key Words: cameras  learning (artificial intelligence)  object detection  traffic engineering computing  video signal processing  uncalibrated camera  learning from demonstration  ViBe  traffic intersection  knowledge expert  video to behaviour  natural behaviour  reward function  hand-coding behaviour  wild  raw videos  naturalistic behaviour  LfD  monocular camera  single camera  traffic scene  Cameras  Trajectory  Roads  Three-dimensional displays  Sensors  Training  Tracking 
Abstract: Learning from demonstration (LfD) is useful in settings where hand-coding behaviour or a reward function is impractical. It has succeeded in a wide range of problems but typically relies on manually generated demonstrations or specially deployed sensors and has not generally been able to leverage the copious demonstrations available in the wild: those that capture behaviours that were occurring anyway using sensors that were already deployed for another purpose, e.g., traffic camera footage capturing demonstrations of natural behaviour of vehicles, cyclists, and pedestrians. We propose video to behaviour (ViBe), a new approach to learn models of behaviour from unlabelled raw video data of a traffic scene collected from a single, monocular, initially uncalibrated camera with ordinary resolution. Our approach calibrates the camera, detects relevant objects, tracks them through time, and uses the resulting trajectories to perform LfD, yielding models of naturalistic behaviour. We apply ViBe to raw videos of a traffic intersection and show that it can learn purely from videos, without additional expert knowledge.

Title: A Data-Efficient Framework for Training and Sim-to-Real Transfer of Navigation Policies
Key Words: gradient methods  image coding  learning (artificial intelligence)  mobile robots  path planning  data-efficient framework  sim-to-real transfer  navigation policies  effective visuomotor policies  learning-based system  manual tuning  robot operating  training process  leverage simulation  off-policy data  initial image  lower dimensional latent state  planner modules  meta-learning strategy  adversarial domain transfer  simulated environments  similarly distributed latent representation  fine tuning  encoder + planner  planning performances  navigation tasks  unlabelled random images  Robots  Data models  Planning  Task analysis  Trajectory  Training  Navigation 
Abstract: Learning effective visuomotor policies for robots purely from data is challenging, but also appealing since a learning-based system should not require manual tuning or calibration. In the case of a robot operating in a real environment the training process can be costly, time-consuming, and even dangerous since failures are common at the start of training. For this reason, it is desirable to be able to leverage simulation and off-policy data to the extent possible to train the robot. In this work, we introduce a robust framework that plans in simulation and transfers well to the real environment. Our model incorporates a gradient-descent based planning module, which, given the initial image and goal image, encodes the images to a lower dimensional latent state and plans a trajectory to reach the goal. The model, consisting of the encoder and planner modules, is first trained through a meta-learning strategy in simulation. We subsequently perform adversarial domain transfer on the encoder by using a bank of unlabelled but random images from the simulation and real environments to enable the encoder to map images from the real and simulated environments to a similarly distributed latent representation. By fine tuning the entire model (encoder + planner) with only a few real world expert demonstrations, we show successful planning performances in different navigation tasks.

Title: Simulating Emergent Properties of Human Driving Behavior Using Multi-Agent Reward Augmented Imitation Learning
Key Words: behavioural sciences computing  convergence  learning (artificial intelligence)  multi-agent systems  traffic engineering computing  multiagent settings  multiagent imitation learning  human drivers  reward augmentation  imitation learning process  multiagent reward augmented imitation learning  traffic behaviors  imitation learning algorithms  human driving behavior modeling  prior knowledge specification  convergence guarantees  driving policies  Rails  Convergence  Biological system modeling  Trajectory  Computational modeling  Autonomous vehicles 
Abstract: Recent developments in multi-agent imitation learning have shown promising results for modeling the behavior of human drivers. However, it is challenging to capture emergent traffic behaviors that are observed in real-world datasets. Such behaviors arise due to the many local interactions between agents that are not commonly accounted for in imitation learning. This paper proposes Reward Augmented Imitation Learning (RAIL), which integrates reward augmentation into the multi-agent imitation learning framework and allows the designer to specify prior knowledge in a principled fashion. We prove that convergence guarantees for the imitation learning process are preserved under the application of reward augmentation. This method is validated in a driving scenario, where an entire traffic scene is controlled by driving policies learned using our proposed algorithm. Further, we demonstrate improved performance in comparison to traditional imitation learning algorithms both in terms of the local actions of a single agent and the behavior of emergent properties in complex, multi-agent settings.

Title: A Supervised Approach to Predicting Noise in Depth Images
Key Words: cameras  convolutional neural nets  image denoising  image fusion  image reconstruction  image sensors  object detection  pose estimation  robot vision  supervised learning  supervised approach  modern robotic systems  detailed sensor noise models  robotic behavior  scene-dependent pixel-wise dropouts  depth camera simulations  data driven approach  convolutional neural network  no-depth-return pixels  NDP  ground truth depth  noisy depth image  resulting noise-free  noise-free image  depth sensor  cluttered scenes  uncorrupted depth images  noise prediction  scenes reconstruction  CNN  unsupervised domain adaptation baselines  object pose estimation  noise-free depth image  label fusion dataset  Cameras  Image reconstruction  Data models  Noise measurement  Robot vision systems 
Abstract: Modern robotic systems are very complex and need to be tested in simulations with detailed sensor noise models to effectively verify robotic behavior. Depth imagery in particular comes with significant noise in the form of scene-dependent pixel-wise dropouts and distortions. Unfortunately, many depth camera simulations contain limited noise models, or can only support generating realistic depth images of simple scenes, which limits their usefulness in effectively testing perception algorithms. We propose a data driven approach to generate more realistic noise for complex simulated environments by using a convolutional neural network (CNN) to predict which pixels of a simulated noise-free depth image will not have returns (no-depth-return pixels, or NDP). We choose to focus on NDP here, as these dropouts are the most common and dramatic form of depth image noise. To train this network, we use reconstructed real-world scenes from the Label Fusion dataset to provide ground truth depth for each noisy depth image used to scan the scene. We use the resulting noise-free and noisy depth image pairs as labeled examples and train the network to predict which pixels of the noise-free image will be NDP. When used to post-process a simulation of a depth sensor, this system produces realistic depth images, even in cluttered scenes. To demonstrate that our approach successfully closes the reality gap for depth imagery, we show that the popular ICP algorithm for object pose estimation fails more realistically on our CNN-corrupted simulated depth images than on uncorrupted depth images and unsupervised domain adaptation baselines.

Title: Quantum Computation in Robotic Science and Applications
Key Words: cloud computing  intelligent robots  learning (artificial intelligence)  quantum computing  robot programming  quantum computing  cloud services  artificial intelligence  machine learning  robotic scientists  quantum mechanics  quantum computation  intelligent robots  powerful robots  Robot sensing systems  Computers  Optimization  Qubit  Acceleration 
Abstract: Using the effects of quantum mechanics for computing challenges has been an often discussed topic for decades. The frequent successes and early products in this area, which we have seen in recent years, indicate that we are currently entering a new era of computing. This paradigm shift will also impact the work of robotic scientists and the applications of robotics. New possibilities as well as new approaches to known problems will enable the creation of even more powerful and intelligent robots that make use of quantum computing cloud services or co-processors. In this position paper, we discuss potential application areas and also point out open research topics in quantum computing for robotics. We go into detail on the impact of quantum computing in artificial intelligence and machine learning, sensing and perception, kinematics as well as system diagnosis. For each topic we point out where quantum computing could be applied based on results from current research.

Title: A Learning Framework for High Precision Industrial Assembly
Key Words: assembling  optimisation  production engineering computing  supervised learning  learning framework  high precision industrial assembly  reinforcement learning  automatic assembly  supervised learning  assembly tasks  trajectory optimization  actor-critic algorithm  Task analysis  Trajectory  Optimization  Dynamics  Supervised learning  Computational modeling  Space exploration 
Abstract: Automatic assembly has broad applications in industries. Traditional assembly tasks utilize predefined trajectories or tuned force control parameters, which make the automatic assembly time-consuming, difficult to generalize, and not robust to uncertainties. In this paper, we propose a learning framework for high precision industrial assembly. The framework combines both the supervised learning and the reinforcement learning. The supervised learning utilizes trajectory optimization to provide the initial guidance to the policy, while the reinforcement learning utilizes actor-critic algorithm to establish the evaluation system even the supervisor is not accurate. The proposed learning framework is more efficient compared with the reinforcement learning and achieves better stability performance than the supervised learning. The effectiveness of the method is verified by both the simulation and experiment. Experimental videos are available at [1].

Title: Manipulation by Feel: Touch-Based Control with Deep Predictive Models
Key Words: dexterous manipulators  neurocontrollers  predictive control  tactile sensors  unsupervised learning  feel  touch-based control  deep predictive models  touch sensing  dexterous robotic manipulation  tactile sensing  nonprehensile manipulation  general purpose control techniques  accurate physics models  tactile percepts  high-resolution tactile  deep neural network dynamics models  deep tactile MPC  tactile servoing  raw tactile sensor inputs  GelSight-style tactile sensor  learned tactile predictive model  user-specified configurations  goal tactile reading  Task analysis  Predictive models  Tactile sensors  Videos 
Abstract: Touch sensing is widely acknowledged to be important for dexterous robotic manipulation, but exploiting tactile sensing for continuous, non-prehensile manipulation is challenging. General purpose control techniques that are able to effectively leverage tactile sensing as well as accurate physics models of contacts and forces remain largely elusive, and it is unclear how to even specify a desired behavior in terms of tactile percepts. In this paper, we take a step towards addressing these issues by combining high-resolution tactile sensing with data-driven modeling using deep neural network dynamics models. We propose deep tactile MPC, a framework for learning to perform tactile servoing from raw tactile sensor inputs, without manual supervision. We show that this method enables a robot equipped with a GelSight-style tactile sensor to manipulate a ball, analog stick, and 20-sided die, learning from unsupervised autonomous interaction and then using the learned tactile predictive model to reposition each object to user-specified configurations, indicated by a goal tactile reading. Videos, visualizations and the code are available here: https://sites.google.com/view/deeptactilempc.

Title: 3D Printed Soft Pneumatic Actuators with Intent Sensing for Hand Rehabilitative Exoskeletons*
Key Words: biomechanics  medical robotics  patient rehabilitation  pneumatic actuators  intent sensing  hand rehabilitative exoskeletons  functional motor skills  motor recovery  soft robotic exoskeletons  complex task-based rehabilitative exercises  bidirectional motion  soft actuators  finger flexion  noninvasive intent detection  upper limb rehabilitative exoskeletons  passive finger extension  fold-based bidirectional 3D printed intent-sensing soft pneumatic actuator  Fingers  Exoskeletons  Actuators  Robots  Three-dimensional displays  Optical sensors 
Abstract: Loss of functional motor skills are common and often require patients to undergo rehabilitation so that they have a chance at motor recovery. Advancement in technology has seen to a rise in the use of robotic technology in conducting rehabilitative exercises that are traditionally carried out by physiotherapists. In recent years, soft robotic exoskeletons, using pneumatic-based actuation in particular, have gained much interest due to their compliant characteristics and safe operating conditions. In order to carry out complex task-based rehabilitative exercises, these soft pneumatic actuators must ideally be able to move with multiple degrees of freedom or minimally, in a bidirectional motion. Majority of the research covering soft actuators can only achieve finger flexion with some providing passive finger extension. Non-invasive intent detection in the control of these exoskeletons is also lacking in sensing both finger flexion and extension. In this paper we present our work on a fold-based bidirectional 3D printed intent-sensing soft pneumatic actuator (ISPA) that can achieve bidirectional motion and provide intent detection for finger flexion and extension for application in upper limb rehabilitative exoskeletons.

Title: Gaze-based, Context-aware Robotic System for Assisted Reaching and Grasping
Key Words: gaze tracking  grammars  handicapped aids  human-robot interaction  medical robotics  mobile robots  patient rehabilitation  human-in-the-loop assistive robotics  low-level motion actions  3D gaze estimation  grammars-based implementation  gaze-based  context-aware robotic system  assistive robotic systems  movement disabilities  human user  multimodal system  assisted reaching  assisted grasping  Three-dimensional displays  Cameras  Robot kinematics  Robot vision systems  Grasping 
Abstract: Assistive robotic systems endeavour to support those with movement disabilities, enabling them to move again and regain functionality. Main issue with these systems is the complexity of their low-level control, and how to translate this to simpler, higher level commands that are easy and intuitive for a human user to interact with. We have created a multi-modal system, consisting of different sensing, decision making and actuating modalities, leading to intuitive, human-in-the-loop assistive robotics. The system takes its cue from the user's gaze, to decode their intentions and implement low-level motion actions to achieve high-level tasks. This results in the user simply having to look at the objects of interest, for the robotic system to assist them in reaching for those objects, grasping them, and using them to interact with other objects. We present our method for 3D gaze estimation, and grammars-based implementation of sequences of action with the robotic system. The 3D gaze estimation is evaluated with 8 subjects, showing an overall accuracy of 4.68\pm 0.14cm. The full system is tested with 5 subjects, showing successful implementation of 100% of reach to gaze point actions and full implementation of pick and place tasks in 96%, and pick and pour tasks in 76% of cases. Finally we present a discussion on our results and what future work is needed to improve the system.

Title: Ways to Learn a Therapist’s Patient-specific Intervention: Robotics-vs Telerobotics-mediated Hands-on Teaching
Key Words: medical robotics  patient rehabilitation  patient treatment  telerobotics  therapists time  healthcare resources  rehabilitation services  robot-assisted rehabilitation  economical solution  LfD  robotic rehabilitation  learning from demonstration  telerobotic-mediated hands-on teaching  telerobotic-mediated kinesthetic teaching  TMKT  RMKT  Task analysis  Impedance  Medical treatment  Robot kinematics  Robot sensing systems  Service robots 
Abstract: Due to the limitations of therapists time and healthcare resources to cover the increasing demand for rehabilitation services, robot-assisted rehabilitation is becoming an appealing, powerful and economical solution. In our previous research, a solution that combines Learning from Demonstration (LfD) and robotic rehabilitation to save the therapists time and reduce the therapy costs was proposed. In this paper we compare two modalities, Robot-and Telerobotic-Mediated Kinesthetic Teaching (RMKT and TMKT), for implementing LfD in robotic rehabilitation. Our results show that behaviors demonstrated in both modalities are able to be imitated accurately, but demonstrations in TMKT have less repeatability.

Title: Development of a Novel Force Sensing System to Measure the Ground Reaction Force of Rats with Complete Spinal Cord Injury
Key Words: biomechanics  biomedical measurement  force sensors  injuries  medical disorders  molecular biophysics  nanofibres  nanomedicine  neurophysiology  patient rehabilitation  patient treatment  proteins  tissue engineering  T9-T10 level  human observance  nanofiber scaffold  neurotrophin-3  right limb  force sensing system  spinalized rats  force detection  effective treatment method  spinal cord injury  complete spinal cord  spinal cord transection injury model  motor function  rehabilitation enhanced recovery  rehabilitated rats  left limb  ground reaction force  Rats  Force  Force measurement  Spinal cord  Robot sensing systems 
Abstract: To date, the aim of spinal cord injury (SCI) researches in animals is to find the most effective treatment method which can lead to faster recovery. In order to evaluate if the method is effective, robust functional assessments are crucial. From the past to present, indicators to observe the recovery of the motor function in rodent SCI models are using human observance or the Basso, Beattie, and Bresnahan score (BBB score), force detection, and imaging approaches. Nevertheless, these indicators do not meet some requirements for a severe full transection injury case. The goal of this project is to develop a novel force sensing system for measuring the ground reaction force of rats with severe SCI. In total, this system was tested with 12 spinalized rats. Following a full transection at the T9-T10 level of the spinal cord in rats with a 2mm gap, a nanofiber scaffold containing Neurotrophin-3 (NT-3), as previously described, was implanted [1]. After 12 weeks of rehabilitative training, results showed that rats that underwent rehabilitation were able to gradually exert more force as compared to rats that did not undergo rehabilitation. At Week 6, the ground reaction force recorded in rats with rehabilitation was 0.8 ± 0.1 N in left limb and 0.75 ± 0.14 N in right limb. On the other hand, rats without rehabilitation exerted 0.52 ± 0.06 N in left limb and 0.47 ± 0.09 N in right limb. At Week 12, the force recorded in rehabilitated rats increased to 1.43 ± 0.13 N in left limb and 1.28 ± 0.17 N in right limb whereas in rats without rehabilitation, the force recorded was only 0.74 ± 0.12 N in left limb and 0.54 ± 0.11 N in right limb. These results not only showed that rehabilitation enhanced recovery of motor function, but also demonstrated the viability of measuring the ground reaction force applied by the rats as an assessment for a full spinal cord transection injury model.

Title: A Four-magnet System for 2D Wireless Open-Loop Control of Microrobots
Key Words: electric actuators  microrobots  permanent magnets  four-magnet system  2D wireless open-loop control  untethered microrobot  local maxima  magnetic field magnitude  planar workspace  convergence point  magnetic microrobots  influence zone  actuator orientation  actuator design  permanent magnets  open-loop guidance  Actuators  Permanent magnets  Magnetization  Magnetic forces  Convergence  Force  Trajectory 
Abstract: This paper presents a novel permanent magnets based actuator capable of injecting and 2D wireless control the motion of an untethered microrobot. The actuator is obtained with a simple, but an effective arrangement of four permanent magnets. Its novelty is that it creates local maxima of the magnetic field magnitude in a planar workspace. This results in a convergence point for magnetic microrobots that are in its influence zone. Trapping microrobots in the local maxima makes their open-loop guidance possible, even in presence of reasonable perturbations. Actually, open-loop control is the only way to achieve some drug delivery when there are no sensors to provide us a feedback on the microrobot's positions. With the proposed actuator, the workspace is reduced, the movement is simplified and the actuator orientation is not needed anymore. Experimental results are provided in the paper to show the soundness of the proposed actuator design.

Title: Nitinol living hinges for millimeter-sized robots and medical devices
Key Words: beam steering  bending  biomedical materials  cameras  elasticity  endoscopes  etching  hinges  laser beam machining  micromachining  microrobots  nickel alloys  prototypes  titanium alloys  water jet cutting  millimeter-sized robots  medical devices  hybrid manufacturing process  laser micromaching  superelastic properties  room-temperature mechanical etching procedure  thermal damage  bending stiffness model  prototype devices  simple laser beam steering system  nitinol living hinges  abrasive jet micromaching  endoscopic camera wrist  Fasteners  Fabrication  Robots  Laser beam cutting  Micromachining  Strain  Geometry 
Abstract: A hybrid manufacturing process combining abrasive jet and laser micromaching enables the creation of living hinges in nitinol that retain the superelastic properties of the bulk material. The former selectively etches through the thickness of a workpiece and the latter defines the part's final geometry. Because the majority of the material removal is done with the room-temperature mechanical etching procedure, thermal damage to the part is minimized. Processing parameters to achieve desired geometries are described, a bending stiffness model for the living hinges is provided, and validation experiments are presented. Lastly, to demonstrate the usefulness of these components to millimeter-sized robotic systems and medical devices, we show their integration in two prototype devices: an endoscopic camera wrist and a simple laser beam steering system.

Title: Tetherless Mobile Micro-Surgical Scissors Using Magnetic Actuation
Key Words: elasticity  magnetic flux  medical robotics  microrobots  surgery  laparoscopic probe  current minimally-invasive surgical tools  wireless surgical scissors  untethered surgical scissors  untethered surgical tool  superelastic nitinol wire  external magnetic flux density  3D magnetic coil system  sharpened titanium sheets  mobile microrobotic device  proof-of-concept prototype  magnetic actuation  tetherless mobile microsurgical scissors  size 15.0 mm  Blades  Magnetic flux  Tools  Force  Torque  Springs  Robots 
Abstract: Current minimally-invasive surgical tools suffer from lack of scalability and restricted access to some surgical sites using a laparoscopic probe. This paper introduces a proof-of-concept prototype of the first completely wireless surgical scissors capable of dexterous motion and cutting in a remote environment as a mobile microrobotic device. The 15 mm untethered surgical scissors are custom made from sharpened titanium sheets with a magnet on each blade for actuating force and control. A super-elastic nitinol wire acts as a restoring spring and results in a simple design with no pin joint which is difficult to fabricate at small sizes. To actuate and control the scissors, a 3D magnetic coil system is used here for testing and demonstration. An external magnetic flux density of 20 mT can be generated using the coils and is used for cutting as well as orienting, moving and closing the scissors. In this first prototype setup, the scissors can generate up to 75 mN of cutting force, and we demonstrate the cutting of agar. As a proof of concept demonstration of the potential use of the scissors as a completely untethered surgical tool, we robotically maneuver the scissors to a target location in a confined environment where they cut through agar and return to their initial position.

Title: A Large-Deflection FBG Bending Sensor for SMA Bending Modules for Steerable Surgical Robots
Key Words: bending  biomedical measurement  Bragg gratings  closed loop systems  fibre optic sensors  manipulators  medical robotics  shape memory effects  surgery  steerable surgical robots  disposable surgical robots  minimally invasive procedures  closed-loop control  superelastic substrate  flexible adhesive  sensor-actuator assembly  SMA actuation  intrinsic bending sensor  shape memory alloy bending modules  fiber Bragg grating bending sensor  SMA bending module  large-deflection FBG bending sensor  Robot sensing systems  Fiber gratings  Substrates  Wires  Strain  Gratings 
Abstract: This paper presents the development of a fiber Bragg grating (FBG) bending sensor for shape memory alloy (SMA) bending modules. Due to the small form factor, low cost, and large-deflection capability, SMA bending modules can be used to construct disposable surgical robots for a variety of minimally invasive procedures. To realize a closed-loop control of SMA bending modules, an intrinsic bending sensor is imperative. Due to the lack of bending sensors for SMA bending modules, we have developed an FBG bending sensor by integrating FBG fibers with a superelastic substrate using flexible adhesive. Since the substrate is ultra-thin and adhesive is flexible, the sensor has low stiffness and can measure large curvatures. Additionally, due to the orthogonal arrangement of the sensor/actuator assembly, the influence of temperature variation caused by SMA actuation can be compensated. The working principle of the developed sensor was modeled followed by simulations. After experimentally evaluating the developed model, the sensor was integrated with an SMA bending module and cyclically bi-directionally deflected. The experimental results proved the relatively high measurement accuracy, high repeatability, and large measurable curvatures of the sensor, although hysteresis was observed due to friction.

Title: Towards Learning Abstract Representations for Locomotion Planning in High-dimensional State Spaces
Key Words: convolutional neural nets  learning (artificial intelligence)  mobile robots  neurocontrollers  path planning  cost function  search-based planning  hybrid driving-stepping locomotion  locomotion planning  high-dimensional state spaces  ground robots  ground structure  movable body parts  robot representation  Planning  Robots  Cost function  Task analysis  Search problems  Acceleration  Tuning 
Abstract: Ground robots which are able to navigate a variety of terrains are needed in many domains. One of the key aspects is the capability to adapt to the ground structure, which can be realized through movable body parts coming along with additional degrees of freedom (DoF). However, planning respective locomotion is challenging since suitable representations result in large state spaces. Employing an additional abstract representation-which is coarser, lower-dimensional, and semantically enriched-can support the planning. While a desired robot representation and action set of such an abstract representation can be easily defined, the cost function requires large tuning efforts. We propose a method to represent the cost function as a CNN. Training of the network is done on generated artificial data, while it generalizes well to the abstraction of real world scenes. We further apply our method to the problem of search-based planning of hybrid driving-stepping locomotion. The abstract representation is used as a powerful informed heuristic which accelerates planning by multiple orders of magnitude.

Title: Fast Stochastic Functional Path Planning in Occupancy Maps
Key Words: computational complexity  Gaussian processes  optimisation  path planning  robots  sampling methods  trajectory control  occupancy map  stochastic trajectory optimiser  Gaussian process path representation  trajectory optimisation  fast stochastic functional path planning  path planners  highly expressive path representation  sampling-based planners  fully defined artificial potential field  partially observed model  cubic complexity  kernel approximation  computational complexity  stochastic sampling  sampling-based methods  Planning  Optimization  Trajectory  Kernel  Robots  Stochastic processes 
Abstract: Path planners are generally categorised as either trajectory optimisers or sampling-based planners. The latter is the predominant planning paradigm for occupancy maps. Most trajectory optimisers require a fully defined artificial potential field for planning and cannot incorporate updates from a partially observed model such as an occupancy map. A stochastic trajectory optimiser capable of planning over occupancy map was presented in [1]. However, its scalability is limited by the cubic complexity of the Gaussian process path representation. In this work, we introduce a novel highly expressive path representation based on kernel approximation to perform trajectory optimisation over occupancy maps. This approach reduces the computational complexity to a fixed cost that only depends on the number of features. We show that stochastic sampling is crucial for planning in occupancy maps and present comparisons to other state-of-the-art planning methods, using simulated and real occupancy data. These experiments demonstrate the significant reduction in runtime, resulting in performance comparable to or better than sampling-based methods.

Title: A Scalable Framework For Real-Time Multi-Robot, Multi-Human Collision Avoidance
Key Words: collision avoidance  human-robot interaction  multi-robot systems  robust control  trajectory control  robust motion planning  robotics literature  robot navigation  high-order system dynamics  confidence-aware human motion predictions  sequential priority ordering  trajectory planning  multirobot multihuman collision avoidance  Planning  Trajectory  Robot sensing systems  Robot kinematics  Predictive models  Real-time systems 
Abstract: Robust motion planning is a well-studied problem in the robotics literature, yet current algorithms struggle to operate scalably and safely in the presence of other moving agents, such as humans. This paper introduces a novel framework for robot navigation that accounts for high-order system dynamics and maintains safety in the presence of external disturbances, other robots, and humans. Our approach precomputes a tracking error margin for each robot, generates confidence-aware human motion predictions, and coordinates multiple robots with a sequential priority ordering, effectively enabling scalable safe trajectory planning and execution. We demonstrate our approach in hardware with two robots and two humans, and showcase scalability in a larger simulation.

Title: Lazy Evaluation of Goal Specifications Guided by Motion Planning
Key Words: mobile robots  motion control  path planning  lazy evaluation  collaborative environments  robot motion commands  delayed grounding  lazy variable grounding  motion planning algorithm  semantic interpretation  goal specifications  reward-penalty strategy  Semantics  Planning  Robot kinematics  Grounding  Automobiles  Collaboration 
Abstract: Nowadays robotic systems are expected to share workspaces and collaborate with humans. In such collaborative environments, an important challenge is to ground or establish the correct semantic interpretation of a human request. Once such an interpretation is available, the request must be translated into robot motion commands in order to complete the desired task. It is not unusual that a human request cannot be grounded to a unique interpretation, thus leading to an ambiguous request. A simple example is to ask a robot to “put a cup on the table,” when there are multiple cups available. In order to deal with this kind of ambiguous request, we propose a delayed or lazy variable grounding. The focus of this paper is a motion planning algorithm that, given goal regions that represent different valid groundings, lazily finds a feasible path to any one valid grounding. This algorithm includes a reward-penalty strategy, which attempts to prioritize those goal regions that seem more promising to provide a solution. We validate our approach by solving requests with multiple valid alternatives in both simulation and real-world experiments.

Title: Reconfigurable Motion Planning and Control in Obstacle Cluttered Environments under Timed Temporal Tasks
Key Words: collision avoidance  convex programming  formal verification  mobile robots  motion control  path planning  temporal logic  high-level specification  timed temporal logic formula  obstacle avoidance  motion controller  safe navigation  transition system  standard formal verification  convex optimization techniques  reconfigurable motion planning  obstacle cluttered environments  timed temporal tasks  robot navigation  hybrid control strategy  temporal specifications  agent motion abstraction  Clocks  Task analysis  Planning  Navigation  Automata 
Abstract: This work addresses the problem of robot navigation under timed temporal specifications in workspaces cluttered with obstacles. We propose a hybrid control strategy that guarantees the accomplishment of a high-level specification expressed as a timed temporal logic formula, while preserving safety (i.e., obstacle avoidance) of the system. In particular, we utilize a motion controller that achieves safe navigation inside the workspace in predetermined time, thus allowing us to abstract the motion of the agent as a finite timed transition system among certain regions of interest. Next, we employ standard formal verification and convex optimization techniques to derive high-level timed plans that satisfy the agent's specifications. A simulation study illustrates and clarifies the proposed scheme.

Title: Door opening and traversal with an industrial cartesian impedance controlled mobile robot
Key Words: convolutional neural nets  image colour analysis  image segmentation  manipulator dynamics  mobile robots  robot vision  handle frame  manipulator  inner controller loops  door opening  industrial cartesian impedance  mobile robot  holistic approach  door model  door handle detection  convolutional neural network-based architecture  handle shapes  detection rate  door plane  control structure  Robot kinematics  Impedance  Task analysis  Three-dimensional displays  Robot sensing systems  End effectors 
Abstract: This paper presents a holistic approach for door opening with a cartesian impedance controlled mobile robot, a KUICA KMR iiwa. Based on a given map of the environment, the robot autonomously detects the door handle, opens doors and traverses doorways without knowledge of a door model or the door's geometry. The door handle detection uses a convolutional neural network (CNN)-based architecture to obtain the handle's bounding box in a RGB image that works robustly for various handle shapes and colors. We achieve a detection rate of 100% for an evaluation set of 38 different door handles, by always selecting for highest confidence score. Registered depth data segmentation defines the door plane to construct a handle coordinate frame. We introduce a control structure based on the task frame formalism that uses the handle frame for reference in an outer loop for the manipulator's impedance controller. It runs in soft real-time on an external computer with approximately 20 Hz since access to inner controller loops is not available for the KMR iiwa. With the approach proposed in this paper, the robot successfully opened and traversed for 22 out of 25 trials at five different doors.

Title: An Algorithm for Odor Source Localization based on Source Term Estimation
Key Words: estimation theory  Markov processes  mobile robots  path planning  wind tunnels  odor source localization  source term estimation  airborne chemicals  mobile sensing systems  navigation method  partially observable Markov decision processes  wind tunnel  Robot sensing systems  Estimation  Navigation  Probabilistic logic  Heuristic algorithms  Mobile robots 
Abstract: Finding sources of airborne chemicals with mobile sensing systems finds applications across the security, safety, domestic, medical, and environmental domains. In this paper, we present an algorithm based on source term estimation for odor source localization that is coupled with a navigation method based on partially observable Markov decision processes. We propose an innovative strategy to balance exploration and exploitation in navigation. The method has been evaluated systematically through high-fidelity simulations and in a wind tunnel emulating realistic and repeatable conditions. The impact of multiple algorithmic and environmental parameters has been studied in the experiments.

Title: Neural Network Pile Loading Controller Trained by Demonstration
Key Words: backpropagation  Bayes methods  construction equipment  feedforward neural nets  industrial robots  mobile robots  neurocontrollers  sensors  automated pile loading  robotic wheel loader  control signals  hydrostatic driving pressure  boom control  single hidden layer  training data  bucket filling performance  heuristic automated controller  manual human control  demonstration approach  Bayesian regularization backpropagation algorithm  end-to-end neural network controllers  3D laser scan  Levenberg-Marquardt algorithm  Artificial neural networks  Loading  Robot sensing systems  Wheels  Training  Neurons 
Abstract: This paper presents the development and testing of end-to-end Neural Network (NN) controllers for automated pile loading with a robotic wheel loader. NNs were trained using the Learning from Demonstration approach, i.e. by first recording sensor and control signals during manually-driven pile loading actions. Training made use of three input signals: boom angle, bucket angle and hydrostatic driving pressure; and three output signals: boom control, bucket control and the gas command. Most testing was conducted using NNs with 5 neurons in a single hidden layer, which were able to fill the bucket reasonably well. Qualitative comparisons were made to ascertain how the amount of training data and number of hidden neurons affects bucket filling performance, for NNs trained using both the Levenberg-Marquardt and Bayesian Regularization backpropagation algorithms. Different NNs trained with the same data were also compared. An additional pile transfer experiment compared the performance of an NN controller with a heuristic automated controller and manual human control. By estimating the total volume of material transferred using 3D laser scans, human control was found to have the highest performance, though the NN outperformed the heuristic controller. This indicated that end-to-end NN control trained by demonstration could offer improvement over current heuristic methods for automated pile loading.

Title: Dynamic Manipulation of Gear Ratio and Ride Height for a Novel Compliant Wheel using Pneumatic Actuators
Key Words: gears  mobile robots  pneumatic actuators  road vehicles  vehicle dynamics  wheels  dynamic manipulation  gear ratio  pneumatic actuators  configurable wheel  varied radius wheels  positional manipulation  centre hub  virtual wheels  physical system  outer rim  fast control  vehicle ride height  compliant wheel  off-road robotics  space exploration  Wheels  Mathematical model  Mobile robots  Two dimensional displays  Gears  Acceleration 
Abstract: This paper proposes a novel configurable wheel that exhibits desired properties of varied radius wheels. Positional manipulation of the centre hub is proposed and tested to achieve these desired characteristics of `virtual' wheels in a physical system. The centre hub is manipulated via the use of pneumatic actuators mounted to and constricted by the outer rim of the wheel, which allows for fast and accurate control to enable the vehicle ride height and gear ratio to be adjusted continuously and be maintained during the wheels' full rotation. Experiments are presented, validating this ability of the system. We envision uses for this system to extend from off-road robotics to space exploration as these wheels exhibit novel characteristics not demonstrated by other platforms.

Title: Feasible coordination of multiple homogeneous or heterogeneous mobile vehicles with various constraints
Key Words: algebra  mobile robots  motion control  multi-robot systems  path planning  nonholonomic motion constraints  holonomic coordination constraints  differential-algebraic equations  viability theory  coordinated motion control  heterogeneous vehicle dynamics  multivehicle coordination  control schemes  coordination control  heterogeneous mobile vehicles  Task analysis  Kinematics  Mathematical model  Vehicle dynamics  Trajectory  Tools 
Abstract: We consider the problem of feasible coordination control for multiple homogeneous or heterogeneous mobile vehicles subject to various constraints (nonholonomic motion constraints, holonomic coordination constraints, equality/inequality constraints etc). We develop a general framework involving differential-algebraic equations and viability theory to describe and determine coordination feasibility for a coordinated motion control under heterogeneous vehicle dynamics and various constraints. A heuristic algorithm is proposed for generating feasible trajectories for each individual vehicle. We show several application examples and simulation experiments on multi-vehicle coordination under various constraints to validate the theory and the effectiveness of the proposed algorithm and control schemes.

Title: Turn-minimizing multirobot coverage
Key Words: minimisation  mobile robots  multi-robot systems  path planning  travelling salesman problems  turn-minimizing multirobot coverage  identical robots  mission time  robot  multiple travelling salesperson problem  coverage plans  robotic vacuum  turn minimization  coverage time  path planning  partitioning heuristic  coverage plan  multirobot coverage  Robots  Tools  Turning  Minimization  Shape  Merging  Planning 
Abstract: Multirobot coverage is the problem of planning paths for several identical robots such that the combined regions traced out by the robots completely cover their environment. We consider the problem of multirobot coverage with the objective of minimizing the mission time, which depends on the number of turns taken by the robots. To solve this problem, we first partition the environment into ranks which are long thin rectangles the width of the robot's coverage tool. Our novel partitioning heuristic produces a set of ranks which minimizes the number of turns. Next, we solve a variant of the multiple travelling salesperson problem (m-TSP) on the set of ranks to minimize the robots' mission time. The resulting coverage plan is guaranteed to cover the entire environment. We present coverage plans for a robotic vacuum using real maps of 25 indoor environments and compare the solutions to paths planned without the objective of minimizing turns. Turn minimization reduced the number of turns by 6.7% and coverage time by 3.8% on average for teams of 1-5 robots.

Title: Efficient Kinodynamic Multi-Robot Replanning in Known Workspaces
Key Words: collision avoidance  graph theory  iterative methods  mobile robots  multi-robot systems  reachability analysis  robot dynamics  trajectory control  known workspaces  online centralized kinodynamic multirobot replanning  offline state lattice reachability analysis  explicit geometric graph  higher-order derivatives  geometric paths  kinodynamic multirobot replanning  sequential graph searches  iterative refinement procedures  Planning  Trajectory  Libraries  Lattices  Collision avoidance  Robot kinematics 
Abstract: In this work, we consider the problem of online centralized kinodynamic multi-robot replanning (from potentially non-stationary initial states) and coordination in known and cluttered workspaces. Offline state lattice reachability analysis is leveraged to decouple the planning problem into two sequential graph searches-one in the explicit geometric graph of the environment and the other in the graph of the higher-order derivatives of the robot's state-in a manner such that the intermediate vertices of a safe set of geometric paths are guaranteed to have a feasible assignment of higher-order derivatives. Without additional iterative refinement procedures, the resulting time parameterized polynomial trajectories are dynamically feasible and collision-free. Planning results with up to 20 robots in two and three dimensional workspaces suggest the suitability of the proposed approach for multi-robot replanning in known environments.

Title: Cannot avoid penalty? Let’s minimize
Key Words: multi-robot systems  optimisation  processor scheduling  warehousing  multirobot systems  multirobot task allocation  task completion  multiprocessor scheduling  minimum penalty scheduling  near-optimal real-time task schedule  Task analysis  Robots  Resource management  Schedules  Real-time systems  Scheduling  Multi-robot systems 
Abstract: Multi-robot systems are deployed in a warehouse to automate the process of storing and retrieving objects in and out of the warehouse. The efficiency of the system largely depends on how the tasks are allocated to the robots. Though there exists a number of techniques that can perform multi-robot task allocation quite efficiently, they hardly consider deadline for task completion while assigning tasks to the robots. A careful allocation is of paramount importance when there is an associated penalty with each of the tasks if it is not completed within a stipulated time. In this work, we develop an algorithm, called Minimum Penalty Scheduling (MPS) that allocates tasks among a group of robots with the goal that the overall penalty of executing all the tasks can be minimized. Our algorithm provides a robust, scalable, and near-optimal real-time task schedule. By comparing with the state-of-the-art algorithm, we show that MPS attracts up to 62.5% less penalty when a significant number of tasks are bound to miss the deadline. Additionally, MPS is also suitable for real-time multi-processor scheduling since it schedules a higher number of tasks within their deadline.

Title: Mixed-Granularity Human-Swarm Interaction
Key Words: augmented reality  control engineering computing  human-robot interaction  mobile robots  multi-robot systems  mixed-granularity human-swarm interaction  augmented reality human-swarm interface  environment-oriented modality  robot swarm  robot-oriented modality  environment-oriented interaction  robot-oriented interaction  Task analysis  Robot kinematics  Augmented reality  Cognitive science  Navigation  Engines 
Abstract: We present an augmented reality human-swarm interface that combines two modalities of interaction: environment-oriented and robot-oriented. The environment-oriented modality allows the user to modify the environment (either virtual or physical) to indicate a goal to attain for the robot swarm. The robot-oriented modality makes it possible to select individual robots to reassign them to other tasks to increase performance or remedy failures. Previous research has concluded that environment-oriented interaction might prove more difficult to grasp for untrained users. In this paper, we report a user study which indicates that, at least in collective transport, environment-oriented interaction is more effective than purely robot-oriented interaction, and that the two combined achieve remarkable efficacy.

Title: Flexible collaborative transportation by a team of rotorcraft
Key Words: aerospace control  control system synthesis  helicopters  mobile robots  motion control  multi-robot systems  nonlinear control systems  position control  robot dynamics  suspensions (mechanical components)  flexible collaborative transportation  suspended payload  acceleration signals  maximum payload  incremental nonlinear dynamic inversion controller  distance-based formation-motion control algorithm  worst case conditions  open-source autopilot  rotorcraft team  Acceleration  Shape  Robot kinematics  Tracking  Payloads  Transportation 
Abstract: We propose a combined method for the collaborative transportation of a suspended payload by a team of rotorcraft. A recent distance-based formation-motion control algorithm based on assigning distance disagreements among robots generates the acceleration signals to be tracked by the vehicles. In particular, the proposed method does not need global positions nor tracking prescribed trajectories for the motion of the members of the team. The acceleration signals are followed accurately by an Incremental Nonlinear Dynamic Inversion controller designed for rotorcraft that measures and resists the tensions from the payload. Our approach allows us to analyze the involved accelerations and forces in the system so that we can calculate the worst case conditions explicitly to guarantee a nominal performance, provided that the payload starts at rest in the 2D centroid of the formation, and it is not under significant disturbances. For example, we can calculate the maximum safe deformation of the team with respect to its desired shape. We demonstrate our method with a team of four rotorcraft carrying a suspended object two times heavier than the maximum payload for an individual. Last but not least, our proposed algorithm is available for the community in the open-source autopilot Paparazzi.

Title: Dynamically-consistent Generalized Hierarchical Control
Key Words: C++ language  control engineering computing  manipulator dynamics  manipulator kinematics  Matlab  redundant manipulators  robot programming  source code (software)  dynamically-consistent generalized hierarchical control  redundant robots  strict prioritization schemes  GHC  nullspace projection operator  dynamically-consistent stack-of-tasks hierarchies  DynGHC  soft prioritization schemes  Matlab  C++ source code  Task analysis  Jacobian matrices  Robots  Couplings  Matrix decomposition  Transmission line matrix methods  Matlab 
Abstract: Tracking multiple prioritized tasks simultaneously with redundant robots have been investigated extensively over the last decades. Recent research focuses on combining advantages from both classical soft and strict prioritization schemes which is non-trivial. Among the proposed methods to tackle this issue, Generalized Hierarchical Control (GHC) seems to have a reasonable performance, however, it does not include a weighting matrix in the computation of the nullspace projection operator and hence cannot construct dynamically-consistent stack-of-tasks hierarchies as a special case. We extend GHC by adding dynamic-consistency to the control scheme and refer to it as DynGHC. The extension is also advantageous when choosing non-strict priorities because inertia coupling between tasks is reduced. DynGHC allows to smoothly rearrange priorities which is important for robots acting in dynamically changing contexts. Comparative simulations with a 4 DOF planar manipulator and a KUKA LWR validate our approach. Matlab and C++ source code is made available.

Title: Robotic Joint Control System based on Analogue Spiking Neural Networks and SMA Actuators
Key Words: biocontrol  biomechanics  dexterous manipulators  humanoid robots  medical robotics  mobile robots  muscle  neurocontrollers  position control  shape memory effects  robotic joint control system  analogue spiking neural networks  SMA actuators  human hands  complex functions  motor cortex  anthropomorphic hands  natural muscle control  improved control system  analogue neural networks  biological control mechanisms  natural muscles  single-joint robotic arm  human elbow  artificial muscle  biological plausibility  shape memory alloy wire  contraction force  actuator wire  spiking frequency  electronic neurons  excitatory neurons  inhibitory neurons  artificial motor neurons  shape memory alloy actuator  spiking neural network  arm mobile lever  control method  robotic arm junction  Conferences  Automation  single-joint robotic arm  analogue neural networks  shape memory alloy actuators  joint rotation accuracy and precision  disturbances 
Abstract: The control of human hands and fingers represents one of the most complex functions of the motor cortex. In order to implement anthropomorphic hands that mimic accurately the motion ability of the human hands, the basic biological mechanisms of the natural muscle control should be modelled. This paper presents the design of a significantly improved control system based on analogue neural networks that can be used to replicate the biological control mechanisms of the natural muscles. In order to demonstrate the proposed concept, experiments were performed using a single-joint robotic arm that can be flexed as the human elbow by an artificial muscle connected as the biceps. In order to bring more biological plausibility to the robotic arm, the artificial muscle is implemented using a shape memory alloy wire which actuates by contraction as the natural muscles. Moreover, the contraction force of the actuator wire is directly determined by the spiking frequency of the electronic neurons as the motor neurons determines the contraction strength of the natural muscles. The experimental results show that using excitatory neurons and several inhibitory neurons unevenly distributed on the inputs of the artificial motor neurons that drive the shape memory alloy actuator, the spiking neural network is able to control with high precision the rotation of the arm mobile lever to random target positions even if the arm is slightly loaded. These results validate the control method of the robotic arm junction showing that the analogue spiking neural networks represents a very good alternative to control the contraction of SMA actuators in a biological plausible manner.

Title: Model Reference Adaptive Control of a Two-Wheeled Mobile Robot
Key Words: adaptive control  control system synthesis  mobile robots  model reference adaptive control systems  nonlinear control systems  pendulums  two-wheeled mobile robot  dynamically unstable system  environmental conditions  loading conditions  nonlinear controller  control systems  fixed parameter controllers  single-input multioutput nature  adaptive controller  SIMO systems  hidden dynamic effects  model reference adaptive control  Vehicle dynamics  Adaptation models  Mathematical model  Control systems  Adaptive control  Mobile robots 
Abstract: The inverted pendulum is by nature a dynamically unstable system and may be subjected to severe disturbances due to its environmental or loading conditions. This paper formulates a design for a nonlinear controller to balance a two-wheeled mobile robot (TWMR) based on Model Reference Adaptive Control. The proposed solution overcomes the limitations of control systems that rely on fixed parameter controllers. Given the nonlinear single-input multi-output (SIMO) nature of the TWMR platform, the proposed adaptive controller can handle non-linearities without the need for linearization, and inherently dealing with SIMO systems. By studying the influence that hidden dynamic effects can cause, we show the preference of the proposed controller over other designs. Simulation results demonstrate the applicability and efficiency of our proposed design, and experimental results validate the effectiveness of the proposed scheme in guaranteeing asymptotic output tracking, even in the presence of unknown disturbances.

Title: A Robust Tracking Controller for Robot Manipulators: Embedding Internal Model of Disturbances
Key Words: closed loop systems  control system synthesis  manipulators  nonlinear control systems  observers  robust control  trajectory control  uncertain systems  robust tracking controller  uncertain robot manipulators  disturbance observer based controller  internal model embedding  sinusoids frequencies  stability analysis  2-DOF manipulator  closed-loop system  Disturbance observers  Manipulators  Uncertainty  Stability analysis  Closed loop systems  Torque 
Abstract: This paper presents a robust controller for uncertain robot manipulators subject to disturbances which are composed of sinusoids. The controller employs the disturbance observer based controller which can effectively estimate and compensate the effect of plant uncertainties and the disturbances. Assuming that the frequencies of sinusoids are known, we embed the internal model of disturbances into the proposed controller so that the design parameters of the controller can be chosen without using the magnitude of disturbance or its time derivative. A rigorous stability analysis shows that the closed-loop system under the proposed controller behaves like the nominal closed-loop system free of disturbances. Simulation results for a 2-DOF manipulator show the effectiveness of the proposed controller.

Title: Receding horizon estimation and control with structured noise blocking for mobile robot slip compensation
Key Words: adaptive control  compensation  mobile robots  motion control  optimisation  parameter estimation  predictive control  statistical analysis  wheels  parameter estimation  overlapping-block strategy  receding horizon estimation  mobile robot slip compensation  field robots  uncertain terrain conditions  autonomous navigation  online estimation  wheel-terrain slip characteristics  off-road environments  constrained estimation  receding horizon control  adaptive optimisation-based control method  estimation horizon  structured noise blocking  control predictions  tracking trajectories  RHE  RHC  structured blocking approach  state estimation  Estimation  Adaptation models  Optimization  Wheels  Mobile robots  Parameter estimation 
Abstract: The control of field robots in varying and uncertain terrain conditions presents a challenge for autonomous navigation. Online estimation of the wheel-terrain slip characteristics is essential for generating the accurate control predictions necessary for tracking trajectories in off-road environments. Receding horizon estimation (RHE) provides a powerful framework for constrained estimation, and when combined with receding horizon control (RHC), yields an adaptive optimisation-based control method. Presently, such methods assume slip to be constant over the estimation horizon, while our proposed structured blocking approach relaxes this assumption, resulting in improved state and parameter estimation. We demonstrate and compare the performance of this method in simulation, and propose an overlapping-block strategy to ameliorate some of the limitations encountered in applying noise-blocking in a receding horizon estimation and control (RHEC) context.

Title: Decoupled Control of Position and / or Force of Tendon Driven Fingers
Key Words: actuators  dexterous manipulators  force control  humanoid robots  motion control  position control  torque control  vectors  inner loop impedance controller  joint angle vector  joint torque vector  Cartesian position  finger endpoint  DLR David hand  decoupled control  tendon driven fingers  underactuated robotic hands  DLR AWIWI II hand  David robot  joint torques  generalized forces  motor torques  force control  position control  Tendons  Force  Torque  Robots  Couplings  Position control  Routing 
Abstract: In contrast to underactuated robotic hands the DLR AWIWI II hand of the David robot is fully controllable because each finger with 4 joints is actuated by 6 or 8 tendons respectively. For such fingers all joint angles (generalized positions) or joint torques (generalized forces) can be controlled independently. Usually, the specifications in joint space are converted to desired tendon forces or motor torques, which are regulated by an inner loop impedance controller. However, this conversion typically exhibits couplings between the components of the joint angle vector or the joint torque vector respectively, which arise when using the well known equations. Therefore the usual force control and position control schemes are reviewed and a generic computation of the desired tendon forces is presented. This is also done for the control of the Cartesian position and force at the finger endpoint. Thus the main contribution of the paper is the inhibition of couplings in joint space or at the Cartesian endpoint. This is demonstrated in simulations of the index finger of the DLR David hand.

Title: Reconfigurable Network for Efficient Inferencing in Autonomous Vehicles
Key Words: feature extraction  mobile robots  remotely operated vehicles  road vehicles  robot vision  sensors  reconfigurable network  autonomous vehicles  multiple perception sensors  steering autonomous platforms  gating network  unmanned ground vehicle  UGV  feature extractors  experts  Feature extraction  Sensors  Training  Autonomous vehicles  Task analysis  Computational modeling  Cameras 
Abstract: We propose a reconfigurable network for efficient inference dedicated to autonomous platforms equipped with multiple perception sensors. The size of the network for steering autonomous platforms grows proportionally to the number of installed sensors eventually preventing the usage of multiple sensors in real-time applications due to an inefficient inference. Our approach hinges on the observation that multiple sensors provide a large stream of data, where only a fraction of the data is relevant for the performed task at any given moment in time. The architecture of the reconfigurable network that we propose contains separate feature extractors, called experts, for each sensor. The decisive block of our model is the gating network, which online decides which sensor provides the data that is most relevant for driving. It then reconfigures the network by activating only the relevant expert corresponding to that sensor and deactivating the remaining ones. As a consequence, the model never extracts features from data that are irrelevant for driving. The gating network takes the data from all inputs and thus to avoid explosion of computation time and memory space it has to be realized as a small and shallow network. We verify our model on the unmanned ground vehicle (UGV) comprising of the 1/6 scale remote control truck equipped with three cameras. We demonstrate that the reconfigurable network correctly chooses experts in real-time allowing the reduction of computations cost for the whole model without deteriorating its performance.

Title: Fast Radar Motion Estimation with a Learnt Focus of Attention using Weak Supervision
Key Words: distance measurement  image filtering  image fusion  image segmentation  learning (artificial intelligence)  mobile robots  motion estimation  pose estimation  radar imaging  robot vision  fast radar motion estimation  data association  radar odometry  weak supervision  focus of attention policy  learning algorithm  raw data prefiltering  image segmentation network  radar processing time reduction  field robots  consistent motion estimation  copious annotated measurements  wheel odometry  external ego-motion estimator  short-term sensor coherence  measurement stream  scanning radar  Azimuth  Robot sensing systems  Task analysis  Laser radar  Training  Labeling  radar  sensing  ego-motion estimation  field robotics 
Abstract: This paper is about fast motion estimation with scanning radar. We use weak supervision to train a focus of attention policy which actively down-samples the measurement stream before data association steps are undertaken. At training, we avoid laborious manual labelling by exploiting short-term sensor coherence from multiple poses in the presence of an external ego-motion estimator (for example, wheel odometry). In this way, we generate copious annotated measurements which can be used for training a learning algorithm in a weakly-supervised fashion. We demonstrate the validity of the approach in the context of a Radar Odometry (RO) task, pre-filtering raw data with a popular image segmentation network trained as presented. We evaluate our system against 26 km of data collected in Central Oxford and show consistent motion estimation with greatly reduced radar processing times (by a factor of 2.36).

Title: Learned Map Prediction for Enhanced Mobile Robot Exploration
Key Words: information theory  learning (artificial intelligence)  mobile robots  neural nets  autonomous ground robot  geometric heuristics  information theory  deep learning  mobile robot exploration  generative neural network  2D maps  reinforcement learning  robots behavior  Deep learning  Robot sensing systems  Decoding  Gain measurement  Navigation  Training 
Abstract: We demonstrate an autonomous ground robot capable of exploring unknown indoor environments for reconstructing their 2D maps. This problem has been traditionally tackled by geometric heuristics and information theory. More recently, deep learning and reinforcement learning based approaches have been proposed to learn exploration behavior in an end-to-end manner. We present a method that combines the strengths of these different approaches. Specifically, we employ a state-of-the-art generative neural network to predict unknown regions of a partially explored map, and use the prediction to enhance the exploration in an information-theoretic manner. We evaluate our system in simulation using floor plans of real buildings. We also present comparisons with traditional methods which demonstrate the advantage of our method in terms of exploration efficiency. We retain an advantage over end-to-end learned exploration methods in that the robot's behavior is easily explicable in terms of the predicted map.

Title: Propagation Networks for Model-Based Control Under Partial Observation
Key Words: learning (artificial intelligence)  mobile robots  off-the-shelf physics engines  interaction networks  pairwise interactions  propagation networks  differentiable dynamics model  learnable dynamics model  partially observable scenarios  model-based control  deep reinforcement learning algorithms  robot planning  PropNet  Engines  Task analysis  Force  Robots  Computational modeling  Adaptation models 
Abstract: There has been an increasing interest in learning dynamics simulators for model-based control. Compared with off-the-shelf physics engines, a learnable simulator can quickly adapt to unseen objects, scenes, and tasks. However, existing models like interaction networks only work for fully observable systems; they also only consider pairwise interactions within a single time step, both restricting their use in practical systems. We introduce Propagation Networks (PropNet), a differentiable, learnable dynamics model that handles partially observable scenarios and enables instantaneous propagation of signals beyond pairwise interactions. With these innovations, our propagation networks not only outperform current learnable physics engines in forward simulation, but also achieves superior performance on various control tasks. Compared with existing deep reinforcement learning algorithms, model-based control with propagation networks is more accurate, efficient, and generalizable to novel, partially observable scenes and tasks.

Title: Interactive Trajectory Prediction for Autonomous Driving via Recurrent Meta Induction Neural Network
Key Words: automobiles  estimation theory  learning (artificial intelligence)  mobile robots  recurrent neural nets  road safety  road traffic control  stochastic processes  traffic engineering computing  lane change trajectory  meta-learning framework  autonomous driving data collection  interactive trajectory prediction  interactive driving  autonomous cars  stochastic processes  driving behavior estimation  recurrent neural cell  recurrent meta induction neural network  human-driven cars behaviors  conditional neural process  Trajectory  Automobiles  Autonomous vehicles  Estimation  Generators  Task analysis  Stochastic processes 
Abstract: Interactive driving is challenging but essential for autonomous cars in dense traffic or urban areas. Proper interaction requires understanding and prediction of future trajectories of all neighboring cars around a target vehicle. Current solutions typically assume a certain distribution or stochastic process to approximate human-driven cars' behaviors. To relax this assumption, a Recurrent Meta Induction Network (RMIN) framework is developed. The original Conditional Neural Process (CNP) on which this is based does not consider the sequence of the conditions, due to the permutation invariance requirements for stochastic processes. However, the sequential information is important for the driving behavior estimation. Therefore, in the proposed method, a recurrent neural cell replaces the original demonstration sub-net. The behavior estimation is conditioned on the historical observations for all related cars, including the target car and its surrounding cars. The method is applied to predict the lane change trajectory of a target car in dense traffic areas. The proposed method achieves better results than previous methods and thanks to the meta-learning framework, it can use a smaller dataset, putting fewer demands on autonomous driving data collection.

Title: Studies on Positioning Manipulators Actuated by Solid Media Transmissions
Key Words: actuators  closed loop systems  manipulators  PI control  position control  telerobotics  transmission lines  PI controller  master-slave control  positioning manipulators  PTFE tubing  closed-loop position control  push-only bidirectional transmission  SMT  solid-media transmission  fluidic transmission mechanisms  Manipulators  Kinematics  Robot kinematics  Needles  Strips  Fasteners 
Abstract: Fluidic transmission mechanisms use fluids to transmit force through conduits. We previously presented a transmission mechanism called solid-media transmission (SMT), which uses conduits filled with spheres and spacers for push-only bidirectional transmission. In this paper, we present new designs of SMT-actuated one-degree-of-freedom (DoF) and two-degree-of-freedom positioning manipulators, and report experiment studies to assess their performance. In these studies, closed-loop position control was performed with a PI controller and/or master-slave control. With braided PTFE tubing, SMT exhibited sub-millimeter accuracy, with a tolerance of ±0.05 mm for the tested transmission lines with lengths up to 4m.

Title: Exploiting Bistability for High Force Density Reflexive Gripping
Key Words: control system synthesis  force control  grippers  mobile robots  pneumatic control equipment  vehicles  robotic grasping  mobile vehicles  conventional manipulation  dynamic mobile robots  robotic gripper  mobile platforms  reflexive activation  reflexive gripper  high force density reflexive gripping  pneumatic design  Grippers  Robot sensing systems  Steel  Strain  Grasping 
Abstract: Robotic grasping can enable mobile vehicles to physically interact with the environment for delivery, repositioning, or landing. However, the requirements for grippers on mobile vehicles differ substantially from those used for conventional manipulation. Specifically, grippers for dynamic mobile robots should be capable of rapid activation, high force density, low power consumption, and minimal computation. In this work, we present a biologically-inspired robotic gripper designed specifically for mobile platforms. This design exploits a bistable shell to achieve “reflexive” activation based on contact with the environment. The mechanism can close its grasp within 0. 12s without any sensing or control. Electrical input power is not required for grasping or holding load. The reflexive gripper utilizes a novel pneumatic design to open its grasp with low power, and the gripper can carry slung loads up to 28 times its weight. This new mechanism, including the kinematics, static behavior, control structure, and fabrication, is described in detail. A proof of concept prototype is designed, built, and tested. Experimental results are used to characterize performance and demonstrate the potential of these methods.

Title: Compliant Bistable Gripper for Aerial Perching and Grasping
Key Words: aerospace control  aerospace robotics  autonomous aerial vehicles  grippers  helicopters  mobile robots  motion control  position control  compliant bistable gripper  aerial perching  aerial robots  onboard energy supply  flying robots  perching capability  power lines  monitoring-related tasks  energy-efficient perching mechanism  palm-size quadcopter  aerial grasping  robot weight  quadcopter perch  grasp objects  force  Grippers  Electron tubes  Force  Unmanned aerial vehicles  Springs  Mathematical model  Grasping 
Abstract: Small aerial robots usually face a common challenge: they can only fly for a short time due to their limited onboard energy supply. To tackle this issue, one promising solution is to endow flying robots with perching capability so that they can perch or land on walls, trees, or power lines to rest or recharge. Such perching capability is especially useful for monitoring-related tasks since the robot can maintain a desired height for monitoring without flying. One of the major challenges for perching is to design a light-weight and energy-efficient perching mechanism. In this paper, we present a 3D-printed compliant bistable gripper which is easy to close, stable to hold, and easy to adjust for a palm-size quadcopter to perch on cylindrical objects. If installed on the bottom of aerial robots, it can also be used for aerial grasping. The gripper can be directly activated by the impact force during contact to switch from open state to closed state. It can also hold the quadcopter safely since the required force to open the gripper is larger than the robot weight. We analyze the required forces for closing and opening to provide design guidelines for the mechanism. Experimental results show that the designed gripper can successful make the quadcopter perch on cylinders as well as grasp objects.

Title: MH-iSAM2: Multi-hypothesis iSAM using Bayes Tree and Hypo-tree
Key Words: Bayes methods  data structures  mobile robots  optimisation  SLAM (robots)  original Bayes tree  hypothesis pruning strategy  multihypothesis iSAM  nonlinear incremental optimization algorithm  MH-iSAM2  simultaneous localization and mapping problems  SLAM problems  hypo-tree  multihypothesis inference  data structures  Simultaneous localization and mapping  Zirconium  Maximum likelihood estimation  Optimization  Inference algorithms  Robustness 
Abstract: A novel nonlinear incremental optimization algorithm MH-iSAM2 is developed to handle ambiguity in simultaneous localization and mapping (SLAM) problems in a multi-hypothesis fashion. It can output multiple possible solutions for each variable according to the ambiguous inputs, which is expected to greatly enhance the robustness of autonomous systems as a whole. The algorithm consists of two data structures: an extension of the original Bayes tree that allows efficient multi-hypothesis inference, and a Hypo-tree that is designed to explicitly track and associate the hypotheses of each variable as well as all the inference processes for optimization. With our proposed hypothesis pruning strategy, MH-iSAM2 enables fast optimization and avoids the exponential growth of hypotheses. We evaluate MH-iSAM2 using both simulated datasets and real-world experiments, demonstrating its improvements on the robustness and accuracy of SLAM systems.

Title: Improving Keypoint Matching Using a Landmark-Based Image Representation
Key Words: convolutional neural nets  image matching  image representation  learning (artificial intelligence)  landmark-based image representation  visual loop closure verification  multiview geometry  MVG  deep learning  convolutional neural network features  matched landmark pairs  image representation  verification method  keypoint matching method  ConvNet features  Lighting  Proposals  Visualization  Standards  Feature extraction  Simultaneous localization and mapping  Image representation 
Abstract: Motivated by the need to improve the performance of visual loop closure verification via multi-view geometry (MVG) under significant illumination and viewpoint changes, we propose a keypoint matching method that uses landmarks as an intermediate image representation in order to leverage the power of deep learning. In environments with various changes, the traditional verification method via MVG may encounter difficulty because of their inability to generate a sufficient number of correctly matched keypoints. Our method exploits the excellent invariance properties of convolutional neural network (ConvNet) features, which have shown outstanding performance for matching landmarks between images. By generating and matching landmarks first in the images and then matching the keypoints within the matched landmark pairs, we can significantly improve the quality of matched keypoints in terms of precision and recall measures. The proposed method is validated on challenging datasets that involve significant illumination and viewpoint changes, to establish its superior performance to the standard keypoint matching method.

Title: Fast and Robust Initialization for Visual-Inertial SLAM
Key Words: accelerometers  gyroscopes  inertial navigation  mobile robots  robot vision  SLAM (robots)  visual-inertial SLAM  VI-SLAM  gyroscope  initialization method  visual-inertial bundle adjustment  Cameras  Gravity  Simultaneous localization and mapping  Observability  Feature extraction  Jacobian matrices  Accelerometers 
Abstract: Visual-inertial SLAM (VI-SLAM) requires a good initial estimation of the initial velocity, orientation with respect to gravity and gyroscope and accelerometer biases. In this paper we build on the initialization method proposed by Martinelli [1] and extended by Kaiser et al. [2], modifying it to be more general and efficient. We improve accuracy with several rounds of visual-inertial bundle adjustment, and robustify the method with novel observability and consensus tests, that discard erroneous solutions. Our results on the EuRoC dataset show that, while the original method produces scale errors up to 156%, our method is able to consistently initialize in less than two seconds with scale errors around 5%, which can be further reduced to less than 1% performing visual-inertial bundle adjustment after ten seconds.

Title: Accurate Direct Visual-Laser Odometry with Explicit Occlusion Handling and Plane Detection
Key Words: distance measurement  motion estimation  camera information  mobile platform  direct laser-visual odometry approach building  photometric image alignment  information usage  laser scan  frame-to-frame motion estimate  planar point  individual point clouds  corresponding pixel patches  camera image  extracted planar image patches  nonplanar pixels  pixel alignments  high estimation accuracy  Clearpath Husky platform  competitive estimation accuracy  colored point clouds  accurate direct visual-laser odometry  explicit occlusion handling  plane detection  Three-dimensional displays  Cameras  Measurement by laser beam  Lasers  Estimation  Visual odometry  Motion estimation 
Abstract: In this paper, we address the problem of combining 3D laser scanner and camera information to estimate the motion of a mobile platform. We propose a direct laser-visual odometry approach building upon photometric image alignment. Our approach is designed to maximize the information usage of both, the image and the laser scan, to compute an accurate frame-to-frame motion estimate. To deal with the sparsity of the range measurements, our approach identifies planar point sets within individual point clouds and subsequently extract their corresponding pixel patches from the camera image. The extracted planar image patches are used together with the non-planar pixels to estimate the frame-to-frame motion using a homography formulation capable of incorporating both types of pixel alignments. To achieve high estimation accuracy, we explicitly predict possible occlusions caused by observations taken from different locations. We evaluate our proposed approach using the KITTI dataset as well as data recorded with a Clearpath Husky platform. The experiments suggest that our approach can achieve competitive estimation accuracy and produce consistently registered, colored point clouds.

Title: Efficient Constellation-Based Map-Merging for Semantic SLAM
Key Words: covariance matrices  SLAM (robots)  tree searching  local information  SLAM graph  expensive recovery  system covariance matrix  joint compatibility  search space  clique-based pairwise compatibility  robust object-based loop-closure  SLAM problems  semantic SLAM  data association  high-confidence loop-closure mechanism  object-level SLAM  landmark uncertainty  constellation-based map-merging  branch-and-bound max-cardinality search  Simultaneous localization and mapping  Semantics  Covariance matrices  Uncertainty  Detectors  Search problems  Current measurement 
Abstract: Data association in SLAM is fundamentally challenging, and handling ambiguity well is crucial to achieve robust operation in real-world environments. When ambiguous measurements arise, conservatism often mandates that the measurement is discarded or a new landmark is initialized rather than risking an incorrect association. To address the inevitable “duplicate” landmarks that arise, we present an efficient map-merging framework to detect duplicate constellations of landmarks, providing a high-confidence loop-closure mechanism well-suited for object-level SLAM. This approach uses an incrementally-computable approximation of landmark uncertainty that only depends on local information in the SLAM graph, avoiding expensive recovery of the full system covariance matrix. This enables a search based on geometric consistency (GC) (rather than full joint compatibility (JC)) that inexpensively reduces the search space to a handful of “best” hypotheses. Furthermore, we reformulate the commonly-used interpretation tree to allow for more efficient integration of clique-based pairwise compatibility, accelerating the branch-and-bound max-cardinality search. Our method is demonstrated to match the performance of full JC methods at significantly-reduced computational cost, facilitating robust object-based loop-closure over large SLAM problems.

Title: Learning Robust Manipulation Strategies with Multimodal State Transition Models and Recovery Heuristics
Key Words: control engineering computing  learning (artificial intelligence)  manipulator dynamics  mobile robots  optimisation  robot programming  contact dynamics  reinforcement learning  recovery skills  multiple contact state changes  multimodal state transition model  recovery heuristics  contact-based manipulations  robust manipulation strategies learning  skill selections  Task analysis  End effectors  Robustness  Data models  Planning  Clustering algorithms 
Abstract: Robots are prone to making mistakes when performing manipulation tasks in unstructured environments. Robust policies are thus needed to not only avoid mistakes but also to recover from them. We propose a framework for increasing the robustness of contact-based manipulations by modeling the task structure and optimizing a policy for selecting skills and recovery skills. A multimodal state transition model is acquired based on the contact dynamics of the task and the observed transitions. A policy is then learned from the model using reinforcement learning. The policy is incrementally improved by expanding the action space by generating recovery skills with a heuristic. Evaluations on three simulated manipulation tasks demonstrate the effectiveness of the framework. The robot was able to complete the tasks despite multiple contact state changes and errors encountered, increasing the success rate averaged across the tasks from 70.0% to 95.3%.

Title: Adaptive Critic Based Optimal Kinematic Control for a Robot Manipulator
Key Words: adaptive control  closed loop systems  control system synthesis  end effectors  Lyapunov methods  manipulator dynamics  manipulator kinematics  motion control  optimal control  position control  stability  time-varying systems  tracking  robot manipulator  robot end effector position  task space trajectory  desired velocity profile  single network adaptive critic  forward kinematics  input affine system  critic weight update law  desired optimal cost  closed loop kinematic control  optimal regulation problem  SNAC based kinematic control  optimal tracking problem  tracking error  reference trajectory  optimal control policy  kinematic control scheme  Universal Robot 10 manipulator  adaptive critic based optimal kinematic control  Kinematics  Manipulators  Trajectory  Optimal control  Cost function  Stability analysis 
Abstract: This paper is concerned with the optimal kinematic control of a robot manipulator where the robot end effector position follows a task space trajectory. The joints are actuated with the desired velocity profile to achieve this task. This problem has been solved using a single network adaptive critic (SNAC) by expressing the forward kinematics as input affine system. Usually in SNAC, the critic weights are updated using back propagation algorithm while little attention is given to convergence to the optimal cost. In this paper, we propose a critic weight update law that ensures convergence to the desired optimal cost while guaranteeing the stability of the closed loop kinematic control. In kinematic control, the robot is required to reach a specific target position. This has been solved as an optimal regulation problem in the context of SNAC based kinematic control. When the robot is required to follow a time varying task space trajectory, then the kinematic control has been framed as an optimal tracking problem. For tracking, an augmented system consisting of tracking error and reference trajectory is constructed and the optimal control policy is derived using SNAC framework. The stability and performance of the system under the proposed novel weight tuning law is guaranteed using Lyapunov approach. The proposed kinematic control scheme has been validated in simulations and experimentally executed using a real six degrees of freedom (DOF) Universal Robot (UR) 10 manipulator.

Title: Manipulability Optimization Control of a Serial Redundant Robot for Robot-assisted Minimally Invasive Surgery
Key Words: compliance control  end effectors  manipulator dynamics  medical robotics  motion control  optimisation  redundant manipulators  surgery  manipulability optimization control  serial redundant robot  robot-assisted minimally invasive surgery  7-DoF robot manipulator  RCM constraint  hierarchical operational space formulation  Cartesian compliance control  null-space controller  control components integration  remote center of motion  end-effector accuracy  Robots  Task analysis  Optimization  Surgery  Aerospace electronics  Redundancy  Trajectory 
Abstract: This paper proposes a manipulability optimization control of a 7-DoF robot manipulator for Robot-Assisted Minimally Invasive Surgery (RAMIS), which at the same time guarantees a Remote Center of Motion (RCM). The first degree of redundancy of the manipulator is used to achieve an RCM constraint, the second one is adopted for manipulability optimization. A hierarchical operational space formulation is introduced to integrate all the control components, including a Cartesian compliance control involving the main surgical task, a first null-space controller for the RCM constraint, and a second null-space controller for manipulability optimization. Experiments with virtual surgical tasks, in an augmented reality environment, were performed to validate the proposed control strategy using the KUKA LWR 4 +. The results demonstrate that end-effector accuracy and RCM constraint can be guaranteed, along with improving the manipulability of the surgical tip.

Title: Accounting for Part Pose Estimation Uncertainties during Trajectory Generation for Part Pick-Up Using Mobile Manipulators
Key Words: grippers  learning (artificial intelligence)  mobile robots  optimisation  path planning  pose estimation  position control  probability  mobile base trajectory  active learning based approach  optimization-based framework  time-optimal trajectories  part pose estimation uncertainties  trajectory generation  part pick-up  mobile manipulators  operation time  gripper  Grippers  Grasping  Trajectory  Uncertainty  Physics  End effectors 
Abstract: To minimize the operation time, mobile manipulators need to pick-up parts while the mobile base and the gripper are moving. The gripper speed needs to be selected to ensure that the pick-up operation does not fail due to uncertainties in part pose estimation. This, in turn, affects the mobile base trajectory. This paper presents an active learning based approach to construct a meta-model to estimate the probability of successful part pick-up for a given level of uncertainty in the part pose estimate. Using this model, we present an optimization-based framework to generate time-optimal trajectories that satisfy the given level of success probability threshold for picking-up the part.

Title: Adapting Everyday Manipulation Skills to Varied Scenarios
Key Words: control engineering computing  manipulators  mobile robots  motion control  robot vision  service robots  point clouds  target object  tool-using manipulation skills  motion trajectories  scraping material  robot perception module  PR2 robot  Tools  Task analysis  Robots  Three-dimensional displays  Trajectory  Containers  Dairy products 
Abstract: We address the problem of executing tool-using manipulation skills in scenarios where the objects to be used may vary. We assume that point clouds of the tool and target object can be obtained, but no interpretation or further knowledge about these objects is provided. The system must interpret the point clouds and decide how to use the tool to complete a manipulation task with a target object; this means it must adjust motion trajectories appropriately to complete the task. We tackle three everyday manipulations: scraping material from a tool into a container, cutting, and scooping from a container. Our solution encodes these manipulation skills in a generic way, with parameters that can be filled in at run-time via queries to a robot perception module; the perception module abstracts the functional parts of the tool and extracts key parameters that are needed for the task. The approach is evaluated in simulation and with selected examples on a PR2 robot.

Title: Feedback Control and 3D Motion of Heterogeneous Janus Particles
Key Words: chemical engineering  closed loop systems  feedback  open loop systems  position control  propulsion  vectors  3D closed loop control system  3D motion  self-actuated particles  open loop 3D control  2D feedback control  triaxial approximate Helmholtz coil system  propulsion vectors  heterogeneous chemically catalyzing Janus particles  Conferences  Automation 
Abstract: This paper presents 2D feedback control and open loop 3D trajectories of heterogeneous chemically catalyzing Janus particles. Self-actuated particles have enormous implications for both in vivo and in vitro environments, which make them a diverse resource for a variety of medical and assembly applications. Janus particles, consisting of cobalt and platinum hemispheres, can self-propel in hydrogen peroxide solutions due to platinum's catalyzation properties. These particles are directionally controlled using static magnetic fields produced from a triaxial approximate Helmholtz coil system. Since the magnetization direction of Janus particles is often heterogeneous, and thereby not consistent with the propulsion direction, this creates a unique opportunity to explore the motion effects of these particles under 2D feedback control and open loop 3D control. Using a modified closed loop controller, Janus particles with magnetization both closely aligned and greatly misaligned to the propulsion vectors, were instructed to perform complex trajectories. These trajectories were then compared between trials to measure both consistency and accuracy. The effects of increasing offset between the magnetization and propulsion vectors were also analyzed. The effects this heterogeneity had on 3D motion is also briefly discussed. It is our hope going forward to develop a 3D closed loop control system that can retroactively account for variations in the magnetization vector.

Title: Data-Driven Gait Segmentation for Walking Assistance in a Lower-Limb Assistive Device
Key Words: biomechanics  gait analysis  legged locomotion  medical robotics  nonlinear control systems  patient rehabilitation  predictive control  robot dynamics  robot kinematics  data-driven gait segmentation  walking assistance  lower-limb assistive device  hybrid systems  bipedal walker  nonlinear dynamics  hybrid mode  reliable state sensing  data-driven analysis  data-driven dynamics identification  model predictive control  hybrid SLIP model  gait partitioning  human walking data  kinematics data  online assistance  predefined gait structure  healthy gaits  pathological gaits  impairment-specific rehabilitation strategies  Heuristic algorithms  Mathematical model  Data models  Predictive models  Prediction algorithms  System dynamics  Switches 
Abstract: Hybrid systems, such as bipedal walkers, are challenging to control because of discontinuities in their nonlinear dynamics. Little can be predicted about the systems' evolution without modeling the guard conditions that govern transitions between hybrid modes, so even systems with reliable state sensing can be difficult to control. We propose an algorithm that allows for determining the hybrid mode of a system in real-time using data-driven analysis. The algorithm is used with data-driven dynamics identification to enable model predictive control based entirely on data. Two examples-a simulated hopper and experimental data from a bipedal walker-are used. In the context of the first example, we are able to closely approximate the dynamics of a hybrid SLIP model and then successfully use them for control in simulation. In the second example, we demonstrate gait partitioning of human walking data, accurately differentiating between stance and swing, as well as selected subphases of swing. We identify contact events, such as heel strike and toe-off, without a contact sensor using only kinematics data from the knee and hip joints, which could be particularly useful in providing online assistance during walking. Our algorithm does not assume a predefined gait structure or gait phase transitions, lending itself to segmentation of both healthy and pathological gaits. With this flexibility, impairment-specific rehabilitation strategies or assistance could be designed.

Title: Closed-loop MPC with Dense Visual SLAM - Stability through Reactive Stepping
Key Words: approximation theory  closed loop systems  humanoid robots  legged locomotion  mobile robots  motion control  nonlinear control systems  path planning  pendulums  position control  predictive control  SLAM (robots)  stability  fundamental capacity  external inputs  reference velocity  footstep plans  reference motion  external disturbances  closed-loop MPC scheme  proprioceptive sensors  imperfect open-loop control execution  HRP-4 humanoid robot  reactive stepping  walking gaits  humanoid locomotion  model predictive control  pendulum  dense visual SLAM stability  Simultaneous localization and mapping  Foot  Legged locomotion  Humanoid robots  Lips 
Abstract: Walking gaits generated using Model Predictive Control (MPC) is widely used due to its capability to handle several constraints that characterize humanoid locomotion. The use of simplified models such as the Linear Inverted Pendulum allows to perform computations in real-time, giving the robot the fundamental capacity to replan its motion to follow external inputs (e.g. reference velocity, footstep plans). However, usually the MPC does not take into account the current state of the robot when computing the reference motion, losing the ability to react to external disturbances. In this paper a closed-loop MPC scheme is proposed to estimate the robot's real state through Simultaneous Localization and Mapping (SLAM) and proprioceptive sensors (force/torque). With the proposed control scheme it is shown that the robot is able to react to external disturbances (push), by stepping to recover from the loss of balance. Moreover the localization allows the robot to navigate to target positions in the environment without being affected by the drift generated by imperfect open-loop control execution. We validate the proposed scheme through two different experiments with a HRP-4 humanoid robot.

Title: Safe 3D Bipedal Walking through Linear MPC with 3D Capturability
Key Words: collision avoidance  gait analysis  legged locomotion  manipulator dynamics  nonlinear control systems  predictive control  trajectory control  complete kinematic feasibility guarantees  dynamic feasibility guarantees  piecewise horizontal ground  vertical motion  linear constraints  nonlinear constraint  linear MPC scheme  online computation  reactive walking motions  physical collaboration  collision avoidance  fully adaptable height  adaptable step placement  safe 3D bipedal walking  3D capturability constraint  Legged locomotion  Trajectory  Collision avoidance  Kinematics  Three-dimensional displays  Dynamics 
Abstract: We propose a linear MPC scheme for online computation of reactive walking motions, necessary for fast interactions such as physical collaboration with humans or collision avoidance in crowds. Unlike other existing schemes, it provides fully adaptable height, adaptable step placement and complete kinematic and dynamic feasibility guarantees, making it possible to walk perfectly safely on a piecewise horizontal ground such as stairs. A linear formulation is proposed, based on efficiently bounding the nonlinear term introduced by vertical motion, considering two linear constraints instead of one nonlinear constraint. Balance and Passive Safety guarantees are secured by enforcing a 3D capturability constraint. Based on a comparison between CoM and CoP trajectories involving exponentials instead of polynomials, this capturability constraint involves a CoM motion stopping along a segment of line, always maintaining complete kinematic and dynamic feasibility.

Title: Feedback motion planning of legged robots by composing orbital Lyapunov functions using rapidly-exploring random trees
Key Words: feedback  learning (artificial intelligence)  legged locomotion  Lyapunov methods  neurocontrollers  path planning  random processes  sampling methods  trajectory control  trees (mathematics)  feedback motion planning  legged robots  orbital Lyapunov functions  sampling-based framework  Poincaré section  multiple trajectory optimization problems  rapidly-exploring random tree algorithm  regions of attraction  deep learning neural networks  Limit-cycles  Planning  Legged locomotion  Lyapunov methods  Force  Trajectory optimization 
Abstract: We present a sampling-based framework for feedback motion planning of legged robots. Our framework is based on switching between limit cycles at a fixed instance of motion, the Poincaré section (e.g., apex or touchdown), by finding overlaps between the regions of attraction (ROA) of two limit cycles. First, we assume a candidate orbital Lyapunov function (OLF) and define a ROA at the Poincaré section. Next, we solve multiple trajectory optimization problems, one for each sampled initial condition on the ROA to minimize an energy metric and subject to the exponential convergence of the OLF between two steps. The result is a table of control actions and the corresponding initial conditions at the Poincaré section. Then we develop a control policy for each control action as a function of the initial condition using deep learning neural networks. The control policy is validated by testing on initial conditions sampled on ROA of randomly chosen limit cycles. Finally, the rapidly-exploring random tree algorithm is adopted to plan transitions between the limit cycles using the ROAs. The approach is demonstrated on a hopper model to achieve velocity and height transitions between steps.

Title: Online Walking Pattern Generation for Humanoid Robot with Compliant Motion Control
Key Words: humanoid robots  legged locomotion  motion control  pendulums  position control  predictive control  robot dynamics  stability  DYROS-JET  CoM trajectory  center-of-mass  zero-moment point  linear inverted pendulum model  second-order system  preview control  dynamics model  motion controller  real-time walking pattern generation  humanoid robot walking  position tracking performance  walking stability  compliant motion control  online walking pattern generation  Legged locomotion  Trajectory  Humanoid robots  Foot  Stability analysis 
Abstract: The compliant motion of humanoid robots is one of their most important characteristics for interacting with humans and various environments in the real world. During walking, compliant motion ensures stable contact between the foot and ground, but walking stability is degraded by position tracking performance and unknown disturbances. To address the issue of instability of humanoid robot walking with compliant motion control, this paper proposes a model for real-time walking pattern generation considering the motion control performance of a robot. The dynamic model of a robot with a motion controller is described as a second-order system approximating position tracking performance with a linear inverted pendulum model to determine the relationship between the zero-moment point and center of mass (CoM). The CoM trajectory is calculated using preview control based on the dynamics model and current state of the robot. Therefore, even if the robot has the low tracking performance due to compliant motion control, the walking stability can be ensured. The proposed method was implemented on our humanoid robot, DYROS-JET, and its performance was demonstrated through improved stability during walking.

Title: A Kalman Filter-Based Algorithm for Simultaneous Time Synchronization and Localization in UWB Networks
Key Words: indoor radio  Kalman filters  mobile robots  path planning  position control  radionavigation  synchronisation  time-of-arrival estimation  transceivers  ultra wideband communication  EKF-based navigation system design  mobile robot positioning  Kalman filter-based algorithm  UWB transceivers  ultra-wideband wireless communication transceivers  time difference of arrival  TDOA  passive UWB receivers  UWB networks  ranging-based positioning systems  simultaneous time synchronization-localization  signal time-of-flight measurement  time of arrival  TOA  multiple UWB base station synchronization  Clocks  Synchronization  Protocols  Distance measurement  Thermodynamics  Transceivers 
Abstract: The ability to accurately measure signal time-of-flight between ultra-wideband (UWB) wireless communication transceivers, even in multipath environments, makes this technology ideally suited to develop ranging-based positioning systems, especially for indoor applications where GPS signals are not available. In recent years, low-cost commercial UWB transceivers have become more easily available and increasingly used to develop custom robot positioning systems. In this paper, we focus in particular on positioning techniques requiring the synchronization of base stations such as Time of Arrival (TOA) and Time Difference of Arrival (TDOA). We present a protocol based on Kalman filtering for simultaneous synchronization of multiple UWB base stations and positioning of an arbitrary number of passive UWB receivers. We illustrate experimentally using our protocol and an EKF-based navigation system design the level of accuracy achievable with small low-power UWB modules for mobile robot positioning. We discuss in details measurement errors and system tuning issues applicable to popular commercial UWB transceivers.

Title: eRTIS: A Fully Embedded Real Time 3D Imaging Sonar Sensor for Robotic Applications
Key Words: image sensors  microphone arrays  mobile robots  robot vision  sonar imaging  fully embedded real time 3D imaging sonar sensor  robotic application  reflection strength  sensor systems  crucial pieces  processing power  external computing device  3D sonar sensor  3D localization capabilities  field-of-view  3D perception  harsh conditions  Robot sensing systems  Three-dimensional displays  Microphone arrays  Computer architecture  Field programmable gate arrays 
Abstract: Many popular advanced sonar systems provide accurate and reliable measurements containing crucial info needed by robotic applications such as range, bearing and reflection strength of the objects in the field of view. While these sensor systems provide these crucial pieces of information accurately, they are often limited by a lack of processing power and/or size which leads to them needing an external computing device to process all the information generated by the microphone array on the sensor. In this paper we present two versions of a novel fully embedded 3D sonar sensor which have different sensing architectures which enable 3D perception for robotic application in harsh conditions using ultrasound at low cost. Experimental results taken from an office environment will show the 3D localization capabilities and performance of the sensor, showing the sensor has a large field-of-view (FoV) with accurate 3D localization combined with real-time capabilities.

Title: LookUP: Vision-Only Real-Time Precise Underground Localisation for Autonomous Mining Vehicles
Key Words: cameras  image sensors  mining  mining industry  mobile robots  neural nets  robot vision  autonomous underground mining vehicles  neural-network-based pixel sampling strategy  visual based technique  real-time accurate localisation system  range sensor-based system  ceiling-facing cameras  Optical imaging  Cameras  Optical sensors  Adaptive optics  Heating systems  Optical network units  Real-time systems 
Abstract: A key capability for autonomous underground mining vehicles is real-time accurate localisation. While significant progress has been made, currently deployed systems have several limitations ranging from dependence on costly additional infrastructure to failure of both visual and range-sensor-based techniques in highly aliased or visually challenging environments. In our previous work, we presented a lightweight coarse vision-based localisation system that could map and then localise to within a few metres in an underground mining environment. However, this level of precision is insufficient for providing a cheaper, more reliable vision-based automation alternative to current range sensor-based systems. Here we present a new precision localisation system dubbed “LookUP”, which learns a neural-network-based pixel sampling strategy for estimating homographies based on ceiling-facing cameras without requiring any manual labelling. This new system runs in real time on limited computation resource and is demonstrated on two different underground mine sites, achieving real time performance at ~5 frames per second and a much improved average localisation error of ~1.2 metre.

Title: Analysis of Robust Functions for Registration Algorithms
Key Words: image registration  iterative methods  mobile robots  robust functions  registration algorithms  registration accuracy  mobile robotic application  iterative closest point algorithm  environment types  outlier filters  ICP algorithm  M-estimators  tuning parameters  Three-dimensional displays  Cost function  Minimization  Tuning  Robot sensing systems  Two dimensional displays 
Abstract: Registration accuracy is influenced by the presence of outliers and numerous robust solutions have been developed over the years to mitigate their effect. However, without a large scale comparison of solutions to filter outliers, it is becoming tedious to select an appropriate algorithm for a given application. This paper presents a comprehensive analysis of the effects of outlier filters on the Iterative Closest Point (ICP) algorithm aimed at a mobile robotic application. Fourteen of the most common outlier filters (such as M-estimators) have been tested in different types of environments, for a total of more than two million registrations. Furthermore, the influence of tuning parameters has been thoroughly explored. The experimental results show that most outlier filters have a similar performance if they are correctly tuned. Nonetheless, filters such as Var. Trim., Cauchy, and Cauchy MAD are more stable against different environment types. Interestingly, the simple norm L1 produces comparable accuracy, while being parameterless.

Title: CoLo: A Performance Evaluation System for Multi-robot Cooperative Localization Algorithms
Key Words: cooperative systems  data analysis  location based services  multi-robot systems  performance evaluation  performance evaluation system  physical experiment  CoLo-PE  software analysis tool  algorithm evaluation  CoLo-AT  multirobot cooperative localization algorithms  multirobot localization data collection  robot location  Robots  Automation  Read only memory 
Abstract: This paper describes CoLo - a performance evaluation system for two-dimensional cooperative localization algorithms. The system consists of a physical experiment (CoLo-PE) for data collection and a software analysis tool (CoLo-AT) using real-world datasets to evaluate the performances of users' cooperative localization algorithms. This paper details the design and operation of the physical experiment (CoLo-PE) and discusses the functionalities and uses of the software analysis tool (CoLo-AT) for algorithm evaluation. Specifically, CoLo allows researchers to conveniently add their cooperative localization algorithms and test them extensively on different real-world datasets with various settings. CoLo is available at https://git.uclalemur.com/billyskc/CoLo.

Title: A cane-based low cost sensor to implement attention mechanisms in telecare robots
Key Words: force sensors  geriatrics  health care  medical robotics  telemedicine  telerobotics  attention mechanisms  telecare robots  telepresence robots  cyclic checks  caregivers  CGA robots  comprehensive geriatric assessment  cane-based low cost force sensor system  Robot sensing systems  Legged locomotion  Shafts  Force sensors  Monitoring  Standards 
Abstract: Telepresence robots have been recently used for Comprehensive Geriatric Assessment (CGA). Since the robot can not track a person continuously, there are several strategies to decide when to check them, from cyclic checks to simple requests from users and/or caregivers. In order to adapt to the user needs and condition, it is preferable to perform CGA as soon as regularities appear. However, this requires detection of potential issues in users to offer immediate service. In this work we propose a new low cost force sensor system to detect user's condition and attract attention of CGA robots, so they can perform a full examination on a need basis. The main advantages of this system are: i) it can be attached to any standard commercial cane; ii) its power consumption is very reduced; and iii) it provides continuous information as long as the user walks. It has been tested with several elderly volunteers in care facilities. Results have proven that the sensor readings are indeed correlated with the users' condition.

Title: A Deployable Soft Robotic Arm with Stiffness Modulation for Assistive Living Applications
Key Words: actuators  assisted living  biomechanics  handicapped aids  human-robot interaction  manipulator kinematics  medical robotics  mobile robots  motion control  pneumatic actuators  service robots  deployable soft robotic arm  assistive living applications  three-tendon actuated continuum robot  elderly impaired individuals  physically impaired individuals  daily living  Yoshimura pattern  controlled deployment  length variation  pneumatic stiffness mechanism  stiffness modulation approach  actuation system  assistive robots  Manipulators  Modulation  Pneumatic systems  Tendons  Soft robotics 
Abstract: This paper presents a three-tendon actuated continuum robot with an origami backbone to assist the elderly and physically impaired individuals in performing activities of daily living. The proposed design solution is an inherently safe and cost-effective alternative to current assistive robots. The origami backbone based on a variation of the Yoshimura pattern provides controlled deployment of the robot and enables length variation (15 cm - 56 cm) in order to increase the reachable workspace. A pneumatic stiffness mechanism was implemented, increasing the weight bearing capabilities of the continuum robot to 500 g. This new stiffness modulation approach was assessed with the use of several testing rigs. Additionally, the robot is joypad controlled and is easily transportable due to its high packing efficiency of 73% and light weight of 1.3 kg for the main body (including the actuation system). For demonstration of usability studies, the robot was successfully tested at a simulated kitchen terminal and also performed pick and place tasks.

Title: Development of a Novel Gait Rehabilitation Device with Hip Interaction and a Single DOF Mechanism
Key Words: actuators  gait analysis  legged locomotion  medical robotics  patient rehabilitation  trajectory control  hip interaction  single DOF mechanism  low-cost lower extremity gait rehabilitation device  single actuator  single DOF 8-bar Jansen mechanism  efficient walking mechanism  legged robots  ankle trajectory  human gait  lower limb  custom designed seat-type weight support system  donning-doffing action  weight-bearing  effective user-friendly training environment  gait training  Trajectory  Hip  Legged locomotion  Training  Couplings  Timing  Actuators 
Abstract: In this paper, a novel, low-cost lower extremity gait rehabilitation device using a single actuator is presented. The proposed device is based on a single DOF 8-bar Jansen mechanism, which was recently introduced as an efficient walking mechanism for legged robots. The mechanism is synthesized to generate the ankle trajectory during human gait relative to the hip, in terms of both position and time. Two mechanisms, one for each lower limb, are applied reciprocally and mechanically synchronized to guarantee symmetric gait. A custom designed seat-type weight support system is also introduced. It supports weight of the user and mechanisms, and also provides the required interaction while maintaining mobility at the hip. To accommodate different users, several parameters of the mechanism are adjustable. Ease of donning-doffing action, weight-bearing and possibility of unhindered arm swing have been considered to provide an effective and user-friendly training environment. A prototype is manufactured, and a pilot study with a healthy subject is conducted to demonstrate feasibility of the concept. Due to ease of control, cost-effectiveness and high intrinsic safety, the proposed system potentially offers a possible method of gait training.

Title: Differentially-Clutched Series Elastic Actuator for Robot-Aided Musculoskeletal Rehabilitation
Key Words: actuators  biomechanics  brakes  clutches  human-robot interaction  medical robotics  motion control  patient rehabilitation  robot dynamics  safety  shafts  springs (mechanical)  torque control  human-robot interaction  robot-aided rehabilitation  upper limb musculoskeletal injuries  lower limb musculoskeletal injuries  robot-aided musculoskeletal rehabilitation  actuation modes  differentially-clutched series elastic actuator  safety  compliant nature  DC motor  torsion spring  magnetic particle brake  differential gear  topology  free motion  elastic motion  assistive motion  resistive motion  actuator dynamic model  reference torque  Actuators  Brakes  DC motors  Springs  Gears  Robots  Safety 
Abstract: Series elastic actuators have proven to be an elegant response to the issue of safety around human-robot interaction. The compliant nature of series elastic actuators provides the potential to be applied in robot-aided rehabilitation for patients with upper and lower limb musculoskeletal injuries. This paper proposes a new series elastic actuator to be used in robot-aided musculoskeletal rehabilitation. The actuator is composed of a DC motor, a torsion spring, and a magnetic particle brake coupled to one common output shaft through a differential gear. The proposed topology focuses on three types of actuation modes most commonly used in rehabilitation, i.e., free motion, elastic, and assistive/resistive motion. A dynamic model of the actuator is presented and validated experimentally and the ability of the actuator to follow a reference torque is shown in different experimental scenarios.

Title: A Novel Robotic Suturing System for Flexible Endoscopic Surgery
Key Words: biomedical optical imaging  endoscopes  medical robotics  surgery  wound closure  robotic suturing system  five-degree-of-freedom robotic suturing instrument  suturing tasks  flexible endoscopic surgery  Surgery  Endoscopes  Needles  Instruments  Manipulators  Tools 
Abstract: Perforations in flexible endoscopy are life-threatening. Defect closure or suturing in flexible endoscopy has long been a critical challenge due to the confined space of the access routes and surgical sites, high dexterity and force demands of suturing tasks, as well as critical size and strength requirements of wound closure. This paper introduces a novel robotic suturing system for flexible endoscopic surgery. This system features a flexible, through-the-scope, five-degree-of-freedom robotic suturing instrument. This instrument allows the surgeon to endoscopically manipulate a needle via a master console to create running stitches and knots in flexible endoscopy, which is not possible with existing devices. Successful ex-vivo trials were conducted inside porcine colons to show how surgical stitches and knots can be endoscopically created and secured in a completely new way. This new technology will change the way how surgeons close defects or perforations in flexible endoscopic surgery.

Title: A Noninvasive Approach to Recovering the Lost Force Feedback for a Robotic-Assisted Insertable Laparoscopic Surgical Camera
Key Words: biological tissues  biomedical optical imaging  cameras  force measurement  medical robotics  surgery  camera actuation  rotation camera behaviors  simulated abdominal cavity  noninvasive real-time camera-tissue interaction force measurement approach  abdominal wall tissue  robotic-assisted camera control experiment  laparoscopic imaging  transabdominal magnetic coupling  minimally invasive surgery  conventional trocar-based laparoscopes  insertable laparoscopic camera  robotic-assisted insertable laparoscopic surgical camera  lost force feedback  noninvasive approach  Cameras  Force  Robot vision systems  Stators  Actuators  Force measurement 
Abstract: Fully insertable laparoscopic cameras feature more locomotive flexibility in a larger workspace compared to conventional trocar-based laparoscopes and thus represent a promising future of minimally invasive surgery. These cameras are principally anchored and actuated by transabdominal magnetic coupling. Although several proof-of-concept prototypes have shown the technical feasibility in terms of camera actuation and laparoscopic imaging, none of them are getting close to clinical practice due to concerns about safety. One common problem lies in that the interaction force between the camera and the abdominal wall tissue is completely unknown and not controlled. The camera is being manipulated in an open loop which exposes the patient to a high risk of being injured. In this paper, a noninvasive real-time camera-tissue interaction force measurement approach for an insertable laparoscopic camera is proposed, implemented, and validated.Ex-vivo experiments using a simulated abdominal cavity have demonstrated the effectiveness of this approach during anchoring, translation, and rotation camera behaviors. Potential surgical impacts enabled by the force feedback have also been exemplified by a robotic-assisted camera control experiment using shared autonomy.

Title: Development of a Multi-level Stiffness Soft Robotic Module with Force Haptic Feedback for Endoscopic Applications*
Key Words: endoscopes  finite element analysis  medical robotics  surgery  3D kinematics control  finite element analysis  maneuverability  endoscopic module  endoscopic surgical interventions  structural stiffness  haptic feedback control  force sensing module  multilevel stiffening mechanism  soft robotics endoscope  surgical manipulators  natural orifice transluminal endoscopic surgeries  minimally invasive orifice transluminal endoscopic surgeries  soft endoscopes  endoscopic applications  force haptic feedback  multilevel stiffness soft robotic module  Endoscopes  Haptic interfaces  Force  Surgery  Sensors  Phantoms  Control systems 
Abstract: Despite the recent advances in soft endoscopes, they could not yet fully fulfill the requirements for minimally invasive and natural orifice transluminal endoscopic surgeries. Maneuverability, bendability, different structural stiffness required for different endoscopic surgical interventions, the space needed for surgical manipulators and patient's safety are amongst the main factors which can contribute to implementing the new soft robotics endoscope in practice. In this study, based on finite element analysis on an existing endoscopic segment, a new improved endoscopic module was developed. A novel approach for stiffening of the endoscopic module was proposed. The actuation and stiffening components were combined to introduce a multi-level stiffening mechanism to the endoscope, and also to provide a free lumen for manipulators. To increase patient's safety, a force sensing module was developed to estimate the magnitude and direction of the force from tissues to the endoscope. The developed endoscopic system was integrated to a haptic control system. The 3D kinematics control and haptic feedback control of the endoscopic module were validated.

Title: Feasibility Study of Robotic Needles with a Rotational Tip-Joint and Notch Patterns
Key Words: industrial robots  needles  nickel alloys  rods (structures)  springs (mechanical)  titanium alloys  laser machining  cosserat rod theory  spring model  dynamic region RRT  planning algorithm  tissue reaction  microtools  embedded rotational tip joint  proximal notch patterns  steerable needle  robotic needles  Needles  Fasteners  Electron tubes  Tendons  Force  Robots  Planning 
Abstract: In this paper, we present the design of a steerable needle with proximal notch patterns for compliance and an embedded rotational tip joint for articulation. The device is fabricated by laser machining NiTi tube so that an inner working channel exists (to enable delivery of fluids, drugs or microtools) and no assembly is required for the joints. We formulate its model based on the classical Cosserat Rod theory. This is extended with incremental state prediction and a simple spring model for tissue reaction to integrate into a planning algorithm based on Dynamic Region RRT which efficiently explores the needle's state space. The planner was initialized with a target zone and arbitrary anatomical obstacles before running simulations which propagated incremental state changes at every step while adhering to constraints based on the physical system. Finally, we demonstrate the steering capability of the needle through insertion tests into a phantom.

Title: Autonomous Laparoscopic Robotic Suturing with a Novel Actuated Suturing Tool and 3D Endoscope
Key Words: biological tissues  biomedical optical imaging  endoscopes  medical image processing  medical robotics  surgery  STAR  laparoscopic suturing tool  suture repositioning  suture spacing  suture pads  suture planning strategy  3D imaging endoscope  smart tissue anastomosis robot  autonomous laparoscopic robotic suturing system  surgical tools  laparoscopic surgery  patient recovery time  collateral tissue damage  laparoscopic surgical methods  open surgical techniques  Tools  Three-dimensional displays  Laparoscopes  Surgery  Robot kinematics  Imaging 
Abstract: Compared to open surgical techniques, laparoscopic surgical methods aim to reduce the collateral tissue damage and hence decrease the patient recovery time. However, constraints imposed by the laparoscopic surgery, i.e. the operation of surgical tools in limited spaces, turn simple surgical tasks such as suturing into time-consuming and inconsistent tasks for surgeons. In this paper, we develop an autonomous laparoscopic robotic suturing system. More specific, we expand our smart tissue anastomosis robot (STAR) by developing i) a new 3D imaging endoscope, ii) a novel actuated laparoscopic suturing tool, and iii) a suture planning strategy for the autonomous suturing. We experimentally test the accuracy and consistency of our developed system and compare it to sutures performed manually by surgeons. Our test results on suture pads indicate that STAR can reach 2.9 times better consistency in suture spacing compared to manual method and also eliminate suture repositioning and adjustments. Moreover, the consistency of suture bite sizes obtained by STAR matches with those obtained by manual suturing.

Title: Active Contraints for Tool-Shaft Collision Avoidance in Minimally Invasive Surgery
Key Words: force control  medical robotics  surgery  telerobotics  tool-shaft collision avoidance  clinical adoption  master-slave surgical systems  physical separation  Active Constraints  sensory information  surgical robot operators  haptic cues  visual cues  audible cues  surgical tool-clashing  elasto-plastic frictional force control  ACs methods  teleoperated da Vinci Surgical System  ACs assistance  teleoperation-based robotic-assisted minimally invasive surgery  minimally invasive partial nephrectomy  Force  Tools  Surgery  Image segmentation  Arteries  Shafts  Robots 
Abstract: Recent advances in teleoperation-based robotic-assisted Minimally Invasive Surgery (MIS) have made significant inroads in clinical adoption. However, such master-slave surgical systems create a physical separation between the surgeon and the patient. The concept of Active Constraints (ACs) provides guidance and sensory information to surgical robot operators in a form of haptic, visual or audible cues. This work proposes a novel ACs approach to avoid surgical tool-clashing and collision of the tool-shaft with delicate anatomy using elasto-plastic frictional force control. The presented framework is designed to reduce the occurence of direct coupling during electrocautery and to protect high-risk regions in Minimally Invasive Partial Nephrectomy (MIPN). Moreover, we combine aforementioned ACs methods and propose a solution when simultaneous penetration of both constraints occurs. The proposed methodology is implemented on the teleoperated da Vinci Surgical System using the da Vinci Research Kit (dVRK) and its performance is demonstrated through three types of user experiments. The experimental results show that the developed algorithms are of significant benefit in performing the tasks with ACs assistance.

Title: Energy Budget Transaction Protocol for Distributed Robotic Systems
Key Words: energy management systems  protocols  robots  telecommunication power management  energy transaction protocol  distributed robotic system  simulated unreliable communication channel  energy budget transaction protocol  necessary condition  energy generating system  energy-aware actuation  allocated energy budget  system stability  energy monitoring  accidental energy generation  naive communication strategy  Protocols  Robots  Communication channels  Task analysis  Real-time systems  Stability criteria  Network architecture 
Abstract: Passivity is a necessary condition for a system's stability, meaning that an energy generating system may readily become unstable. Energy-aware actuation can enforce passivity by monitoring the amount of energy that is exchanged with a system, while using an allocated energy budget to execute a task. Careful communication of the energy budgets is important to prevent accidental generation of energy. Therefore, this paper proposes an energy transaction protocol to communicate energy budgets in a distributed robotic system to guarantee that passivity is kept. Simulations are performed with a model of the protocol that is applied to a simulated unreliable communication channel. It is verified that the proposed protocol keeps passivity in the system, while a naive communication strategy either violates passivity or is unnecessarily dissipative.

Title: Tele-Echography using a Two-Layer Teleoperation Algorithm with Energy Scaling
Key Words: biomedical ultrasonics  delays  force control  haptic interfaces  manipulators  medical robotics  stability  telerobotics  time-varying systems  sonographer  communication delays  passivity-based bilateral teleoperation architecture  unknown time-varying delay  control laws  slave manipulator  significant forces  WAM Barrett robot  two-layer teleoperation algorithm  energy scaling  stable behavior  touch haptic device  tele-echography system  ultrasound procedures  Delays  Ultrasonic imaging  Damping  Force  Manipulator dynamics 
Abstract: Performing ultrasound procedures from a remote site is a challenging task since both a stable behavior, for the safety of the patient, and a high-level of usability, to exploit the sonographer's expertise, need to be guaranteed. Furthermore, a teleoperation system that provides such requirements has to deal with communication delays as well. To address this issue, we use the two-layer algorithm: a passivity-based bilateral teleoperation architecture able to guarantee stability despite unknown and time-varying delay. Its flexibility allows to implement different kinds of control laws. In a Tele-Echography system, the slave manipulator has to apply significant forces needed by the procedure whereas the haptic device at the master side should be very light to avoid tiring the operator. Therefore, the energy needed by these two robots to perform their movements is very different and the energy injected into the system by the operator is often not sufficient to implement the desired action at the slave side. Methods to overcome this problem require to perfectly know the dynamical models of the robots. The solution proposed in this paper does not require such knowledge and is based on properly scaling the energy exchanged between the master and the slave side. We show the effectiveness of this approach in a real setup using a TOUCH haptic device and a WAM Barrett robot holding an ultrasound probe.

Title: EMG-Controlled Non-Anthropomorphic Hand Teleoperation Using a Continuous Teleoperation Subspace
Key Words: dexterous manipulators  electromyography  human-robot interaction  sensors  signal processing  telerobotics  EMG-controlled nonanthropomorphic hand teleoperation  continuous teleoperation subspace  EMG-driven teleoperation  EMG sensors  EMG signals  pose space  forearm EMG  robot hand  EMG teleoperation methods  nonanthropomorphic multiDOF robot hands  Electromyography  Aerospace electronics  Grippers  Wrist  Muscles  Teleoperators 
Abstract: We present a method for EMG-driven teleoperation of non-anthropomorphic robot hands. EMG sensors are appealing as a wearable, inexpensive, and unobtrusive way to gather information about the teleoperator's hand pose. However, mapping from EMG signals to the pose space of a non-anthropomorphic hand presents multiple challenges. We present a method that first projects from forearm EMG into a subspace relevant to teleoperation. To increase robustness, we use a model which combines continuous and discrete predictors along different dimensions of this subspace. We then project from the teleoperation subspace into the pose space of the robot hand. Our method is effective and intuitive, as it enables novice users to teleoperate pick and place tasks faster and more robustly than state-of-the-art EMG teleoperation methods when applied to a non-anthropomorphic, multi-DOF robot hand.

Title: Enhancing the Force Transparency of Time Domain Passivity Approach: Observer-Based Gradient Controller
Key Words: bang-bang control  control system synthesis  delays  feedback  force control  gradient methods  observers  position control  stability  telerobotics  time-domain analysis  vibrations  time domain passivity approach  communication time delay  force jittering  teleoperation setup  master device  passivity controller  virtual mass-spring system  high frequency force vibrations  conservative passivity-based approaches  stable controller design  observer-based gradient controller  force transparency  TDPA  position-force bilateral teleoperation system  system parameters  delayed feedback force  Force  Delays  Communication channels  High frequency  Vibrations  Time-domain analysis  Teleoperators 
Abstract: Passivity has been the most often used constraint for the stable controller design of bilateral teleoperation systems. Especially, Time Domain Passivity Approach (TDPA) has been used in many applications since it has been known as one of the least conservative passivity-based approaches. Although TDPA were able to stabilize the system with the least conservatism, it has its own drawbacks as the cost of achieving the least conservative passivity especially when there is communication time-delay. Due to the on/off bang-bang control-like modification for instantaneous passivity recovery, it has high frequency force vibrations on the slave and especially master side. By implementing a virtual mass-spring system between the passivity controller and master device, these high frequency vibration has been eliminated. However, the gains need proper tuning as they are dependent on the teleoperation setup and application. It also tends to make the system sluggish which further distorts the transparency. We propose a new observer-based gradient controller to eliminate the force jittering on the master side. It rectifies the delayed feedback force by removing the undesired increase in force which is generated by the delay in communication channel. It does not require any system parameters and there are no gains to tune, thus it can be added to any teleoperator irrespective of its dynamics and without having any prior system information. The proposed approach was implemented to a position-force bilateral teleoperation system, and compared with TDPA with virtual mass spring with round-trip delays of up to 500 ms for hard wall contacts.

Title: Motion Scaling Solutions for Improved Performance in High Delay Surgical Teleoperation
Key Words: delays  medical robotics  surgery  telerobotics  high delay surgical teleoperation  robotic teleoperation  surgeon  telerobotic surgery  surgical workflow  commercial surgical robotic systems  intuitive motion scaling solutions  teleoperated robotic systems  Delays  Task analysis  Surgery  Haptic interfaces  Robot sensing systems 
Abstract: Robotic teleoperation brings great potential for advances within the field of surgery. The ability of a surgeon to reach patient remotely opens exciting opportunities. Early experience with telerobotic surgery has been interesting, but the clinical feasibility remains out of reach, largely due to the deleterious effects of communication delays. Teleoperation tasks are significantly impacted by unavoidable signal latency, which directly results in slower operations, less precision in movements, and increased human errors. Introducing significant changes to the surgical workflow, for example by introducing semi-automation or self-correction, present too significant a technological and ethical burden for commercial surgical robotic systems to adopt. In this paper, we present three simple and intuitive motion scaling solutions to combat teleoperated robotic systems under delay and help improve operator accuracy. Motion scaling offers potentially improved user performance and reduction in errors with minimal change to the underlying teleoperation architecture. To validate the use of motion scaling as a performance enhancer in telesurgery, we conducted a user study with 17 participants, and our results show that the proposed solutions do indeed reduce the error rate when operating under high delay.

Title: Robust object grasping in clutter via singulation
Key Words: function approximation  learning (artificial intelligence)  manipulators  neural nets  object detection  robot vision  robust object grasping  singulation  cluttered environment  collision free grasp affordances  optimal push policies  action-value function approximation  robot training  deep neural network  reinforcement learning  Robots  Task analysis  Image segmentation  Reinforcement learning  Clutter  Neural networks  Collision avoidance 
Abstract: Grasping objects in a cluttered environment is challenging due to the lack of collision free grasp affordances. In such conditions, the target object touches or is covered by other objects in the scene, resulting in a failed grasp. To address this problem, we propose a strategy of singulating the object from its surrounding clutter, which consists of previously unseen objects, by means of lateral pushing movements. We employ reinforcement learning for obtaining optimal push policies given depth observations of the scene. The action-value function(Q-function) is approximated with a deep neural network. We train the robot in simulation and we demonstrate that the transfer of learned policies to the real environment is robust.

Title: Towards an Integrated Autonomous Data-Driven Grasping System with a Mobile Manipulator
Key Words: dexterous manipulators  grippers  image reconstruction  image registration  mobile robots  path planning  pose estimation  robot vision  arbitrary object  scan overlap  grasp analysis  autonomous data-driven grasping system  volumetric next-best-view algorithm  NBV algorithm  force closure  base pose uncertainty  integrated grasping system  mobile manipulator  Uncertainty  Manipulators  Grasping  Robot sensing systems  Planning  Three-dimensional displays 
Abstract: We present an integrated grasping system for a mobile manipulator to grasp an unknown object of interest (OI) in an unknown environment. The system autonomously scans its environment, models the OI, plans and executes a grasp, while taking into account base pose uncertainty. Due to inherent line of sight limitations in sensing, a single scan of the OI often does not reveal enough information to complete grasp analysis; as a result, our system autonomously builds a model of an object via multiple scans from different locations until a grasp can be performed. A volumetric next-best-view (NBV) algorithm is used to model an arbitrary object and terminates modeling when force closure for the gripper is satisfied. Two experiments are presented: i) modeling and registration error is reduced by selecting viewpoints with more scan overlap, and ii) model reconstruction and grasps are successfully achieved while experiencing base pose uncertainty.

Title: Design Principles and Optimization of a Planar Underactuated Hand for Caging Grasps
Key Words: design engineering  dexterous manipulators  elastic constants  grippers  pulleys  springs (mechanical)  planar underactuated hand  underactuated grippers  passive adaptability  finger phalanx length  design parameters  caging grasp performance  mechanical compliance  free-swing motion  joint spring stiffness  pulley radius  Tendons  Pulleys  Measurement  Springs  Grasping  Torque  Mathematical model 
Abstract: In this paper we address the problem of creating planar caging grasps on objects using simple, underactuated grippers with no sensing or control. Specifically, we examine how changes in mechanical compliance, passive adaptability due to underactuation, and finger phalanx length affect the ability to create caging grasps passively, by altering the free-swing motion of the fingers. We present a simple model for simulating the underactuated hand, develop a metric for quantifying a hand design's caging ability, and perform a design parameter space search to reveal the important design factors influencing passive caging behavior. The results show that both palm width and the interplay between joint spring stiffness and pulley radius ratios play the largest roles in determining caging behavior. The effect of varying design parameters on the caging grasp performance of the hand is discussed, the best resulting design is shown, and a list of principles to guide the design of simple underactuated hands for caging grasps is presented.

Title: Mechanical Search: Multi-Step Retrieval of a Target Object Occluded by Clutter
Key Words: image colour analysis  object recognition  robot vision  mechanical search  distractor objects  robots  RGBD perception system  target object multistep retrieval  Search problems  Task analysis  Grasping  Image segmentation  Visualization  Robot sensing systems 
Abstract: When operating in unstructured environments such as warehouses, homes, and retail centers, robots are frequently required to interactively search for and retrieve specific objects from cluttered bins, shelves, or tables. Mechanical Search describes the class of tasks where the goal is to locate and extract a known target object. In this paper, we formalize Mechanical Search and study a version where distractor objects are heaped over the target object in a bin. The robot uses an RGBD perception system and control policies to iteratively select, parameterize, and perform one of 3 actions - push, suction, grasp - until the target object is extracted, or either a time limit is exceeded, or no high confidence push or grasp is available. We present a study of 5 algorithmic policies for mechanical search, with 15,000 simulated trials and 300 physical trials for heaps ranging from 10 to 20 objects. Results suggest that success can be achieved in this long-horizon task with algorithmic policies in over 95% of instances and that the number of actions required scales approximately linearly with the size of the heap. Code and supplementary material can be found at http://ai.stanford.edu/mech-search.

Title: Transferring Grasp Configurations using Active Learning and Local Replanning
Key Words: dexterous manipulators  image segmentation  learning (artificial intelligence)  path planning  robot vision  grasp configurations  active learning  prior example objects  similar shapes  geometric shape characteristics  semantic shape characteristics  grasp space  model parts  corresponding grasps  local replanning  point cloud  robotic hands  Shape  Grasping  Semantics  Three-dimensional displays  Robots  Stability analysis  Particle swarm optimization 
Abstract: We present a new approach to transfer grasp configurations from prior example objects to novel objects. We assume the novel and example objects have the same topology and similar shapes. We perform 3D segmentation on these objects using geometric and semantic shape characteristics. We compute a grasp space for each part of the example object using active learning. We build bijective contact mapping between these model parts and compute the corresponding grasps for novel objects. Finally, we assemble the individual parts and use local replanning to adjust grasp configurations while maintaining its stability and physical constraints. Our approach is general, can handle all kind of objects represented using mesh or point cloud and a variety of robotic hands.

Title: Kinematic Analysis of a 4-DOF Parallel Mechanism with Large Translational and Orientational Workspace
Key Words: Jacobian matrices  manipulator dynamics  manipulator kinematics  kinematic analysis  parallel mechanism  3 translational DOFs  1 rotational DOF  parallel sliders  parallelogram linkages  kinematic equations  Jacobian matrices  geometric description  Actuators  Kinematics  Jacobian matrices  Redundancy  Legged locomotion  Solid modeling  parallel mechanism  translational workspace  orientational workspace  parallelogram 
Abstract: This paper introduces a novel four-degree-of-freedom (4-DOF) parallel mechanism having 3 translational DOFs and 1 rotational DOF. The mechanism comprises 2 sets of parallelogram linkages, which constrain two of the rotational DOFs of the mechanism. An interesting feature of the mechanism is that it can be driven using 4 parallel sliders mounted on its base. As a result, one of the translational DOFs can be infinitely large. Also, the architecture of the mechanism provides a large rotational DOF in one direction. The kinematic equations of the mechanism are derived and the Jacobian matrices are obtained. The mathematical conditions that lead to singularities are also found. Moreover, a geometric description of the boundaries of the workspace is given, which can be expressed using simple equations. Finally, some design examples are proposed and a prototype is presented.

Title: Kinematically Redundant (6+3)-dof Hybrid Parallel Robot with Large orientational Workspace and Remotely Operated Gripper
Key Words: actuators  CAD  grippers  manipulator kinematics  orientational workspace  type II singularities  robot actuators  kinematically redundant (6+3)-dof hybrid parallel robot  remotely operated gripper  3-[R(RR-RRR)SR] kinematically redundant 6+3-degree-of-freedom spatial hybrid parallel robot  revolute actuators  constraint conditions  CAD model  computer animation  Legged locomotion  Kinematics  Redundancy  Silicon  Actuators  Parallel robots 
Abstract: A novel 3-[R(RR-RRR)SR] kinematically redundant 6+3-degree-of-freedom (dof)spatial hybrid parallel robot with revolute actuators is proposed. The kinematic model is developed based on the constraint conditions of the robot. It is shown that the type II (parallel) singularities can be completely avoided, thereby greatly extending the orientational workspace. Mechanisms are then introduced to use the redundant degrees of freedom of the robot to operate a gripper with the robot actuators, which are mounted on or close to the base. A CAD model of the robot is shown and a computer animation is provided to demonstrate the resulting architecture, which has full 6-dof capabilities and a large orientational workspace.

Title: Modeling Variable Curvature Parallel Continuum Robots Using Euler Curves
Key Words: manipulator kinematics  Euler spiral models  Euler spiral method  Euler curves  Cornu spirals  kinematic modeling  variable curvature parallel continuum robots  Clothoids  McKibben actuators  Robots  Spirals  Kinematics  Shape  Muscles  Mathematical model  Computational modeling 
Abstract: In this paper, we propose and investigate a new approach to modeling variable curvature continuum robot sections, based on Euler spirals. Euler spirals, also termed Clothoids, or Cornu spirals, are those curves in which the curvature increases linearly with their arc length. In this work, Euler spirals are applied to the kinematic modeling of continuum robots for the first time. The approach was evaluated using the sections of numerous continuum robots, including two novel parallel continuum robots. Each robot consists of three parallel sections, each with three thin, long McKibben actuators. These sections are poorly modeled by the widely used constant curvature kinematic model. The constant curvature and Euler spiral models were compared and the Euler spiral method was seen to be a significantly better match for a wide range of configurations of the robot hardware.

Title: Variable Damping Control of the Robotic Ankle Joint to Improve Trade-off between Performance and Stability
Key Words: biomechanics  control system synthesis  damping  human-robot interaction  medical robotics  mobile robots  robot dynamics  stability  wearable robots  ankle exoskeleton robot  human ankle damping  human-robot system  robotic controller design  stability  robotic damping conditions  Damping  Stability analysis  Robot kinematics  Task analysis  Exoskeletons  Impedance 
Abstract: This paper presents a variable damping control strategy to improve trade-off between agility/performance and stability in the control of the ankle exoskeleton robot. Depending on the user's intent of movement, the proposed variable damping controller determines the robotic ankle damping from negative to positive damping values. The range of damping values is determined by incorporating the knowledge of human ankle damping in order to always secure stability of the ankle joint of the coupled human-robot system. To evaluate the effectiveness of the proposed controller, we performed a set of human experiments with three different robotic damping conditions: fixed positive damping, fixed negative damping, and variable damping. Comparison of the two fixed damping conditions confirmed that there exists a clear trade-off between ankle agility and stability. Further, analysis of the variable damping condition demonstrated that humans could get benefits of not only positive damping to stabilize the ankle but also negative damping to enhance the agility of ankle movement as necessary during dynamic ankle movement. On average, the variable damping condition improved the agility of ankle movement by 76% and stability by 37% compared to the constant positive damping condition and the constant negative damping condition, respectively. Outcomes of this study would allow us to design a robotic controller that significantly improves agility/performance of the human-robot system without compromising its coupled stability.

Title: An Autonomous Exoskeleton for Ankle Plantarflexion Assistance
Key Words: actuators  biomechanics  brushless DC motors  feedforward  gait analysis  legged locomotion  machine vector control  medical robotics  patient rehabilitation  robot kinematics  torque control  ankle assistance  autonomous platform  torque control bandwidth  field oriented control  feed-forward controller  high efficiency transmission system  untethered exoskeleton  ankle plantarflexion assistance  autonomous exoskeleton platform  robotics community  lower-limb exoskeletons  frequency 17.5 Hz  Exoskeletons  Torque  Brushless DC motors  Voltage measurement  Voltage control 
Abstract: Lower-limb exoskeletons are of great interest in the robotics community because of their various applications in enhancement and rehabilitation. In this paper we present an autonomous exoskeleton platform for ankle plantarflexion assistance. The untethered exoskeleton has a high efficiency transmission system with reduction ratio of 27.4:1. This allows relocating the actuator to the wearer's hip, which reduces device inertia. A feed-forward controller based on field oriented control was implemented to control the brushless DC motor on the exoskeleton. Through various performance tests, the exoskeleton was shown to provide a torque control bandwidth of 17.5Hz and can effectively track biological torque profiles. The augmentation factor (AF) of the exoskeleton is 64.7W, implying potential to reduce walking metabolic cost. This exoskeleton establishes an autonomous platform for experiments involving ankle assistance.

Title: Analytic Collision Risk Calculation for Autonomous Vehicle Navigation
Key Words: collision avoidance  mobile robots  Monte Carlo methods  navigation  probability  road traffic control  road vehicles  autonomous vehicle navigation  Monte Carlo simulations  autonomous systems  self-driving car  Freie Universität Berlin  collision octagon  analytic collision risk calculation  trajectory prediction  ground vehicle navigation  autonomous driving  planning system  Trajectory  Integral equations  Autonomous vehicles  Monte Carlo methods  Uncertainty 
Abstract: Collision checking and avoidance is an import part of the perception and planning system for autonomous driving. We present a new analytic approach to calculate the probability of a future collision and extend another already known solution to be suitable for ground vehicle navigation. Our new concept of the collision octagon facilitates in both cases the derivation of an analytic solution. Both approaches are compared to each other using simulated and real world scenarios. By comparing the results of the analytic solutions to the corresponding Monte Carlo simulations, their accuracy and real-time capability is demonstrated. The suitability of the analytic solutions for real world autonomous systems is further proven by integrating them into the trajectory prediction and planning system of the self-driving car of the Freie Universität Berlin.

Title: A new approach to local navigation for autonomous driving vehicles based on the curvature velocity method
Key Words: collision avoidance  mobile robots  motion control  navigation  road traffic  local navigation  autonomous driving vehicles  curvature velocity method  car navigation system  road path  motion control  high-level planning  lower-level reactive control  beam curvature method  pure pursuit method  lane obstacle avoidance  elderly people  Navigation  Planning  Automobiles  Robot sensing systems  Vehicle dynamics  Computer architecture 
Abstract: This paper presents an approach for a car navigation system to follow a road path consisting on a sequence of lanelets. The motion control is divided into high-level planning that produces the road path and lower-level reactive control that safely follows the path. The approach presented here is the lower-level reactive control that combines the simple pure pursuit method to obtain a reference curvature with the beam curvature method (BCM) that keeps the car in the center of the free space in the lane avoiding obstacles that can partially block the lane. The whole system has been applied to an autonomous vehicle aimed for elderly or disable people.

Title: Goal-Driven Navigation for Non-holonomic Multi-Robot System by Learning Collision
Key Words: collision avoidance  learning (artificial intelligence)  mobile robots  multi-robot systems  goal-driven navigation  nonholonomic multirobot system  learning collision  reinforcement learning  multirobot collision avoidance approach  training agent robots  agent robot  trained policy  multiple obstacle robots  robot simulation  robot experiment  Robots  Collision avoidance  Training  Planning  Task analysis  Servers  Heuristic algorithms 
Abstract: In this paper, we propose the reinforcement learning based multi-robot collision avoidance approach by learning collision. Dynamical path re-planning, which is massively used in classical collision avoidance methods, needs overall information of the environment. Also, training agent robots to avoid the collision and pursue a goal point simultaneously is inefficient since the agent should learn two tasks. As the number of tasks that the agent should learn increases, it is difficult to make the performance of an algorithm consistent, which is known as reproducibility issue. To overcome these limitations, Collision Avoidance by Learning Collision (CALC), which learns collision instead of avoiding an obstacle robot is suggested. To solve the collision avoidance problem efficiently, the proposed method divides the problem into training and planning. In the training algorithm, an agent robot learns how to collide with a single obstacle robot and then generates a trained policy. With the trained policy, the agent can pursue a goal point since the policy leads the agent to `collide' with the goal. Furthermore, by taking action in a reverse way from the trained policy, the agent can avoid multiple obstacle robots in the planning algorithm at once. The proposed method is validated both in the robot simulation and real robot experiment, and compared with the existing collision avoidance method.

Title: Efficient Exact Collision Detection between Ellipsoids and Superquadrics via Closed-form Minkowski Sums
Key Words: collision avoidance  computational geometry  convex programming  mesh generation  mobile robots  ellipsoid  superquadric  closed-form parametric expression  general convex differentiable parametric surface  efficient exact collision detection  closed-form Minkowski sums  computer graphics  robot motion planning  convex polytopes  collision detection scheme  n-dimensional Euclidean space  principal kinematic formula  PKF  Gilbert-Johnson-Keerthi  GJK  algebraic separation conditions  ASC  meshes  Ellipsoids  Collision avoidance  Shape  Two dimensional displays  Three-dimensional displays  Robot sensing systems 
Abstract: Collision detection has attracted attention of researchers for decades in the field of computer graphics, robot motion planning, computer aided design, etc. A large number of successful algorithms have been proposed and applied, which make use of convex polytopes and bounding volumes as primitives. However, algorithms for those shapes rely significantly on the complexity of the meshes. This paper deals with collision detection for shapes with simple and exact mathematical descriptions, such as ellipsoids and superquadrics. These primitives have a wide range of applications in representing complex objects and have much fewer parameters than meshes. The foundation of the proposed collision detection scheme relies on the closed-form Minkowski sums between ellipsoids and superquadrics in n-dimensional Euclidean space. The basic idea here is to shrink the ellipsoid into a point and expand each superquadric into a new offset surface with closed-form parametric expression. The solutions for detecting relative positions between a point and a general convex differentiable parametric surface in both 2D and 3D are derived, leading to an algorithm for exact collision detection. To compare between exact and inexact algorithms, an accuracy metric is introduced based on the Principal Kinematic Formula (PKF). The proposed algorithm is then compared with existing wellknown algorithms: Gilbert-Johnson-Keerthi (GJK) and Algebraic Separation Conditions (ASC). The results show that the proposed algorithm performs competitively with these efficient checkers.

Title: Positioning Uncertainty Reduction of Magnetically Guided Actuation on Planar Surfaces
Key Words: magnetic actuators  microrobots  mobile robots  numerical analysis  position control  magnetically guided actuation  miniature robots  planar surfaces  robot actuation  positioning uncertainty reduction  actuation superposition  lock-up field  numerical analysis  Coils  Robots  Force  Permanent magnets  Wires  Uncertainty  Collision avoidance 
Abstract: Key design and operation parameters of the system for magnetically guided actuation of miniature robots on planar surfaces are analyzed and discussed. The study is carried out on the numerical analysis and also on the experimental measurement on the prototype of the system. Special attention is paid to robot actuation under uncertainty, which can be caused by both external and internal effects. A technique based on a superposition of actuation and lock-up field is proposed.

Title: Robot Localization Based on Aerial Images for Precision Agriculture Tasks in Crop Fields
Key Words: autonomous aerial vehicles  crops  data visualisation  feature extraction  mobile robots  path planning  robot vision  SLAM (robots)  robot localization  aerial images  precision agriculture tasks  crop field environment  visual aliasing  localization system  aerial map  visual ambiguity problem  autonomous robots  Agriculture  Feature extraction  Cameras  Semantics  Visualization  Robot vision systems 
Abstract: Localization is a pre-requisite for most autonomous robots. For example, to carry out precision agriculture tasks effectively, a robot must be able to localize itself accurately in crop fields. The crop field environment presents unique challenges such as the highly repetitive structure of the crops leading to visual aliasing as well as the continuously changing appearance of the field, which makes it difficult to localize over time. In this paper, we present a localization system, which uses an aerial map of the field and exploits the semantic information of the crops, weeds, and their stem positions to resolve the visual ambiguity problem and to enable robot localization over extended periods of time. We evaluate our approach on a real field over multiple sessions spanning several weeks. Experiments suggest that our approach provides the necessary accuracy required by precision agriculture applications and works in cases where current techniques using typical visual features tend to fail.

Title: Visual Appearance Analysis of Forest Scenes for Monocular SLAM
Key Words: autonomous aerial vehicles  mobile robots  path planning  remotely operated vehicles  robot vision  SLAM (robots)  managed forests  tree health  SLAM research  structured human environments  unstructured forests  forest data  photorealistic simulated forest  straightforward forest terrain  forest scenes  natural scenes  visual appearance analysis  cheap energy efficient way  unmanned aerial vehicles  monocular SLAM systems  SLAM systems  visual appearance statistics  Forestry  Simultaneous localization and mapping  Cameras  Visualization  Vegetation  Feature extraction  Lighting 
Abstract: Monocular simultaneous localisation and mapping (SLAM) is a cheap and energy efficient way to enable Unmanned Aerial Vehicles (UAVs) to safely navigate managed forests and gather data crucial for monitoring tree health. SLAM research, however, has mostly been conducted in structured human environments, and as such is poorly adapted to unstructured forests. In this paper, we compare the performance of state of the art monocular SLAM systems on forest data and use visual appearance statistics to characterise the differences between forests and other environments, including a photorealistic simulated forest. We find that SLAM systems struggle with all but the most straightforward forest terrain and identify key attributes (lighting changes and in-scene motion) which distinguish forest scenes from “classic” urban datasets. These differences offer an insight into what makes forests harder to map and open the way for targeted improvements. We also demonstrate that even simulations that look impressive to the human eye can fail to properly reflect the difficult attributes of the environment they simulate, and provide suggestions for more closely mimicking natural scenes.

Title: An Approach for Semantic Segmentation of Tree-like Vegetation
Key Words: convolutional neural nets  forestry  image classification  image colour analysis  image fusion  image segmentation  learning (artificial intelligence)  vegetation  semantic segmentation  tree-like vegetation  pipeline  single RGB-D image  deep network  multiple convolutional neural network architectures  colour data  asynchronous training approach  3-channel HHA image  late fusion architecture  synthetic dataset  broadleaf trees  tree species  Vegetation  Image segmentation  Image color analysis  Semantics  Vegetation mapping  Training  Robots 
Abstract: This paper presents a pipeline for semantic segmentation of trees into their components. Given a single RGB-D image of a tree, we employ a deep network to predict labels to classify each pixel of the tree into trunk, branches, twigs and leaves. Multiple convolutional neural network architectures to combine the complementary modalities of depth and colour data are investigated. An asynchronous training approach where two networks trained separately on RGB and depth encoded as a 3-channel HHA image are combined using a late fusion architecture with different learning rates performs the best. Training and evaluation are performed on a synthetic dataset of 6 species of broadleaf trees. We further demonstrate the network's generalization capabilities, across various tree species on the synthetic dataset, achieving an accuracy of upto 92.5%. Furthermore, we present a qualitative evaluation of our approach on real-world data.

Title: Thermal Image Based Navigation System for Skid-Steering Mobile Robots in Sugarcane Crops*
Key Words: agricultural machinery  agriculture  crops  Global Positioning System  infrared imaging  mobile robots  path planning  robot vision  thermal image  navigation system  skid-steering mobile robots  sugarcane crops  autonomous navigation  sugarcane plantations  ordinary agricultural fields  sugarcane farms  row crop tunnels  low-cost skid-steering mobile robot  bioenergy farm  infrared thermal imaging  laser-based sensors  image analysis  navigation methodology  robot swarm  tankette for intelligent bioenergy agriculture  Agriculture  Robot kinematics  Navigation  Mobile robots  Computed tomography  Image color analysis 
Abstract: This work proposes a new strategy for autonomous navigation of mobile robots in sugarcane plantations based on thermal imaging. Unlike ordinary agricultural fields, sugarcane farms are generally vast and accommodates numerous arrangements of row crop tunnels, which are very tall, dense and hard-to-access. Moreover, sugarcane crops lie in harsh regions, which hinder the logistics for employing staff and heavy machinery for mapping, monitoring, and sampling. One solution for this problem is TIBA (Tankette for Intelligent BioEnergy Agriculture), a low-cost skid-steering mobile robot capable of infiltrating the crop tunnels with several sensing/sampling systems. The project concept is to reduce the product cost for making the deployment of a robot swarm feasible over a larger area. A prototype was built and tested in a bioenergy farm in order to improve the understanding of the environment and bring about the challenges for the next development steps. The major problem is the navigation through the crop tunnels, since most of the developed systems are suitable for open field operations and employ laser scanners and/or GPS/IMU, which in general are expensive technologies. In this context, we propose a low-cost solution based on infrared (IR) thermal imaging. IR cameras are simple and inexpensive devices, which do not pose risks to the user health, unlike laser-based sensors. This idea was highly motivated by the data collected in the field, which have shown a significant temperature difference between the ground and the crop. From the image analysis, it is possible to clearly visualize a distinguishable corridor and, consequently, generate a straight path for the robot to follow by using computationally efficient approaches. A rigorous analysis of the collected thermal data, numerical simulations and preliminary experiments in the real environment were included to illustrate the efficiency and feasibility of the proposed navigation methodology.

Title: Dynamic Obstacles Detection for Robotic Soil Explorations*
Key Words: collision avoidance  feedback  force sensors  mobile robots  complex environment  dynamic obstacles detection  6-axis force torque sensor  plant-inspired robot  soil exploration  complex environments  dynamic environments  robotic soil explorations  Soil  Robot sensing systems  Navigation  Force measurement  Shafts  Force 
Abstract: Nowadays, robots can navigate complex and dynamic environments such as air, water, and different terrain. However, moving into the underground, and especially into the soil, is still a challenge. Soil is a complex environment, and its exploration and monitoring is a crucial aspect in different engineering fields. Although some robotic solutions for mapping the soil are available, none of them can navigate into it. In this work, we propose a new solution for dynamic obstacles detection by embedding a 6-axis force torque sensor into a plant-inspired robot for soil exploration. We measured the forces acting on the apical part of the robot while it penetrates the soil by growing. We tested the system in different configurations, and at different depths. Results show that it is possible to identify the relative position of the obstacle before touching it with the robot. By using the proposed method as control feedback it is possible to move toward the development of novel robotic systems for navigating in complex and dynamic environments, such as the soil.

Title: Non-Destructive Robotic Assessment of Mango Ripeness via Multi-Point Soft Haptics
Key Words: agricultural products  agricultural robots  capacitive sensors  food products  grippers  nondestructive testing  sensor arrays  standards  tactile sensors  waste reduction  nondestructive robotic assessment  mango ripeness  multipoint soft haptics  destructive fruit ripeness estimation  capacitive tactile sensor array  mango stiffness  penetrometer measurements  automatic method  surface areas  fresh product standards  waste reduction  custom-made gripper  simplified spring model  Keitt variety  Grippers  Tactile sensors  Springs  Force  Skin 
Abstract: To match the ever increasing standards of fresh products, and the need to reduce waste, we devise an alternative to the destructive and highly variable fruit ripeness estimation by a penetrometer. We propose a fully automatic method to assess the ripeness of mango which is non-destructive, allows the user to test multiple surface areas with a single touch and is capable of dissociating between ripe and non-ripe fruits. A custom-made gripper equipped with a capacitive tactile sensor array is used to palpate the fruit. The ripeness is estimated as mango stiffness extracted through a simplified spring model. We test the framework on a set of 25 mangoes of the Keitt variety, and compare the results to penetrometer measurements. We show it is possible to correctly classify 88% of the mango without removing the skin of the fruit. The method can be a valuable substitute for non-destructive fruit ripeness testing. To the authors knowledge, this is the first robotics ripeness estimation system based on capacitive tactile sensing technology.

Title: UAV Pose Estimation using Cross-view Geolocalization with Satellite Imagery
Key Words: autonomous aerial vehicles  cameras  distance measurement  feature extraction  Kalman filters  neural nets  pose estimation  unseen images  visual odometry  trajectory estimation errors  UAV pose estimation  image-based cross-view geolocalization method  georeferenced satellite imagery  Siamese neural networks  UAV camera  satellite images  crossview geolocalization  Satellites  Geology  Cameras  Feature extraction  Training  Visual odometry  Google 
Abstract: We propose an image-based cross-view geolocalization method that estimates the global pose of a UAV with the aid of georeferenced satellite imagery. Our method consists of two Siamese neural networks that extract relevant features despite large differences in viewpoints. The input to our method is an aerial UAV image and nearby satellite images, and the output is the weighted global pose estimate of the UAV camera. We also present a framework to integrate our crossview geolocalization output with visual odometry through a Kalman filter. We build a dataset of simulated UAV images and satellite imagery to train and test our networks. We show that our method performs better than previous camera pose estimation methods, and we demonstrate our networks ability to generalize well to test datasets with unseen images. Finally, we show that integrating our method with visual odometry significantly reduces trajectory estimation errors.

Title: The Open Vision Computer: An Integrated Sensing and Compute System for Mobile Robots
Key Words: autonomous aerial vehicles  helicopters  microrobots  mobile robots  path planning  robot vision  Falcon 250 quadrotor platform  vision guided autonomous drone flight  mobile robots  integrated sensing  open vision computer  navigation operations  outdoor exploration  OVC system  computational performance  power consumption  relatively small-scale flying platforms  Field programmable gate arrays  Image sensors  Streaming media  Robot sensing systems  Aircraft navigation  Sensor arrays 
Abstract: In this paper we describe the Open Vision Computer (OVC) which was designed to support high speed, vision guided autonomous drone flight. In particular our aim was to develop a system that would be suitable for relatively small-scale flying platforms where size, weight, power consumption and computational performance were all important considerations. This manuscript describes the primary features of our OVC system and explains how they are used to support fully autonomous indoor and outdoor exploration and navigation operations on our Falcon 250 quadrotor platform.

Title: RaD-VIO: Rangefinder-aided Downward Visual-Inertial Odometry
Key Words: autonomous aerial vehicles  cameras  mobile robots  robot vision  common local planarity assumption  frame-to-frame visual-inertial odometry algorithm  downward facing cameras  RaD-VIO  cost function  rangefinder-aided downward visual-inertial odometry  complementary odometry algorithm  IMU regularisation term  homography based photometric cost  microaerial vehicles  Cameras  Optimization  Visualization  Laser beams  Reliability  Angular velocity 
Abstract: State-of-the-art forward facing monocular visual-inertial odometry algorithms are often brittle in practice, especially whilst dealing with initialisation and motion in directions that render the state unobservable. In such cases having a reliable complementary odometry algorithm enables robust and resilient flight. Using the common local planarity assumption, we present a fast, dense, and direct frame-to-frame visual-inertial odometry algorithm for downward facing cameras that minimises a joint cost function involving a homography based photometric cost and an IMU regularisation term. Via extensive evaluation in a variety of scenarios we demonstrate superior performance than existing state-of-the-art downward facing odometry algorithms for Micro Aerial Vehicles (MAVs).

Title: Learning to Capture a Film-Look Video with a Camera Drone
Key Words: autonomous aerial vehicles  collision avoidance  decision making  image capture  image sensors  image sequences  learning (artificial intelligence)  mobile robots  motion control  object tracking  robot vision  video cameras  video signal processing  film-look video  camera drone  intelligent drones  smarter assistant tools  autonomous aerial filming  camera motion planning  cinematic footages  film-look aerial footage  camera position  automatic filming onboard  data-driven planning approach  image composition  data-driven learning-based approach  professional cameramans intention  decision-making process  Cameras  Drones  Training  Skeleton  Streaming media  Two dimensional displays  Feature extraction 
Abstract: The development of intelligent drones has simplified aerial filming and provided smarter assistant tools for users to capture a film-look footage. Existing methods of autonomous aerial filming either specify predefined camera movements for a drone to capture a footage, or employ heuristic approaches for camera motion planning. However, both predefined movements and heuristically planned motions are hardly able to provide cinematic footages for various dynamic scenarios. In this paper, we propose a data-driven learning-based approach, which can imitate a professional cameraman's intention for capturing a film-look aerial footage of a single subject in real-time. We model the decision-making process of the cameraman with two steps: 1) we train a network to predict the future image composition and camera position, and 2) our system then generates control commands to achieve the desired shot framing. At the system level, we deploy our algorithm on the limited resources of a drone and demonstrate the feasibility of running automatic filming onboard in real-time. Our experiments show how our data-driven planning approach achieves film-look footages and successfully mimics the work of a professional cameraman.

Title: Design and Experiments for MultI-Section-Transformable (MIST)-UAV
Key Words: autonomous aerial vehicles  mobile robots  multiple sequential transformations  shape-shifting transformation  MIST-UAV  in-air transformation  multirotor  multisection-transformable-UAV  transformable vertical take off and landing UAV  transformable VTOL UAV  tail-sitter  fixed-wing operation  Fasteners  Propulsion  Mathematical model  Attitude control  Batteries  Actuators  Servomotors 
Abstract: Presented in this paper are the design and experiments for a transformable Vertical Take Off and Landing (VTOL) UAV. This work demonstrates shape-shifting transformation, building upon the conceptual designs put forth in [1] and [2], along with hardware prototyping and component testing from [3]. A deterministic model is presented to characterize the flight of the MIST-UAV in simulation. Experimental results from the platform demonstrate for the first time successful in-air transformation from multi-rotor, tail-sitter, and fixed-wing operation. Experiments also validated transformation repeatability, successfully testing multiple sequential transformations.

Title: Online Estimation of Geometric and Inertia Parameters for Multirotor Aerial Vehicles
Key Words: autonomous aerial vehicles  mobile robots  multi-robot systems  nonlinear control systems  observers  robust control  multirotor aerial vehicles  moment of inertia  center of mass  nonlinear observability analysis  load transportation  motor speed  aerial vehicles  robust control  precise control  inertia parameters  Rotors  Vehicle dynamics  Estimation  Quaternions  Real-time systems  Task analysis  Transportation 
Abstract: Accurate knowledge of geometric and inertia parameters are a necessity for precise and robust control of aerial vehicles. We propose a novel filter that is able to fuse motor speed, inertia, and pose measurements to estimate the vehicle's key dynamic properties online. The presented framework is able to estimate the multirotor's moment of inertia, mass, center of mass and each sensor module's relative position. Obtaining these estimates in-flight allow the multirotor to be precisely controlled even during tasks such as load transportation or after configuration changes on scene. We provide a nonlinear observability analysis, proving that the presented model is locally weakly observable. Experimental results validate the proposed approach, showing the ability to estimate the dynamic properties accurately and demonstrate its capability to do so even while additional loads are added. The framework is flexible and can easily be adapted to a wide range of applications, including self-calibration, object grasping, and single robot or multi-robot payload transportation.

Title: External Wrench Estimation for Multilink Aerial Robot by Center of Mass Estimator Based on Distributed IMU System
Key Words: aerospace robotics  collision avoidance  manipulators  mobile robots  motion control  position control  robot dynamics  sensors  external wrench estimation  mass estimator  distributed IMU system  aerial exploration  external force  torque  aerial manipulation tasks  aerial multilink robot  onboard inertial measurement unit sensors  two-dimensional multilink aerial robot  external wrench estimator  contact point  motion primitives library  robot dynamic models  acceleration data  Acceleration  Estimation  Robot sensing systems  Collision avoidance  Task analysis 
Abstract: External wrench estimation is very helpful for aerial exploration and manipulation tasks. During the exploration, there might be unseen obstacles to cause dangerous collisions. The estimation of the external force and torque is also beneficial in aerial manipulation tasks. In this paper, we present a framework of estimating the external wrench for the aerial multilink robot based on the onboard inertial measurement unit (IMU) sensors, joints state and robot dynamic models. Compared to the conventional multirotor robot, the center of mass (CoM) is always changing when the robot transforms. The sensor could not be attached to CoM to observe the acceleration data. Consequently, we present a novel method by applying a distributed IMU system to estimate the CoM linear and angular accelerations for the external wrench estimation. With the help of the robot model, the position of the contact point could be estimated, which is useful in exploring tasks to safely interact with the physical world. We design the contact-aided navigation strategy and computationally efficient motion primitives library to help our robot react to the unexpected collision. We experimentally validate our framework with a two-dimensional multilink aerial robot to show the results of external wrench estimator and its further applications2.2Experiment video: https://youtu.be/R-WDReLnWWI

Title: A Novel Development of Robots with Cooperative Strategy for Long-term and Close-proximity Autonomous Transmission-line Inspection
Key Words: automatic optical inspection  autonomous aerial vehicles  collision avoidance  inspection  laser ranging  mobile robots  power overhead lines  robot vision  sensors  service robots  close-proximity autonomous transmission-line inspection  power transmission lines inspection  overhead ground wire  OGW  sensor data collection  unmanned aerial vehicle  grabbing mechanism  mechanical structures  autonomous navigation  2D Laser Range Finder  LRF  CBR platforms  artificially constructed PTLs environment outdoors  high inspection accuracy  close-proximity inspection  long-term inspection  Inspection  Three-dimensional displays  Unmanned aerial vehicles  Microswitches  Delay effects  Robot sensing systems 
Abstract: We develop two cooperative robots for power transmission lines (PTLs) inspection - a light climbing robot (CBR) which can stably move on the overhead ground wire (OGW) for sensor data collection and an unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV) with a grabbing mechanism, which can automatically put the CBR on the OGW and take it off. In order to guarantee the safety, the mechanical structures of the connectors are designed in the shape of a trumpet. Further, a self-locked structure of the CBR is developed to automatically seize and release the OGW. For autonomous navigation, the UAV is equipped with a movable sliding rail and a 2D Laser Range Finder (LRF). The LRF can not only detect the position and orientation of the OGW but also detect the top beam of the CBR and the grabbing position in it. Furthermore, the action of the grabbing mechanism is automatically triggered by a microswitch. Finally, by the developed UAV and CBR platforms, we test the whole loading and unloading strategy in an artificially constructed PTLs environment outdoors and achieve an encouraging result1. Combining the flexible motion of the UAV and the high inspection accuracy of the CBR, the CBR can negotiate any obstacle by flying and abandon the traditional heavy obstacle crossing mechanism to effectively realize close-proximity inspection. Due to the light weight and low power consumption, the CBRs can be deployed once in many power corridors to conduct a long-term inspection.

Title: Hunting Drones with Other Drones: Tracking a Moving Radio Target
Key Words: aerospace communication  aerospace robotics  mobile radio  mobile robots  path planning  remotely operated vehicles  target tracking  telemetry  moving radio target  unauthorized drone flights  antennas  commodity radios  telemetry radio emissions  passenger safety  bystander safety  Drones  Antenna measurements  Telemetry  Target tracking  Antennas  Aircraft  Radio frequency 
Abstract: Unauthorized drone flights near aircraft, airports, and emergency operations compromise the safety of passengers and bystanders. A detection system that can quickly find and track drones could help mitigate the risk of unauthorized drone flights. In this work, we show how a consumer drone outfitted with antennas and commodity radios can autonomously localize another drone by its telemetry radio emissions. We show how a non-myopic planner improves tracking performance over traditionally used greedy, one-step planners. Improved tracking is validated with simulations and the system is demonstrated with real drones in flight tests.

Title: Design and Testing of a New Cell Microinjector with Embedded Soft Force Sensor
Key Words: cellular biophysics  force sensors  medical control systems  embedded soft force sensor  manual cell microinjection  position-based robotic cell microinjection  force-assisted robotic cell microinjection  survival rate  piezoresistive force sensor  soft materials  soft sensors  force measurement  force-sensing cell injector  Force sensors  Piezoresistance  Force  Force measurement  Microinjection  Prototypes 
Abstract: Cell microinjection plays an important role in genetics, transgenics, and other biomedical fields. As compared with manual cell microinjection and position-based robotic cell microinjection, force-assisted robotic cell microinjection can improve the success rate and survival rate of the injected cells. In this paper, a novel force-sensing cell injector is designed with piezoresistive force sensor embedded in soft materials. The soft sensors act as fixed-guided beams, which are introduced to achieve the force measurement with high sensitivity in pure one-degree-of-freedom (1-DOF) direction. The injector is developed by considering the installation and replacement issues of the micropipette as well as the connection convenience between the micropipette and tube of compressed air. A prototype of the cell injector with the force sensor is fabricated. Experimental study is conducted to verify its performance in practice.

Title: Energy optimization for a Robust and Flexible Interaction Control
Key Words: humanoid robots  human-robot interaction  optimisation  stability  tanks (containers)  admittance controllers  energy optimization problem  interactive behavior  stable interaction  robot interaction  admittance control strategy  Admittance  Optimization  Dynamics  Manipulators  Collaboration  Buildings 
Abstract: The possibility of adapting online the way a robot interacts with the environment is becoming more and more important. In this paper we introduce the tank based admittance controller. We show that all the admittance controllers can be modeled as an energy optimization problem and then we introduce a novel admittance control strategy that allows to change online the interactive behavior while preserving a stable interaction with the environment. The effectiveness of the proposed architecture is experimentally validated.

Title: Design of Versatile and Low-Cost Shaft Sensor for Health Monitoring
Key Words: bending  condition monitoring  power transmission (mechanical)  prototypes  shafts  strain sensors  torque measurement  velocity measurement  vibration measurement  design engineering  transportation  torque measurement  speed measurement  vibration measurement  bending measurement  strain sensor  prototype  mechanical power transmission  rotating shafts  robotic system  industrial equipment  power generation system  health monitoring  low-cost shaft sensor  Shafts  Torque  Strain  Bridges  Strain measurement  Robot sensing systems  Torque measurement 
Abstract: Virtually every mechanized form of transportation, power generation system, industrial equipment, and robotic system has rotating shafts. As the shaft is often the main means of mechanical power transmission, measuring the torque, speed, vibration, and bending of the shaft can be used in many cases to access device performance and health and to implement controls. This paper proposes a shaft sensor that measures all of these phenomena with reasonable accuracy while having a low cost and simple installation process. This sensor transfers strain from the shaft and amplifies it to increase sensitivity. Furthermore, this sensor requires no components to be in the stationary reference frame, allowing the entire device to rotate with the shaft. A prototype is presented. Experimental results illustrate the effectiveness of the proposed system.

Title: Robust Execution of Contact-Rich Motion Plans by Hybrid Force-Velocity Control
Key Words: control system synthesis  force control  industrial manipulators  mobile robots  optimisation  path planning  trajectory control  velocity control  robust execution  contact-rich motion plans  trajectory hybrid servoing  hybrid force-velocity control actions  control synthesis  positional errors  optimization problems  contact-rich manipulation tasks  Robots  Force  Force control  Aerospace electronics  Collision avoidance  Planning  Velocity control 
Abstract: In hybrid force-velocity control, the robot can use velocity control in some directions to follow a trajectory, while performing force control in other directions to maintain contacts with the environment regardless of positional errors. We call this way of executing a trajectory hybrid servoing. We propose an algorithm to compute hybrid force-velocity control actions for hybrid servoing. We quantity the robustness of a control action and make trade-offs between different requirements by formulating the control synthesis as optimization problems. Our method can efficiently compute the dimensions, directions and magnitudes of force and velocity controls. We demonstrated by experiments the effectiveness of our method in several contact-rich manipulation tasks. Link to the video: https://youtu.be/KtSNmvwOenM.

Title: Endoscope Force Generation and Intrinsic Sensing with Environmental Scaffolding
Key Words: actuators  cantilevers  endoscopes  force control  manipulator dynamics  medical robotics  skin  surgery  cantilevered configuration  environmental scaffolding  contact forces  tip force estimation  actuation forces  skin wounds  laparoscopic techniques  endoscopic surgery  intrinsic sensing  endoscope force generation  Endoscopes  Tendons  Force  Shape  Robot sensing systems  Endoscopes  Finite element analysis  Intrinsic force measurement  Minimally invasive surgery 
Abstract: Endoscopic surgery is an increasingly popular alternative to laparoscopic techniques for many conditions, as the operation site can be reached without skin wounds. In many tasks, sufficient force generation is desired. As endoscopes must be highly flexible and slim, however, the force generation and sensing capabilities associated with these tools is limited due their compliance, significantly hindering the adoption rate of endoscopic surgeries. This paper proposes a technique, termed `environmental scaffolding', to stabilize an actuated, flexible segment in the intestine such that larger forces can be applied. Through the measurement of actuation forces, a method for intrinsically sensing multiple contact forces when in this configuration is presented. Experimental results show that with the environmental scaffolding technique, the tip force generated can be increased by over 50% on average compared to using the device in a purely cantilevered configuration, and the tip force estimation is accurate to within 2.97%.

Title: On The Combination of Gamification and Crowd Computation in Industrial Automation and Robotics Applications
Key Words: cognition  computer games  human computer interaction  mobile robots  cognitive versatility  industrial automation  robotics applications  human-machine collaboration  gamification  video games  human workers  autonomous intelligent systems  crowd computation  Crowdsourcing  Games  Task analysis  Service robots  Automation  Collaboration 
Abstract: Autonomous intelligent systems outperform human workers in an expanding range of domains, typically those in which success is a function of speed, precision and repeatability. However, many cognitive tasks remain beyond the reach of automation. In this work, we propose the use of video games to crowdsource the cognitive versatility and creativity of human players to solve complex problems in industrial automation and robotics applications. To do so, we introduce a theoretical framework in which robotics problems are embedded into video game environments and gameplay from crowds of players is aggregated to inform robot actions. Such a framework could enable a future of synergistic human-machine collaboration for industrial automation, in which members of the public not only freely offer the fruits of their intelligent reasoning for productive use, but have fun whilst doing so. There is also potential for significant negative consequences surrounding safety, accountability and ethics if great care is not taken in the implementation. Further work is needed to explore these wider implications, as well as to develop the technical theory behind the framework and build prototype applications.

Title: A New Overloading Fatigue Model for Ergonomic Risk Assessment with Application to Human-Robot Collaboration
Key Words: biomechanics  electromyography  ergonomics  fatigue  human-robot interaction  injuries  medical disorders  medical robotics  occupational health  occupational safety  patient monitoring  risk analysis  work-related musculoskeletal disorders  electromyography analysis  overloading fatigue model  risk factors  excessive fatigue accumulation  HRC framework  painting task  fatigue ratio parameter  joint torque variations  robot assistance  body posture optimisation procedure  human-robot collaboration framework  light payloads  overloading torque  cumulative effect  whole-body fatigue model  human joints  severe injuries  local muscle fatigue  light-weight tools  monotonous movements  WMSD  ergonomic risk assessment  Fatigue  Torque  Task analysis  Muscles  Load modeling  Tools  Robots 
Abstract: Among the numerous risk factors associated to work-related musculoskeletal disorders (WMSD), repetitive and monotonous movements with light-weight tools are one of the most frequently cited. Such tasks may indeed result in the excessive accumulation of local muscle fatigue, causing severe injuries in human joints. Accordingly, this paper proposes a new whole-body fatigue model to evaluate the cumulative effect of the overloading torque induced on the joints over time by light payloads. The proposed model is then integrated into a human-robot collaboration (HRC) framework to set the timing of a body posture optimisation procedure guided by the robot assistance, by the time fatigue overcomes a threshold in any joint. Our overloading fatigue model is based on an estimation method we developed in a previous work, to monitor joint torque variations due to external forces in real-time. To account for individuals' different perception of fatigue, the fatigue ratio parameter in the model is computed experimentally for each subject. The proposed model is first studied on ten subjects by means of an electromyography analysis. Next, its performance is assessed in a painting task and finally evaluated within the HRC framework, which is proved to be able to reduce the risk of injuries caused by excessive fatigue accumulation.

Title: Human-inspired balance model to account for foot-beam interaction mechanics
Key Words: legged locomotion  nonlinear control systems  pendulums  stability  human-inspired balance model  foot-beam interaction mechanics  bipedal robots  mediolateral balance  foot-beam interaction dynamics  human balancing behavior  human controller  whole-body behavior  balance controllers  foot contact conditions  foot-ground interaction dynamics  double inverted pendulum model  Foot  Torque  Robot kinematics  Mathematical model  Task analysis  Legged locomotion 
Abstract: The locomotion and balance capabilities of bipedal robots have greatly improved in recent years. However, maintaining balance on difficult terrain still poses a significant challenge. In this paper, we examined how humans maintain mediolateral balance when standing on a narrow beam with bare feet and wearing rigid soles. Our results show that foot-beam interaction dynamics critically influence balancing behavior. Importantly, this suggests that differences in human balancing behavior across different support surfaces may not solely result from changes in their neural control strategy. They may also result from changes in foot-ground interaction. Thus, the altered foot-ground interaction dynamics must be considered to accurately capture changes in the human controller across different support surfaces. A simplified model of foot-beam interaction was added to a double inverted pendulum model for human balancing. This extended model could replicate the change in human behavior across different foot contact conditions (bare feet vs. rigid feet). A better understanding of how humans coordinate whole-body behavior across a range of conditions may inform the development of balance controllers for bipedal robots.

Title: Real-time Robot-assisted Ergonomics*
Key Words: ergonomics  human-robot interaction  image colour analysis  pose estimation  real-time systems  human-robot relative position  human ergonomics  human-robot interaction  cooperative robot movements  real-time robot-assisted ergonomics  human user posture  RGB-D camera  Ergonomics  Service robots  Robot sensing systems  Wrist  Real-time systems 
Abstract: This paper describes a novel approach in human-robot interaction driven by ergonomics. With a clear focus on optimising ergonomics, the approach proposed here continuously observes a human user's posture and by invoking appropriate cooperative robot movements, the user's posture is, whenever required, brought back to an ergonomic optimum. Effectively, the new protocol optimises the human-robot relative position and orientation as a function of human ergonomics. An RGB-D camera is used to calculate and monitor human joint angles in real-time and to determine the current ergonomics state. A total of 6 main causes of low ergonomic states are identified, leading to 6 universal robot responses to allow the human to return to an optimal ergonomics state. The algorithmic framework identifies these 6 causes and controls the cooperating robot to always adapt the environment (e.g. change the pose of the workpiece) in a way that is ergonomically most comfortable for the interacting user. Hence, human-robot interaction is continuously re-evaluated optimizing ergonomics states. The approach is validated through an experimental study, based on established ergonomic methods and their adaptation for real-time application. The study confirms improved ergonomics using the new approach.

Title: A Fog Robotic System for Dynamic Visual Servoing
Key Words: cloud computing  control engineering computing  Internet  mobile robots  motion control  multi-robot systems  object recognition  position control  robot vision  service robots  telerobotics  visual servoing  dynamic visual  cloud robotics  multiple robots  cloud services  unlimited computation power  network communication  dynamic compliant service robots  human compliant service robots  dynamic self-balancing robot  cloud teleoperation  cloud-based image based visual servoing module  cloud teleoperator  real-time automation system  cloud-edge hybrid design  dynamic robotic control  deep-learning recognition systems  self-balancing service robot  fog robotic object recognition system  Cloud computing  Service robots  Robot sensing systems  Legged locomotion  Visualization 
Abstract: Cloud Robotics is a paradigm where multiple robots are connected to cloud services via Internet to access “unlimited” computation power, at the cost of network communication. However, due to limitations such as network latency and variability, it is difficult to control dynamic, human compliant service robots directly from the cloud. In this work, we combine cloud robotics with an agile edge device to build a Fog Robotic system by leveraging an asynchronous protocol with a “heartbeat” signal. We use the system to enable robust teleoperation of a dynamic self-balancing robot from the cloud. We use the system to pick up boxes from static locations, a task commonly performed in warehouse logistics. To make cloud teleoperation more intuitive and efficient, we program a cloud-based image based visual servoing (IBVS) module to automatically assist the cloud teleoperator during the object pickups. Visual feedbacks, including apriltag recognition and tracking, are performed in the cloud to emulate a Fog Robotic object recognition system for IBVS. We demonstrate the feasibility of a dynamic real-time automation system using this cloud-edge hybrid design, which opens up possibilities of deploying dynamic robotic control with deep-learning recognition systems in Fog Robotics. Finally, we show that Fog Robotics enables the self-balancing service robot to pick up a box automatically from a person under unstructured environments.

Title: Approximate Probabilistic Security for Networked Multi-Robot Systems
Key Words: binary decision diagrams  computational complexity  control system security  graph theory  multi-robot systems  networked control systems  optimisation  probability  MRS  approximate probabilistic security  networked multirobot systems  combinatorial optimization problem  lower bound estimate  computational complexity  binary decision diagrams  exact probability  optimal subset  multipoint optimization  left invertiblility  disjoint path sets  online optimization  Security  Observers  Robot sensing systems  Probabilistic logic  Boolean functions  Probability 
Abstract: In this paper, we formulate a combinatorial optimization problem that aims to maximize the accuracy of a lower bound estimate of the probability of security of a multi-robot system (MRS), while minimizing the computational complexity involved in its calculation. Security of an MRS is defined using the well-known control theoretic notion of left invertiblility, and the probability of security of an MRS can be calculated using binary decision diagrams (BDDs). The complexity of a BDD depends on the number of disjoint path sets considered during its construction. Taking into account all possible disjoint paths results in an exact probability of security, however, selecting an optimal subset of disjoint paths leads to a good estimate of the probability while significantly reducing computation. To deal with the dynamic nature of MRSs, we introduce two methods: (1) multi-point optimization, a technique that requires some a priori knowledge of the topology of the MRS over time, and (2) online optimization, a technique that does not require a priori knowledge, but must construct BDDs while the MRS is operating. Finally, our approach is validated on an MRS performing a rendezvous objective while exchanging information according to a noisy state agreement process.

Title: A Decentralized Heterogeneous Control Strategy for a Class of Infinitesimally Shape-Similar Formations
Key Words: decentralised control  geometry  mobile robots  multi-robot systems  position control  decentralized formation control strategy  assembled triangulation  infinitesimally shape-similar formations  asymptotic controllers  differential-drive robots  decentralized heterogeneous control strategy  sensing modalities  multirobot team  infinitesimal shape-similarity  Robot sensing systems  Shape  Robot kinematics  Self-assembly  Maintenance engineering  Multi-Robot Systems 
Abstract: The sensing modalities available to individual agents in a multi-robot team have a significant effect on what the team can accomplish. Previous work on infinitesimal shape-similarity has shown that maintaining relative angles between robots equipped with bearing-only sensors can render a formation of these robots invariant to translation, rotation, and uniform scaling; however, previous work has not proposed decentralized control strategies for exploiting this invariance. To address this deficiency, this paper proposes a decentralized formation control strategy for assembled triangulations, a class of infinitesimally shape-similar formations. Heterogeneous in terms of sensing and control, a decentralized formation control strategy is developed in which one robot sets the position of the formation, a robot capable of measuring bearings and distances controls the scale and heading, and the remaining robots maintain the assembled triangulation. The asymptotic controllers that compose the formation control strategy of this work are implemented on a team of differential-drive robots.

Title: Asynchronous Network Formation in Unknown Unbounded Environments*
Key Words: mobile robots  multi-robot systems  path planning  trees (mathematics)  mobile multirobot system  arbitrary robot deployments  robot initial positions  robot configuration  online network formation problem  asynchronous network formation  unknown unbounded environments  ONFP  bounded communication range  competitive ratio  Euclidean minimum spanning tree  Robot kinematics  Task analysis  Partitioning algorithms  Vegetation  Protocols  Peer-to-peer computing 
Abstract: In this paper, we study the Online Network Formation Problem (ONFP) for a mobile multi-robot system. Consider a group of robots with a bounded communication range operating in a large open area. One of the robots has a piece of information which has to be propagated to all other robots. What strategy should the robots pursue to disseminate the information to the rest of the robots as quickly as possible? The initial locations of the robots are unknown to each other, therefore the problem must be solved in an online fashion. For this problem, we present an algorithm whose competitive ratio is O(H · max{M, √MH}) for arbitrary robot deployments, where M is the largest edge length in the Euclidean minimum spanning tree on the initial robot configuration and H is the height of the tree. We also study the case when the robot initial positions are chosen uniformly at random and improve the ratio to O(M). Finally, we present simulation results to validate the performance in larger scales and demonstrate our algorithm using three robots in a field experiment.

Title: Switching Topology for Resilient Consensus using Wi-Fi Signals
Key Words: graph theory  multi-robot systems  probability  telecommunication network topology  telecommunication security  telecommunication switching  wireless channels  wireless LAN  resilient consensus  physical networks  multiagent consensus  Sybil attack  physical properties  wireless transmissions  wireless channels  switching signal  untrustworthy agents  arbitrary malicious node values  initial topology  connected topology  legitimate agents  Wi-Fi signals  societal integration  multirobot team security  untrustworthy transmissions  switching topology  true graph  Wireless communication  Switches  Communication system security  Wireless sensor networks  Network topology  Security  Topology 
Abstract: Securing multi-robot teams against malicious activity is crucial as these systems accelerate towards widespread societal integration. This emerging class of “physical networks” requires research into new methods of security that exploit their physical nature. This paper derives a theoretical framework for securing multi-agent consensus against the Sybil attack by using the physical properties of wireless transmissions. Our frame-work uses information extracted from the wireless channels to design a switching signal that stochastically excludes potentially untrustworthy transmissions from the consensus. Intuitively, this amounts to selectively ignoring incoming communications from untrustworthy agents, allowing for consensus to the true average to be recovered with high probability if initiated after a certain observation time T0 that we derive. This work is different from previous work in that it allows for arbitrary malicious node values and is insensitive to the initial topology of the network so long as a connected topology over legitimate nodes in the network is feasible. We show that our algorithm will recover consensus and the true graph over the system of legitimate agents with an error rate that vanishes exponentially with time.

Title: Multi-Vehicle Trajectory optimisation On Road Networks
Key Words: integer programming  linear programming  path planning  multivehicle trajectory optimisation  road networks  planning time-optimal trajectories  multiple cooperative agents  static road network  vehicle interactions  nontrivial decisions  complex flow-on effects  globally optimal time trajectory  minimum time trajectory  MILP  computational performance  binary variables  collision constraints  open-pit mining scenario  mixed integer linear programming  goal constraints  heuristic method  Roads  Trajectory  Planning  Automation  Optimization  Iterative methods  Mixed integer linear programming 
Abstract: This paper addresses the problem of planning time-optimal trajectories for multiple cooperative agents along specified paths through a static road network. Vehicle interactions at intersections create non-trivial decisions, with complex flow-on effects for subsequent interactions. A globally optimal, minimum time trajectory is found for all vehicles using Mixed Integer Linear Programming (MILP). Computational performance is improved by minimising binary variables using iteratively applied targeted collision constraints, and efficient goal constraints. Simulation results in an open-pit mining scenario compare the proposed method against a fast heuristic method and a reactive approach based on site practices. The heuristic is found to scale better with problem size while the MILP is able to avoid local minima.

Title: Disturbance Compensation Based Control for an Indoor Blimp Robot
Key Words: autonomous aerial vehicles  compensation  control system synthesis  feedback  mobile robots  nonlinear control systems  observers  robust control  uncertain systems  blimp disturbance compensation based controller  indoor blimp robot  robust controller  horizontal plane  slider-like nonlinear system  uncertain bounded disturbances  output feedback controller  disturbance evaluation  exogenous disturbances  control scheme  concrete blimp  homogeneous differentiator  observer  Mathematical model  Atmospheric modeling  Biological system modeling  Output feedback  Robot sensing systems  Robot kinematics 
Abstract: This paper presents design of a robust controller with disturbance compensation for an indoor blimp robot and its realization. The movement of blimp in horizontal plane is modeled as a slider-like nonlinear system complemented with uncertain bounded disturbances. To design the output feedback controller, a homogeneous differentiator is used as an observer. Then the method for disturbance evaluation is designed, the perturbation estimate is next used in the controller for cancellation of the influence of exogenous disturbances. Control scheme is implemented on a concrete blimp, finally, the performance of blimp disturbance compensation based controller is verified in experiments.

Title: Informed Information Theoretic Model Predictive Control
Key Words: nonlinear control systems  nonlinear dynamical systems  optimal control  optimisation  predictive control  robust control  sampling methods  informed sampling distribution  optimized controls  informed information theoretic model predictive control  nonlinear control systems  uncertainties  highly nonlinear dynamics  contextual information  generative models  trajectory control  sampling-based MPC methods  robustness properties  conditional variational autoencoders  autonomous navigation domain  Task analysis  Optimal control  Trajectory  Decoding  Robots  Planning  Cost function 
Abstract: The problem of minimizing cost in nonlinear control systems with uncertainties or disturbances remains a major challenge. Model predictive control (MPC), and in particular sampling-based MPC has recently shown great success in complex domains such as aggressive driving with highly nonlinear dynamics. Sampling-based methods rely on a prior distribution to generate samples in the first place. Obviously, the choice of this distribution highly influences efficiency of the controller. Existing approaches such as sampling around the control trajectory of the previous time step perform suboptimally, especially in multi-modal or highly dynamic settings. In this work, we therefore propose to learn models that generate samples in low-cost areas of the state-space, conditioned on the environment and on contextual information of the task to solve. By using generative models as an informed sampling distribution, our approach exploits guidance from the learned models and at the same time maintains robustness properties of the MPC methods. We use Conditional Variational Autoencoders (CVAE) to learn distributions that imitate samples from a training dataset containing optimized controls. An extensive evaluation in the autonomous navigation domain suggests that replacing previous sampling schemes with our learned models considerably improves performance in terms of path quality and planning efficiency.

Title: A Generic Optimization Based Cartesian Controller for Robotic Mobile Manipulation
Key Words: angular velocity control  closed loop systems  end effectors  mobile robots  motion control  optimisation  probability  robot vision  service robots  sequential phases  closed loop perspective  generic optimization-based Cartesian controller  motion commands  robotic system  mobile platform  velocity space  end effector velocity  joint platform velocities  base platform velocities  mobile service robot architecture  domestic tasks  robotic mobile manipulation  random arm configurations  Optimization  Kinematics  Manipulators  Robot sensing systems  Real-time systems  Planning 
Abstract: Typically, the problem of robotic manipulation is divided among two sequential phases: a planning one and an execution one. However, since the second one is executed in open loop, the robot is unable to react in real time to changes in the task (e.g. moving object). This paper addresses the mobile manipulation problem from a real-time, closed loop perspective. In particular, we propose a generic optimization-based Cartesian controller, that given a continuous monitoring of the goal, determines the best motion commands. We target our controller to a robotic system comprising an arm and a mobile platform. However, the approach can in principle be extended to more complex mechanisms. The approach is based on shifting the problem to velocity space, where end effector velocity is a linear function of joint and base platform velocities. Our approach was quantitatively evaluated both on simulation and on a real service robot. It was also integrated into a mobile service robot architecture targeting domestic tasks and evaluated on the RoboCup@Home scientific competition. Our results show that the controller is able to reach random arm configurations with a high probability of success.

Title: Task-Driven Estimation and Control via Information Bottlenecks
Key Words: information theory  iterative methods  robots  state estimation  general algorithmic framework  task-driven estimation  state representations  state estimation  task-driven representation  task-relevant variables  performant control policy  robotic system control  principled algorithmic framework  iterative algorithms  information bottleneck optimization problem  Task analysis  Robot sensing systems  Robustness  Optimized production technology  Estimation 
Abstract: Our goal is to develop a principled and general algorithmic framework for task-driven estimation and control for robotic systems. State-of-the-art approaches for controlling robotic systems typically rely heavily on accurately estimating the full state of the robot (e.g., a running robot might estimate joint angles and velocities, torso state, and position relative to a goal). However, full state representations are often excessively rich for the specific task at hand and can lead to significant computational inefficiency and brittleness to errors in state estimation. In contrast, we present an approach that eschews such rich representations and seeks to create task-driven representations. The key technical insight is to leverage the theory of information bottlenecks to formalize the notion of a “task-driven representation” in terms of information theoretic quantities that measure the minimality of a representation. We propose novel iterative algorithms for automatically synthesizing (offline) a task-driven representation (given in terms of a set of task-relevant variables (TRVs)) and a performant control policy that is a function of the TRVs. We present online algorithms for estimating the TRVs in order to apply the control policy. We demonstrate that our approach results in significant robustness to unmodeled measurement uncertainty both theoretically and via thorough simulation experiments including a spring-loaded inverted pendulum running to a goal location.

Title: Feasibility Analysis For Constrained Model Predictive Control Based Motion Cueing Algorithm
Key Words: closed loop systems  motion control  optimal control  predictive control  road traffic control  stability  feasibility issues  implicit model predictive control-based motion cueing algorithms  prediction horizons  control inputs  feasibility analysis  constrained model predictive control based motion cueing algorithm  motion control  constrained optimal control  high performance driving simulator  Acceleration  Force  Stability criteria  Cost function  Heuristic algorithms 
Abstract: This paper deals with motion control for an 8-degree-of-freedom (DOF) high performance driving simulator. We formulate a constrained optimal control that defines the dynamical behavior of the system. Furthermore, the paper brings together various methodologies for addressing feasibility issues arising in implicit model predictive control-based motion cueing algorithms. The implementation of different techniques is described and discussed subsequently. Several simulations are carried out in the simulator platform. It is observed that the only technique that can provide ensured closed-loop stability by assuring feasibility over all prediction horizons is a braking law that basically saturates the control inputs in the constrained form.

Title: Robustness to Out-of-Distribution Inputs via Task-Aware Generative Uncertainty
Key Words: Bayes methods  belief networks  control engineering computing  learning (artificial intelligence)  mobile robots  neurocontrollers  robust control  uncertainty-aware robotic perception  explicit generative model  observation distribution  action-conditioned collision prediction task  Bayesian neural network techniques  task-aware generative uncertainty  deep learning  open world  real-world robotic systems  mobile robots  out-of-distribution observations  neural network predictions  robotic perception  approximate Bayesian approach  Uncertainty  Robots  Predictive models  Bayes methods  Neural networks  Training  Collision avoidance 
Abstract: Deep learning provides a powerful tool for robotic perception in the open world. However, real-world robotic systems, especially mobile robots, must be able to react intelligently and safely even in unexpected circumstances. This requires a system that knows what it knows, and can estimate its own uncertainty for unfamiliar, out-of-distribution observations. Approximate Bayesian approaches are commonly used to estimate uncertainty for neural network predictions, but struggle with out-of-distribution observations. Generative models can in principle detect out-of-distribution observations as those with a low estimated density, but overly pessimistic as an uncertainty measure, since the mere presence of an out-of-distribution input does not by itself indicate an unsafe situation. Intuitively, we would like a perception system that can detect when task-salient parts of the image are unfamiliar or uncertain, while ignoring task-irrelevant features. In this paper, we present a method for uncertainty-aware robotic perception that combines generative modeling and model uncertainty. Our method estimates an uncertainty measure about the model's prediction, taking into account an explicit generative model of the observation distribution to handle out-of-distribution inputs. We evaluate our method on an action-conditioned collision prediction task with both simulated and real data, and demonstrate that our approach improves on a variety of Bayesian neural network techniques.

Title: Multimodal Trajectory Predictions for Autonomous Driving using Deep Convolutional Networks
Key Words: convolutional neural nets  driver information systems  feature extraction  image processing  mobile robots  probability  road accidents  road safety  road traffic  road vehicles  multimodal trajectory predictions  autonomous driving  deep convolutional networks  robotics  artificial intelligence communities  self-driving vehicles  SDVs  road accidents  human drivers  traffic behavior  safe operations  autonomous vehicle  raster image  probabilities  Trajectory  Predictive models  Roads  Hidden Markov models  Task analysis  Radar tracking 
Abstract: Autonomous driving presents one of the largest problems that the robotics and artificial intelligence communities are facing at the moment, both in terms of difficulty and potential societal impact. Self-driving vehicles (SDVs) are expected to prevent road accidents and save millions of lives while improving the livelihood and life quality of many more. However, despite large interest and a number of industry players working in the autonomous domain, there still remains more to be done in order to develop a system capable of operating at a level comparable to best human drivers. One reason for this is high uncertainty of traffic behavior and large number of situations that an SDV may encounter on the roads, making it very difficult to create a fully generalizable system. To ensure safe and efficient operations, an autonomous vehicle is required to account for this uncertainty and to anticipate a multitude of possible behaviors of traffic actors in its surrounding. We address this critical problem and present a method to predict multiple possible trajectories of actors while also estimating their probabilities. The method encodes each actor's surrounding context into a raster image, used as input by deep convolutional networks to automatically derive relevant features for the task. Following extensive offline evaluation and comparison to state-of-the-art baselines, the method was successfully tested on SDVs in closed-course tests.

Title: Classifying Pedestrian Actions In Advance Using Predicted Video Of Urban Driving Scenes
Key Words: feature extraction  graphics processing units  image classification  image representation  image sequences  learning (artificial intelligence)  pedestrians  traffic engineering computing  video signal processing  encoder-decoder network models  predicted video  urban driving scenes  traffic scene  pedestrian behaviour  urban pedestrian  binary action classifier  iterative transform  image sequence  GPU  Hidden Markov models  Decoding  Predictive models  Kernel  Training  Automobiles  Iterative decoding 
Abstract: Fig. 1.Generating predictions of a future for a pedestrian attempting to cross the street. We pick out two key frames from the (a) input sequence and the (b) ground truth sequence, 16 frames apart. Image (c) shows our prediction at the same time instant as the ground truth.We explore prediction of urban pedestrian actions by generating a video future of the traffic scene, and show promising results in classifying pedestrian behaviour before it is observed. We compare several encoder-decoder network models that predict 16 frames (400-600 milliseconds of video) from the preceding 16 frames. Our main contribution is a method for learning a sequence of representations to iteratively transform features learnt from the input to the future. Then we use a binary action classifier network for determining a pedestrian's crossing intent from predicted video. Our results show an average precision of 81%, significantly higher than previous methods. The model with the best classification performance runs for 117 ms on commodity GPU, giving an effective look-ahead of 416 ms.

Title: Lightweight Contrast Modeling for Attention-Aware Visual Localization
Key Words: intelligent robots  object detection  salient object detection task  object saliency details  lightweight refinement module  high-level visual contrast  superior lightweight network architecture  computational resource consumption  detection performance  attention-aware visual objects  attention-aware visual localization  lightweight contrast modeling  Convolution  Visualization  Object detection  Feature extraction  Robots  Training  Task analysis 
Abstract: Salient object detection, which aims at localizing the attention-aware visual objects, is the indispensable technology for intelligent robots to understand and interact with the complicated environments. Existing salient object detection approaches mainly focus on the optimization of detection performance, while ignoring the considerations for computational resource consumption and algorithm efficiency. Contrarily, we build a superior lightweight network architecture to simultaneously improve performance on both accuracy and efficiency for salient object detection. Specifically, our proposed approach adopts the lightweight bottleneck as its primary building block to significantly reduce the number of parameters and to speed up the process of training and inference. In practice, the visual contrast is insufficiently discovered with the limitation of the small empirical receptive field of CNN. To alleviate this issue, we design a multi-scale convolution module to rapidly discover high-level visual contrast. Moreover, a lightweight refinement module is utilized to restore object saliency details with negligible extra cost. Extensive experiments on efficiency and accuracy trade-offs show that our model is more competitive than the state-of-the-art works on salient object detection task and has prominent potentials for robots applications in real time.

Title: Learning to Write Anywhere with Spatial Transformer Image-to-Motion Encoder-Decoder Networks
Key Words: affine transforms  handwritten character recognition  humanoid robots  image coding  image motion analysis  learning (artificial intelligence)  robot vision  DMP  digit drawings  image-to-motion encoder-decoder networks  convolutional layers  humanoid robot  affine transformed digits  fully differentiable overall network  spatial transformer  motion trajectories  digit images  robot vision  handwritten characters  Trajectory  Robots  Transforms  Task analysis  Writing  Neural networks  Decoding 
Abstract: Learning to recognize and reproduce handwritten characters is already a challenging task both for humans and robots alike, but learning to do the same thing for characters that can be transformed arbitrarily in space, as humans do when writing on a blackboard for instance, significantly ups the ante from a robot vision and control perspective. In previous work we proposed various different forms of encoder-decoder networks that were capable of mapping raw images of digits to dynamic movement primitives (DMPs) such that a robot could learn to translate the digit images into motion trajectories in order to reproduce them in written form. However, even with the addition of convolutional layers in the image encoder, the extent to which these networks are spatially invariant or equivariant is rather limited. In this paper, we propose a new architecture that incorporates both an image-to-motion encoder-decoder and a spatial transformer in a fully differentiable overall network that learns to rectify affine transformed digits in input images into canonical forms, before converting them into DMPs with accompanying motion trajectories that are finally transformed back to match up with the original digit drawings such that a robot can write them in their original forms. We present experiments with various challenging datasets that demonstrate the superiority of the new architecture compared to our previous work and demonstrate its use with a humanoid robot in a real writing task.

Title: Motion Planning Networks
Key Words: collision avoidance  computational complexity  manipulators  mobile robots  motion control  neurocontrollers  computational complexity  neural network  collision-free paths  motion planning networks  robotics applications  self-driving cars  7 DOF Baxter robot manipulator  MPNet  Planning  Three-dimensional displays  Neural networks  Training  Manipulators  Encoding 
Abstract: Fast and efficient motion planning algorithms are crucial for many state-of-the-art robotics applications such as self-driving cars. Existing motion planning methods become ineffective as their computational complexity increases exponentially with the dimensionality of the motion planning problem. To address this issue, we present Motion Planning Networks (MPNet), a neural network-based novel planning algorithm. The proposed method encodes the given workspaces directly from a point cloud measurement and generates the end-to-end collision-free paths for the given start and goal configurations. We evaluate MPNet on various 2D and 3D environments including the planning of a 7 DOF Baxter robot manipulator. The results show that MPNet is not only consistently computationally efficient in all environments but also generalizes to completely unseen environments. The results also show that the computation time of MPNet consistently remains less than 1 second in all presented experiments, which is significantly lower than existing state-of-the-art motion planning algorithms.

Title: Improving Data Efficiency of Self-supervised Learning for Robotic Grasping
Key Words: convolutional neural nets  force feedback  grippers  learning (artificial intelligence)  manipulators  robot vision  fully-convolutional neural network  gripper parameters  inference performance  random grasp success rate  grasp space  systematic manner  typical bin picking scenarios  self-supervised learning  robotic grasping  depth camera input  gripper force feedback  learning algorithm  geometric consistency  undistorted depth images  task space  grasp attempts  data efficiency  training data  Grasping  Grippers  Robot kinematics  Artificial neural networks  Task analysis  Training 
Abstract: Given the task of learning robotic grasping solely based on a depth camera input and gripper force feedback, we derive a learning algorithm from an applied point of view to significantly reduce the amount of required training data. Major improvements in time and data efficiency are achieved by: Firstly, we exploit the geometric consistency between the undistorted depth images and the task space. Using a relative small, fully-convolutional neural network, we predict grasp and gripper parameters with great advantages in training as well as inference performance. Secondly, motivated by the small random grasp success rate of around 3 %, the grasp space was explored in a systematic manner. The final system was learned with 23 000 grasp attempts in around 60 h, improving current solutions by an order of magnitude. For typical bin picking scenarios, we measured a grasp success rate of (96.6 ± 1.0) %. Further experiments showed that the system is able to generalize and transfer knowledge to novel objects and environments.

Title: Online Object and Task Learning via Human Robot Interaction
Key Words: force control  human-robot interaction  learning (artificial intelligence)  motion control  neural nets  deep learning based localization  recognition system  intuitive user interface  3D motion task  hybrid force-vision control module  compliant motion  task learning  human robot interaction  KUKA Innovation Award competition  Hanover Messe 2018  online object learning  incremental object learning module  Robots  Education  Three-dimensional displays  Task analysis  Feature extraction  Human-robot interaction 
Abstract: This work describes the development of a robotic system that acquires knowledge incrementally through human interaction where new objects and motions are taught on the fly. The robotic system developed was one of the five finalists in the KUKA Innovation Award competition and demonstrated during the Hanover Messe 2018 in Germany. The main contributions of the system are i) a novel incremental object learning module - a deep learning based localization and recognition system - that allows a human to teach new objects to the robot, ii) an intuitive user interface for specifying 3D motion task associated with the new object, and iii) a hybrid force-vision control module for performing compliant motion on an unstructured surface. This paper describes the implementation and integration of the main modules of the system and summarizes the lessons learned from the competition.

Title: Dynamic Manipulation of Flexible Objects with Torque Sequence Using a Deep Neural Network
Key Words: control engineering computing  flexible manipulators  manipulator dynamics  motion control  neural nets  time series  torque control  dynamic manipulation  torque sequence  deep neural network  acquisition method  flexible object motion equation model  time-series joint torque command  Torque  Mathematical model  Dynamics  Optical imaging  Manipulator dynamics  Real-time systems 
Abstract: For dynamic manipulation of flexible objects, we propose an acquisition method of a flexible object motion equation model using a deep neural network and a control method to realize a target state by calculating an optimized time-series joint torque command. By using the proposed method, any physics model of a target object is not needed, and the object can be controlled as intended. We applied this method to manipulations of a rigid object, a flexible object with and without environmental contact, and a cloth, and verified its effectiveness.

Title: Color-Coded Fiber-Optic Tactile Sensor for an Elastomeric Robot Skin
Key Words: cameras  robots  tactile sensors  contact localization  robotic perception system  force sensing range  color-coded tactile sensor  tactile exploration  robust tactile sensing  color-coded fiber-optic tactile sensor  elastomeric robot skin  artificial tactile skin  transparent silicone rubber  off-the-shelf color camera  camera POFs  Optical sensors  Tactile sensors  Image color analysis  Cameras 
Abstract: The sense of touch is essential for reliable mapping between the environment and a robot which interacts physically with objects. Presumably, an artificial tactile skin would facilitate safe interaction of the robots with the environment. In this work, we present our color-coded tactile sensor, incorporating plastic optical fibers (POF), transparent silicone rubber and an off-the-shelf color camera. Processing electronics are placed away from the sensing surface to make the sensor robust to harsh environments. Contact localization is possible thanks to the lower number of light sources compared to the number of camera POFs. Classical machine learning techniques and a hierarchical classification scheme were used for contact localization. Specifically, we generated the mapping from stimulation to sensation of a robotic perception system using our sensor. We achieved a force sensing range up to 18 N with the force resolution of around 3.6 N and the spatial resolution of 8 mm. The color-coded tactile sensor is suitable for tactile exploration and might enable further innovations in robust tactile sensing.

Title: Reinforcement Learning in Topology-based Representation for Human Body Movement with Whole Arm Manipulation
Key Words: humanoid robots  human-robot interaction  learning (artificial intelligence)  manipulator dynamics  medical robotics  path planning  patient care  position control  topology-based representation  human body movement  bulky object  WAM  manipulation places  global properties  local contacts  grasping  reinforcement learning problem  robot behavior  human motion  robot-human interaction  topology-based coordinates  torso positions  learned policy  body shapes  dynamic sea rescue scenario  unseen scenarios  differently-shaped humans  whole arm manipulation  Robot kinematics  Humanoid robots  Manipulators  Laplace equations  Torso  Shape 
Abstract: Moving a human body or a large and bulky object may require the strength of whole arm manipulation (WAM). This type of manipulation places the load on the robot's arms and relies on global properties of the interaction to succeed- rather than local contacts such as grasping or non-prehensile pushing. In this paper, we learn to generate motions that enable WAM for holding and transporting of humans in certain rescue or patient care scenarios. We model the task as a reinforcement learning problem in order to provide a robot behavior that can directly respond to external perturbation and human motion. For this, we represent global properties of the robot-human interaction with topology-based coordinates that are computed from arm and torso positions. These coordinates also allow transferring the learned policy to other body shapes and sizes. For training and evaluation, we simulate a dynamic sea rescue scenario and show in quantitative experiments that the policy can solve unseen scenarios with differently-shaped humans, floating humans, or with perception noise. Our qualitative experiments show the subsequent transporting after holding is achieved and we demonstrate that the policy can be directly transferred to a real world setting.

Title: Demonstration-Guided Deep Reinforcement Learning of Control Policies for Dexterous Human-Robot Interaction
Key Words: dexterous manipulators  humanoid robots  human-robot interaction  learning (artificial intelligence)  motion control  neural nets  handshake  hand clap  finger touch  training control policies  human-robot interactions  hand claps  humanoid Shadow Dexterous Hand  robot arm  multiobjective reward function  reward structure  motion capture data  human-human interactions  hand interactions  dexterous human-robot interaction  demonstration-guided deep reinforcement learning  Training  Humanoid robots  Task analysis  Robot kinematics  Reinforcement learning  Convergence 
Abstract: In this paper, we propose a method for training control policies for human-robot interactions such as handshakes or hand claps via Deep Reinforcement Learning. The policy controls a humanoid Shadow Dexterous Hand, attached to a robot arm. We propose a parameterizable multi-objective reward function that allows learning of a variety of interactions without changing the reward structure. The parameters of the reward function are estimated directly from motion capture data of human-human interactions in order to produce policies that are perceived as being natural and human-like by observers. We evaluate our method on three significantly different hand interactions: handshake, hand clap and finger touch. We provide detailed analysis of the proposed reward function and the resulting policies and conduct a large-scale user study, indicating that our policy produces natural looking motions.

Title: Team-Based Robot Righting via Pushing and Shell Design
Key Words: control system synthesis  mobile robots  multi-robot systems  shells (structures)  team-based robot righting  minimalist robot designs  specialized escape actuator  emergency actuator  teammate pushing  VelociRoACH robots  robot exterior hull  shell design  Force  Friction  Shape  Actuators  Robot kinematics  Potential energy 
Abstract: The minimalist robot designs typically employed in swarms and teams can fall and get trapped when traversing irregular terrain. To protect against this contingency the design could add a specialized escape actuator, but each actuator drives up cost multiplicatively for the whole team. Instead, the emergency actuator can be found for free in the form of another teammate. Teammate pushing can be efficiently directed by careful shaping of the robot's exterior hull. This approach is illustrated by designing a shell for VelociRoACH robots that enables them to roll pronated comrades back onto their feet. The designed maneuver can be performed in open-loop with 87% success and an average time of 0.7 seconds.

Title: Deformation-based shape control with a multirobot system
Key Words: feedback  gradient methods  manipulators  mobile robots  multi-robot systems  2D space  useful team behaviors  deformation-based control framework  manipulation task  resulting multirobot controller  robot motions  feedback loop  global measure  typical goal  deformable object  application scenario  robotic team  multirobot system  deformation-based shape control  Robot kinematics  Shape  Strain  Task analysis  Geometry  Shape control 
Abstract: We present a novel method to control the relative positions of the members of a robotic team. The application scenario we consider is the cooperative manipulation of a deformable object in 2D space. A typical goal in this kind of scenario is to minimize the deformation of the object with respect to a desired state. Our contribution, then, is to use a global measure of deformation directly in the feedback loop. In particular, the robot motions are based on the descent along the gradient of a metric that expresses the difference between the team's current configuration and its desired shape. Crucially, the resulting multirobot controller has a simple expression and is inexpensive to compute, and the approach lends itself to analysis of both the transient and asymptotic dynamics of the system. This analysis reveals a number of properties that are interesting for a manipulation task: fundamental geometric parameters of the team (size, orientation, centroid, and distances between robots) can be suitably steered or bounded. We describe different policies within the proposed deformation-based control framework that produce useful team behaviors. We illustrate the methodology with computer simulations.

Title: One-to-many bipartite matching based coalition formation for multi-robot task allocation
Key Words: approximation theory  computational complexity  graph theory  multi-robot systems  multirobot task allocation  multirobot coalition formation  OTMaM problem  multiple robots  robot-task pairs  worst-case approximation ratio  worst-case time complexity  NP-hard problem  one-to-many bipartite matching based coalition formation  Task analysis  Robot kinematics  Resource management  Bipartite graph  Approximation algorithms  Time complexity 
Abstract: In this paper, we study the NP-Hard problem of multi-robot coalition formation for task allocation. To tackle this notoriously difficult problem, we model it as a variant of classical bipartite matching, which we call One-To-Many Bipartite Matching (OTMaM). Unlike the classical bipartite matching techniques used for matching a unique robot to a unique task, in the OTMaM problem, we let multiple robots to be matched to a single task while restricting the opposite. To this end, we propose a novel heuristic algorithm that allocates robots to tasks by finding mutually best robot-task pairs. Our algorithm provides a similar theoretical worst-case approximation ratio and guarantees a better worst-case time complexity than a comparable algorithm from the literature. The proposed approach in this paper is proved to be deterministic and the resultant matching is perfect. Simulation results also demonstrate the scalability of the presented algorithm (taking less than 1 millisecond with 100 robots and 10 tasks).

Title: Coordinated multi-robot planning while preserving individual privacy
Key Words: collision avoidance  cryptography  data privacy  mobile robots  motion control  multi-robot systems  coordinated multirobot planning  individual privacy  multiple robots  privacy-preserving rendezvous  persistent monitoring  joint plan  collective motions  collective task  joint-collision determination  mobile robots  secure path intersection primitives  homomorphic encryption  Robot kinematics  Collision avoidance  Protocols  Task analysis  Privacy  Encryption 
Abstract: We consider the problem of multiple robots that must cooperate within a shared environment, but which wish to limit the information they disclose during their coordination efforts. Specifically, we examine the problems of privacy-preserving rendezvous and persistent monitoring. In the former, the robots construct a joint plan to have them meet, without either knowing beforehand where or when the meeting will occur. In the latter, multiple robots dynamically cover a region of space-they plan collective motions which are collision-free but with the assurance that agents remain ignorant of the paths of others. Accordingly, the tasks are sort of inverses in that the robots must collectively determine whether their joint paths collide or not, then, using this, achieve their collective task. Other than what is learned by the outcome of the joint-collision determination, the robots possess no details of the other paths. Our approach builds on garbled circuits and homomorphic encryption to realize basic secure path intersection primitives. We present algorithms, a software implementation, and a physical experiment on mobile robots to test the practical feasibility of our approach. We believe that these ideas provide a valuable direction for adoption in small Unmanned Systems belonging to different stakeholders.

Title: Multi-Agent Synchronization Using Online Model-Free Action Dependent Dual Heuristic Dynamic Programming Approach
Key Words: adaptive control  approximation theory  discrete time systems  dynamic programming  iterative methods  learning systems  multi-agent systems  neurocontrollers  nonlinear control systems  optimal control  action dependent dual heuristic dynamic programming schemes  fast solution platforms  unknown models  uncertain dynamical models  online model-free adaptive  dynamic graphical games  approximate the optimal value function  associated model-free control strategy  model-free coupled Bellman optimality equation  multiagent synchronization  online model-free action dependent dual heuristic dynamic programming approach  approximate dynamic programming platforms  agents interaction  communication graphs  policy iteration process  Mathematical model  Adaptation models  Optimal control  Dynamic programming  Synchronization  Games  Neural networks 
Abstract: Approximate dynamic programming platforms are employed to solve dynamic graphical games, where the agents interact among each other using communication graphs in order to achieve synchronization. Although the action dependent dual heuristic dynamic programming schemes provide fast solution platforms for several control problems, their capabilities degrade for systems with unknown or uncertain dynamical models. An online model-free adaptive learning solution based on action dependent dual heuristic dynamic programming is proposed to solve the dynamic graphical games. It employs distributed actor-critic neural networks to approximate the optimal value function and the associated model-free control strategy for each agent. This is done using a policy iteration process where it does not employ any extensive computational effort, as traditionally observed. The duality between the model-free coupled Bellman optimality equation and the underlying coupled Riccati equation is highlighted. This is followed by a graph simulation scenario to test the usefulness of the proposed policy iteration process.

Title: Robust Area Coverage with Connectivity Maintenance
Key Words: computational geometry  multi-robot systems  robust swarm connectivity  coverage task  Khepera IV robots  tri-objective control law  potential-based coverage  network connectivity  robust area coverage  connectivity maintenance  robotic swarm  control laws  swarm robotics  globally coordinated behavior  Voronoi tessellation  Robot kinematics  Robustness  Multi-robot systems  Maintenance engineering  Robot sensing systems  Task analysis 
Abstract: Robot swarms herald the ability to solve complex tasks using a large collection of simple devices. However, engineering a robotic swarm is far from trivial, with a major hurdle being the definition of the control laws leading to the desired globally coordinated behavior. Communication is a key element for coordination and it is considered one of the current most important challenges for swarm robotics. In this paper, we study the problem of maintaining robust swarm connectivity while performing a coverage task based on the Voronoi tessellation of an area of interest. We implement our methodology in a team of eight Khepera IV robots. With the assumptions that robots have a limited sensing and communication range-and cannot rely on centralized processing-we propose a tri-objective control law that outperforms other simpler strategies (e.g. a potential-based coverage) in terms of network connectivity, robustness to failure, and area coverage.

Title: Living with a Mobile Companion Robot in your Own Apartment - Final Implementation and Results of a 20-Weeks Field Study with 20 Seniors*
Key Words: geriatrics  home automation  mobile robots  service robots  mobile companion robot  apartment  German research project SYMPARTNER  functional-emotional robot companion  mobile domestic robot companion  elderly people  developed robot  system architecture  essential skills  friendly home companion  long-term field study  robustness  domestic operating conditions  social scientific questions  autonomous companion robots  single-person households  senior households  time 20 week  Tactile sensors  Three-dimensional displays  Legged locomotion  Navigation 
Abstract: This paper presents the results of the German research project SYMPARTNER (4/2015 - 6/2018), which aimed at developing a functional-emotional, mobile domestic robot companion for elderly people. The paper gives an overview of the developed robot, its system architecture, and essential skills and behaviors required for being a friendly home companion. Based on this, in a long-term field study running from January to June 2018 both technical aspects regarding the practical suitability and robustness of the robot under domestic operating conditions and social scientific questions on usability and acceptance of the robot and the users' familiarization with their new housemate were evaluated. In the field study, two of these autonomous companion robots were used in 20 senior households in Erfurt (Germany). All participants lived with their robot in their apartments for one week without the need for supervising or supporting persons being present on-site. The tests in 20 single-person households in the age group 62 to 94 years (average 74 years) provided important insights into the special challenges of domesticity from a technical, social scientific, and user-oriented point of view. The results of the study show how seniors can shape their everyday life with a companion robot and how quickly they get used to the new housemate.

Title: Enabling Identity-Aware Tracking via Fusion of Visual and Inertial Features
Key Words: calibration  robot vision  sensor fusion  synchronisation  target tracking  robust PIT  data fusion technique  RGB-D camera  wearable inertial sensors  time synchronization  robotic platform  biological feature  recognition rate  visual features  inertial features  computer vision  robotic applications  RFID  environmental constraints  recognition accuracy  identity-aware tracking  Skeleton  Cameras  Robot sensing systems  Target tracking  Robot kinematics  Computer Vision  Data Fusion  IoT  Person Identification  Tracking  Robotics  Wearable Computing 
Abstract: Person identification and tracking (PIT) is an essential issue in computer vision and robotic applications. It has long been studied and achieved by technologies such as RFID or face/fingerprint/iris recognition. These approaches, however, have their limitations due to environmental constraints (such as lighting and obstacles) or require close contact to specific devices. Therefore, their recognition accuracy highly depends on use scenarios. In this work, we propose RCU (Robot Catch yoU), an accompanyist robot system that provides follow-me or guide-me services. Such robots are capable of distinguishing users' profiles in front of them and keep tracking a specific target person. We study a more challenging scenario where the target person may be under occlusion from time to time. To enable robust PIT, we develop a data fusion technique that integrates two types of sensors, an RGB-D camera and wearable inertial sensors. Since the data generated by these sensors share common features, we are able to fuse them to achieve identity-aware tracking. Practical issues, such as time synchronization and coordinate calibration, are also addressed. We implement our design on a robotic platform and show that it can track a target person even when no biological feature is captured by the RGB-D camera. Our experimental evaluation shows a recognition rate of 95% and a following rate of 88%.

Title: Inverse Reinforcement Learning of Interaction Dynamics from Demonstrations
Key Words: decision theory  human-robot interaction  learning (artificial intelligence)  Markov processes  inverse reinforcement learning methods  high-level sequential tasks  human demonstrations  POMDP policies  interaction dynamics  human-robot interaction domain  structured interactions  partially observable Markov decision process  learning from demonstration  IRL algorithms  reward function learning  MDPIRL algorithm  Robots  Task analysis  Education  Reinforcement learning  Uncertainty  Aircraft navigation  Human-robot interaction 
Abstract: This paper presents a framework to learn the reward function underlying high-level sequential tasks from demonstrations. The purpose of reward learning, in the context of learning from demonstration (LfD), is to generate policies that mimic the demonstrator's policies, thereby enabling imitation learning. We focus on a human-robot interaction (HRI) domain where the goal is to learn and model structured interactions between a human and a robot. Such interactions can be modeled as a partially observable Markov decision process (POMDP) where the partial observability is caused by uncertainties associated with the ways humans respond to different stimuli. The key challenge in finding a good policy in such a POMDP is determining the reward function that was observed by the demonstrator. Existing inverse reinforcement learning (IRL) methods for POMDPs are computationally very expensive and the problem is not well understood. In comparison, IRL algorithms for Markov decision process (MDP) are well defined and computationally efficient. We propose an approach of reward function learning for high-level sequential tasks from human demonstrations where the core idea is to reduce the underlying POMDP to an MDP and apply any efficient MDPIRL algorithm. Our extensive experiments suggest that the reward function learned this way generates POMDP policies that mimic the policies of the demonstrator well.

Title: Investigating Design Elements of Companion Robots for Older Adults
Key Words: age issues  design engineering  health care  human-robot interaction  medical robotics  psychology  service robots  older adults  robot design elements  depression  physical preferences  psychological health  depressive symptoms  companion robots  Robots  Dogs  Analysis of variance  Pediatrics  Psychology  Synthetic fibers  Aging 
Abstract: Older adults are vulnerable to symptoms of depression. The degree of depression is particularly high among older adults who live alone. To address this issue, various companion robots, which are capable of psychologically communicating with users, have been proposed. However, older adults' preferences on the appearance of these robots have not been systematically investigated; this forms the focus of the present study. We interviewed 191 older adults; investigated their preferences on the design elements of robots including type, weight, and material; and analyzed the data by age, gender, and living arrangement. Our primary goal was to determine how companion robots should be designed, paying special attention to older adults who live alone. Our findings indicated that those living alone prefer a bear-like robot and negative to the heavy robot. Our results suggest that companion robots need to be designed with careful consideration of older adults' physical and psychological preferences.

Title: Development of Informative Path Planning for Inspection of the Hanford Tank Farm
Key Words: inspection  mobile robots  optimisation  path planning  rastering technique  high-level nuclear waste tanks  Hanford facility  robotic inspection  utility function  informative path planning  Hanford tank farm  structural monitoring  static sensor networks  predetermined locations  mobile robots  Bayesian optimization approach  Robot sensing systems  Kernel  Inspection  Temperature measurement  Gaussian processes  Welding 
Abstract: Traditional environmental and structural monitoring often uses static sensor networks deployed at predetermined locations or mobile robots that use a rastering technique for area coverage. These methods rely on the operators making assumptions about the nature of the unknown field that is being measured and are often time-consuming for localizing an area of interest. Here, we aim to quickly localize possible leaks within high-level nuclear waste tanks at the Hanford facility. The structure of these tanks precludes most sensor network approaches and raises many issues with robotic inspection, such as navigation within highly constrained environments. This work uses a Bayesian Optimization approach for guiding a mobile robot's search strategy and implements a utility function that allows for prior knowledge of the structure to be incorporated when selecting future search locations. Compared to traditional exhaustive approaches, our method quickly reduces RMSE error and shortens the distance the robot must travel.

Title: A Fuzzy Based Accessibility Model for Disaster Environment
Key Words: angular velocity control  collision avoidance  disasters  fuzzy control  fuzzy reasoning  mobile robots  motion control  navigation  terrain accessibility index  robots position  angular velocities  VFH algorithm  disaster prone environment  FISVFH algorithm  fuzzy based accessibility model  disaster environment  autonomous maneuvering  robot estimate  two-output fuzzy inference system  sector accessibility index  fuzzy inference system vector field histogram method  obstacle distance  linear velocities  two-input fuzzy inference system  Indexes  Angular velocity  Fuzzy logic  Robot sensing systems  Histograms  Mobile robots 
Abstract: Robots that perform autonomous maneuvering in a disaster environment usually dont have perfect understanding of the environment in advance. The robot is continuously evaluating the environment as it proceeds, deciding the optimal way to traverse the environment to get to the goal. A critical aspect of this decision is the robot estimate of the terrain accessibility index, which quantifies how easy it is to navigate through the immediate terrain. This paper represents a new method to calculate terrain accessibility index based on obstacle distance to the robots position. In addition, a Fuzzy Inference System Vector Field Histogram (FISVFH) method has been designed for automating the selection of the robots linear and angular velocities in the VFH (Vector Field Histogram) algorithm, based on the calculated sector accessibility index. The proposed method is a two-input and two-output Fuzzy Inference System, where the current robot heading, and sector accessibility index serve as the input, and the corresponding linear and angular velocities to the VFH algorithm are outputs. The VFH, VFH + and FISVFH are tested both in simulation and experimentation in 4 environments that are known to result in failures in VFH and VFH +, for comparison purposes. In addition, the algorithm was verified through experimental setup of a disaster prone environment. In both simulation and experimentation the results show that FISVFH outperforms VFH and VFH +. It is also shown that the FISVFH algorithm is capable of handling the disaster prone environment. Overall, the FISVFH algorithm enables the robot to get to the goal faster and also produces a smoother path while doing so.

Title: Learning to Predict the Wind for Safe Aerial Vehicle Planning
Key Words: autonomous aerial vehicles  convolutional neural nets  mobile robots  path planning  sampling methods  wind  safe aerial vehicle planning  local wind  unmanned aerial vehicles  wind environment  relatively low mass  high-resolution wind fields  terrain elevation model  deep convolutional neural network  sampling-based planner  strong wind scenarios  UAV  inflow conditions  prediction error  wind estimation techniques  Wind forecasting  Planning  Computational modeling  Wind speed  Predictive models  Data models 
Abstract: Obtaining an accurate estimate of the local wind remains a significant challenge for small unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs). Small UAVs often operate at low altitudes near terrain, where the wind environment can be more complex than at higher altitudes. Combined with their relatively low mass, this makes small UAVs particularly susceptible to wind. In this paper we present an approach for predicting high-resolution wind fields based on a terrain elevation model and known inflow conditions. Our approach uses a deep convolutional neural network (CNN) to generate 3D wind estimates. We show that our approach produces wind estimates with lower prediction error than existing methods, and that inference can be performed on an on-board computer in less than two seconds. By providing the wind estimate to a sampling-based planner we show that the improved estimates allow the planner to generate safer paths in strong wind scenarios than with alternative wind estimation techniques.

Title: Distributed Radiation Field Estimation and Informative Path Planning for Nuclear Environment Characterization
Key Words: Global Positioning System  mobile robots  optical radar  path planning  photomultipliers  scintillation counters  solid scintillation detectors  thallium  distributed radiation field estimation  informative path planning  nuclear environment characterization  autonomous estimation  distributed nuclear radiation fields  GPS-denied environments  sensing apparatus  radially placed Thallium-doped Cesium Iodide  Silicon Photomultipliers  pulse counting circuitry  provided readings  LiDAR-based localization  radiation intensity readings  immediate field gradient  believed field intensity  local measurement  field gradient co-estimation  informative data gathering  path planning strategy  uncertainty  admissible paths  autonomous exploration  SiPm  Estimation  Detectors  Robot sensing systems  Path planning  Uncertainty  Area measurement 
Abstract: This paper details the system and methods designed to enable the autonomous estimation of distributed nuclear radiation fields within complex and possibly GPS-denied environments. A sensing apparatus consisting of three radially placed Thallium-doped Cesium Iodide (CsI(Tl)) scintillators and Silicon Photomultipliers (SiPm) combined with custom- built pulse counting circuitry is designed and the provided readings are pose-annotated using LiDAR-based localization. Given this capacity, a method that utilizes the radiation intensity readings to first calculate the immediate field gradient and then combine this information to update and co-estimate the believed field intensity and gradient across the whole environment is developed. The strategy propagates the effect of each local measurement through field gradient co-estimation and simultaneously derives a model of the underlying uncertainty. To further support the need for informative data gathering, especially in the framework of emergency and rapid reconnaissance missions, a path planning strategy is also developed that first utilizes the field intensity and uncertainty estimates to select its new waypoint and then performs terrain traversability analysis to derive admissible paths. The complete system is evaluated both in simulation and experimentally. The experimental results refer to the autonomous exploration and field estimation inside an indoor facility within which actual radioactive uranium and thorium ore sources have been distributed.

Title: Visual recognition in the wild by sampling deep similarity functions
Key Words: convolutional neural nets  image representation  learning (artificial intelligence)  mobile robots  object recognition  pattern classification  probability  probabilities  class variability  images range  training exemplars  relative similarities  class predictions  class labels  CNN  test data  training data  recognition system  target class  deep convolutional neural networks  supervised machine learning  autonomous robot  deep similarity functions  visual recognition  Training  Computer aided instruction  Visualization  Robots  Neural networks  Labeling  Task analysis 
Abstract: Recognising relevant objects or object states in its environment is a basic capability for an autonomous robot. The dominant approach to object recognition in images and range images is classification by supervised machine learning, nowadays mostly with deep convolutional neural networks (CNNs). This works well for target classes whose variability can be completely covered with training examples. However, a robot moving in the wild, i.e., in an environment that is not known at the time the recognition system is trained, will often face domain shift: the training data cannot be assumed to exhaustively cover all the within-class variability that will be encountered in the test data. In that situation, learning is in principle possible, since the training set does capture the defining properties, respectively dissimilarities, of the target classes. But directly training a CNN to predict class probabilities is prone to overfitting to irrelevant correlations between the class labels and the specific subset of the target class that is represented in the training set. We explore the idea to instead learn a Siamese CNN that acts as similarity function between pairs of training examples. Class predictions are then obtained by measuring the similarities between a new test instance and the training samples. We show that the CNN embedding correctly recovers the relative similarities to arbitrary class exemplars in the training set. And that therefore few, randomly picked training exemplars are sufficient to achieve good predictions, making the procedure efficient.

Title: Evaluating Merging Strategies for Sampling-based Uncertainty Techniques in Object Detection
Key Words: merging  neural nets  object detection  pattern clustering  sampling methods  statistical analysis  merging strategies  sampling-based uncertainty techniques  epistemic uncertainty  deep neural networks  affinity-clustering combination  spatial uncertainty estimation  object detection  Uncertainty  Object detection  Detectors  Clustering methods  Semantics  Measurement uncertainty  Robots 
Abstract: There has been a recent emergence of sampling-based techniques for estimating epistemic uncertainty in deep neural networks. While these methods can be applied to classification or semantic segmentation tasks by simply averaging samples, this is not the case for object detection, where detection sample bounding boxes must be accurately associated and merged. A weak merging strategy can significantly degrade the performance of the detector and yield an unreliable uncertainty measure. This paper provides the first in-depth investigation of the effect of different association and merging strategies. We compare different combinations of three spatial and two semantic affinity measures with four clustering methods for MC Dropout with a Single Shot Multi-Box Detector. Our results show that the correct choice of affinity-clustering combination can greatly improve the effectiveness of the classification and spatial uncertainty estimation and the resulting object detection performance. We base our evaluation on a new mix of datasets that emulate near open-set conditions (semantically similar unknown classes), distant open-set conditions (semantically dissimilar unknown classes) and the common closed-set conditions (only known classes).

Title: Training a Binary Weight Object Detector by Knowledge Transfer for Autonomous Driving
Key Words: computer vision  convolutional neural nets  learning (artificial intelligence)  object detection  road traffic  traffic engineering computing  binary weight object detector  autonomous driving  energy efficiency  on-board object detection  object detectors  low-precision neural networks  computation requirements  memory footprint  binary weight neural networks  BWNs  knowledge transfer method  full-precision teacher network  MobileNet-based binary weight YOLOv2 detectors  pedestrian  cyclist detection  KITTI benchmark  MobileNet-YOLO  DarkNet-YOLO  deep convolutional neural network  word length 1.0 bit  memory size 8.8 MByte to 257.0 MByte  memory size 7.9 MByte to 193.0 MByte  Training  Detectors  Neural networks  Quantization (signal)  Knowledge transfer  Task analysis  Autonomous vehicles 
Abstract: Autonomous driving has harsh requirements of small model size and energy efficiency, in order to enable the embedded system to achieve real-time on-board object detection. Recent deep convolutional neural network based object detectors have achieved state-of-the-art accuracy. However, such models are trained with numerous parameters and their high computational costs and large storage prohibit the deployment to memory and computation resource limited systems. Low-precision neural networks are popular techniques for reducing the computation requirements and memory footprint. Among them, binary weight neural networks (BWNs) are the extreme case which quantizes the float-point into just 1 bit. BWNs are difficult to train and suffer from accuracy deprecation due to the extreme low-bit representation. To address this problem, we propose a knowledge transfer (KT) method to aid the training of BWN using a full-precision teacher network. We built DarkNet- and MobileNet-based binary weight YOLOv2 detectors and conduct experiments on KITTI benchmark for car, pedestrian and cyclist detection. The experimental results show that the proposed method maintains high detection accuracy while reducing the model size of DarkNet-YOLO from 257 MB to 8.8 MB and MobileNet-YOLO from 193 MB to 7.9 MB.

Title: Visual SLAM: Why Bundle Adjust?
Key Words: cameras  feature extraction  image sequences  motion estimation  optimisation  pose estimation  robot vision  SLAM (robots)  video signal processing  bundle adjustment  feature-based monocular SLAM  camera orientation optimisation  camera position estimation  quasiconvex formulation  keyframe rate  SLAM optimisation  rotational motion  slow motion  SLAM algorithm  3D structure estimation  input feature tracks  3D point cloud  3D map estimation  6DOF camera trajectory estimation  visual SLAM  Simultaneous localization and mapping  Cameras  Estimation  Bundle adjustment  Optimization  Visualization 
Abstract: Bundle adjustment plays a vital role in feature-based monocular SLAM. In many modern SLAM pipelines, bundle adjustment is performed to estimate the 6DOF camera trajectory and 3D map (3D point cloud) from the input feature tracks. However, two fundamental weaknesses plague SLAM systems based on bundle adjustment. First, the need to carefully initialise bundle adjustment means that all variables, in particular the map, must be estimated as accurately as possible and maintained over time, which makes the overall algorithm cumbersome. Second, since estimating the 3D structure (which requires sufficient baseline) is inherent in bundle adjustment, the SLAM algorithm will encounter difficulties during periods of slow motion or pure rotational motion. We propose a different SLAM optimisation core: instead of bundle adjustment, we conduct rotation averaging to incrementally optimise only camera orientations. Given the orientations, we estimate the camera positions and 3D points via a quasi-convex formulation that can be solved efficiently and globally optimally. Our approach not only obviates the need to estimate and maintain the positions and 3D map at keyframe rate (which enables simpler SLAM systems), it is also more capable of handling slow motions or pure rotational motions.

Title: Illumination Robust Monocular Direct Visual Odometry for Outdoor Environment Mapping
Key Words: distance measurement  image colour analysis  lighting  mobile robots  motion estimation  robot vision  SLAM (robots)  stereo image processing  illumination-robust direct monocular SLAM system  global lighting changes  local lighting changes  stereo SLAM systems  camera motion  scene structure  high-precision motion estimation  illumination robust monocular direct visual odometry  outdoor environment  illumination invariant photometric costs  vision-based localization and mapping  RGB-D  DSO system  ORBSLAM2 system  Lighting  Optimization  Robustness  Simultaneous localization and mapping  Cameras  Motion estimation  Three-dimensional displays 
Abstract: Vision-based localization and mapping in outdoor environments is still a challenging issue, which requests significant robustness against various unpredictable illumination changes. In this paper, an illumination-robust direct monocular SLAM system that focuses on modeling outdoor scenery is presented. To deal with global and local lighting changes, such as solar flares, the state-of-art illumination invariant photometric costs for RGB-D and stereo SLAM systems are revisited in the context of their monocular counterpart, where the camera motion and scene structure are jointly optimized with a reasonably poor initialization. Based on our analysis, a combined cost is proposed to achieve a high-precision motion estimation with an improved convergence radius. The proposed system is extensively evaluated on the synthetic and real-world datasets regarding accuracy, robustness, and processing time, where our approach outperforms systems with other costs and state-of-art DSO and ORBSLAM2 systems.

Title: A Comparison of CNN-Based and Hand-Crafted Keypoint Descriptors
Key Words: convolutional neural nets  image matching  neurocontrollers  robot vision  SLAM (robots)  pre-trained CNN descriptors  viewpoint changes  illumination changes  hand-crafted keypoint descriptors  keypoint matching  computer vision  keypoint description  trained convolutional neural networks  pre-trained CNNs  hand-crafted descriptors  visual simultaneous localization and mapping  CNN-based descriptors  SLAM  Lighting  Computational modeling  Detectors  Dogs  Simultaneous localization and mapping  Measurement 
Abstract: Keypoint matching is an important operation in computer vision and its applications such as visual simultaneous localization and mapping (SLAM) in robotics. This matching operation heavily depends on the descriptors of the keypoints, and it must be performed reliably when images undergo condition changes such as those in illumination and viewpoint. Previous research in keypoint description has pursued three classes of descriptors: hand-crafted, those from trained convolutional neural networks (CNN), and those from pre-trained CNNs. This paper provides a comparative study of the three classes of keypoint descriptors, in terms of their ability to handle conditional changes. The study is conducted on the latest benchmark datasets in computer vision with challenging conditional changes. Our study finds that (a) in general CNN-based descriptors outperform hand-crafted descriptors, (b) the trained CNN descriptors perform better than pre-trained CNN descriptors with respect to viewpoint changes, and (c) pre-trained CNN descriptors perform better than trained CNN descriptors with respect to illumination changes. These findings can serve as a basis for selecting appropriate keypoint descriptors for various applications.

Title: Environment Driven Underwater Camera-IMU Calibration for Monocular Visual-Inertial SLAM
Key Words: autonomous underwater vehicles  calibration  cameras  inertial navigation  mobile robots  SLAM (robots)  visual-inertial SLAM  shallow water  calibration errors  environmental indexes  underwater camera-inertial measurement unit  simultaneous localization and mapping  intrinsic parameters  extrinsic parameters  underwater monocular vision systems  environment driven underwater camera-IMU calibration  Cameras  Calibration  Atmospheric modeling  Simultaneous localization and mapping  Geometry  Mathematical model 
Abstract: Most state-of-the-art underwater vision systems are calibrated manually in shallow water and used in open seas without changing. However, the refractivity of the water is adaptively changed depending on the salinity, temperature, depth or other underwater environmental indexes, which inevitably generate the calibration errors and induces incorrectness e.g., for underwater Simultaneously Localization and Mapping (SLAM). To address this issue, in this paper, we propose a new underwater Camera-Inertial Measurement Unit (IMU) calibration model, which just needs to be calibrated once in the air, and then both the intrinsic parameters and extrinsic parameters between the camera and IMU could be automatically calculated depending on the environment indexes. To our best knowledge, this is the first work to consider the underwater Camera-IMU calibration via environmental indexes. We also build a verification platform to validate the effectiveness of our proposed method on real experiments, and use it for underwater monocular Visual-Inertial SLAM.

Title: Leveraging Structural Regularity of Atlanta World for Monocular SLAM
Key Words: Kalman filters  maximum likelihood estimation  polynomials  SLAM (robots)  multiple local Atlanta frames  global Atlanta frames  world frame  structural regularity  monocular SLAM  common vertical axis  multiple horizontal axes  camera frame  Simultaneous localization and mapping  Three-dimensional displays  Cameras  Estimation  Optimization  Reliability 
Abstract: A wide range of man-made environments can be abstracted as the Atlanta world. It consists of a set of Atlanta frames with a common vertical (gravitational) axis and multiple horizontal axes orthogonal to this vertical axis. This paper focuses on leveraging the regularity of Atlanta world for monocular SLAM. First, we robustly cluster image lines. Based on these clusters, we compute the local Atlanta frames in the camera frame by solving polynomial equations. Our method provides the global optimum and satisfies inherent geometric constraints. Second, we define the posterior probabilities to refine the initial clusters and Atlanta frames alternately by the maximum a posteriori estimation. Third, based on multiple local Atlanta frames, we compute the global Atlanta frames in the world frame using Kalman filtering. We optimize rotations by the global alignment and then refine translations and 3D line-based map under the directional constraints. Experiments on both synthesized and real data have demonstrated that our approach outperforms state-of-the-art methods.

Title: Multimodal Semantic SLAM with Probabilistic Data Association
Key Words: image fusion  image representation  inference mechanisms  mobile robots  object detection  path planning  probability  robot vision  SLAM (robots)  nonGaussian sensor model  multimodal semantic SLAM  probabilistic data association  robot navigation  semantic SLAM problem  discrete inference problem  object class labels  measurement-landmark correspondences  continuous inference problem  robot poses  object detection systems  simultaneous localization and mapping  object-based representations  object locations  nonGaussian inference problem  Simultaneous localization and mapping  Semantics  Belief propagation  Maximum likelihood estimation  Maximum likelihood detection 
Abstract: The recent success of object detection systems motivates object-based representations for robot navigation; i.e. semantic simultaneous localization and mapping (SLAM). The semantic SLAM problem can be decomposed into a discrete inference problem: determining object class labels and measurement-landmark correspondences (the data association problem), and a continuous inference problem: obtaining the set of robot poses and object locations in the environment. A solution to the semantic SLAM problem necessarily addresses this joint inference, but under ambiguous data associations this is in general a non-Gaussian inference problem, while the majority of previous work focuses on Gaussian inference. Previous solutions to data association either produce solutions between potential hypotheses or maintain multiple explicit hypotheses for each association. We propose a solution that represents hypotheses as multiple modes of an equivalent non-Gaussian sensor model. We then solve the resulting non-Gaussian inference problem using nonparametric belief propagation. We validate our approach in a simulated hallway environment under a variety of sensor noise characteristics, as well as using real data from the KITTI dataset, demonstrating improved robustness to perceptual aliasing and odometry uncertainty.

Title: Improving Incremental Planning Performance through Overlapping Replanning and Execution
Key Words: path planning  robots  trajectory control  integrated motion planning  Chekov  trajectory optimization problems  roadmap seed trajectories  motion planning algorithms  control information  incremental planning  Planning  Dynamics  Mobile robots  Trajectory optimization  Collision avoidance 
Abstract: Deployment of motion planning algorithms in practical applications has lagged due to their slow speed in reacting to disturbances. We believe that the best way to address this is to reuse learned planning and control information across queries. In previous work, we introduced Chekov, a reactive, integrated motion planning and execution system that reuses learned information in the form of an enhanced roadmap. We have previously shown how we can use Chekov to formulate trajectory optimization problems that result in superior performance in static environments. In this work, we show how incremental planning can be incorporated into the formulation of optimized trajectories from roadmap seed trajectories. Further, we show how an incremental planner can be adapted to reduce the overhead incurred for replanning when trajectories become invalid during execution.

Title: Multimodal Policy Search using Overlapping Mixtures of Sparse Gaussian Process Prior
Key Words: Bayes methods  Gaussian processes  inference mechanisms  learning (artificial intelligence)  mobile robots  search problems  OMSGPs  optimal policies  reinforcement learning  multimodal policy search algorithm  overlapping mixtures of sparse Gaussian process  Bayesian inference  object grasping  table-sweep tasks  Task analysis  Grasping  Kernel  Gaussian processes  Robots  Inference algorithms  Prediction algorithms 
Abstract: In this paper, we present a novel policy search reinforcement learning algorithm that can deal with multimodality in control policies based on Gaussian processes. Our approach employs Overlapping Mixtures of Gaussian Processes (OMGPs) for a control policy, in which all the GPs in the mixture are global and overlapped in the input space. We first extend the OMGPs by combing sparse pseudo-input GPs as OMSGPs to reduce its computational cost of learning and prediction suitable for policy search. Then, we derive a novel multimodal policy search algorithm based on variational Bayesian inference by placing the OMSGPs as the prior of the multimodal control policy. To validate the effectiveness of our algorithm, we applied it to two typical robotic tasks in simulation: 1) object grasping and 2) table-sweep tasks since they both require the multimodality in the optimal policies. Simulation results demonstrate that our algorithm can efficiently learn multimodal policies even with high dimensional observations.

Title: Online adaptation of uncertain models using neural network priors and partially observable planning
Key Words: Markov processes  mobile robots  neural nets  planning (artificial intelligence)  uncertain systems  online adaptation  uncertain models  neural network priors  partially observable planning  manipulation tasks  encode prior experiences  physics engine  online POMDP solver  observed environments  prediction model  domain complexity  Adaptation models  Task analysis  Physics  Planning  Robots  Engines  Neural networks 
Abstract: One of the key challenges in realizing a robot that is capable of completing a variety of manipulation tasks in the real world is the need to utilize sufficiently compact and rich world models. If the assumed prediction model does not match real observations, planning systems are unable to perform properly. We propose a system that corrects the models based on information collected from the robot's sensors. We encode prior experiences in a neural network to generate possible parameters of the models for a physics engine from real observations. An online POMDP solver is used to plan actions to complete the task while progressively validating and improving the models. We perform experiments in simulations and on a real robot. The results show that this approach appropriately clarifies observed environments, can handle dynamics with discontinuities, and with increasing domain complexity achieves a better success rate than baseline methods.

Title: Contact-Implicit Trajectory Optimization Based on a Variable Smooth Contact Model and Successive Convexification
Key Words: gradient methods  linear quadratic control  manipulators  mobile robots  optimisation  trajectory control  CITO  variable smooth contact model  VSCM  successive convexification  gradient-based optimization  nonprehensile manipulation tasks  iterative linear quadratic regulator  physically-consistent motions  SCvx-based method  iLQR-based method  contact-implicit trajectory optimization method  robot platform  Robots  Convergence  Trajectory optimization  Task analysis  Heuristic algorithms 
Abstract: In this paper, we propose a contact-implicit trajectory optimization (CITO) method based on a variable smooth contact model (VSCM) and successive convexification (SCvx). The VSCM facilitates the convergence of gradient-based optimization without compromising physical fidelity. On the other hand, the proposed SCvx-based approach combines the advantages of direct and shooting methods for CITO. For evaluations, we consider non-prehensile manipulation tasks. The proposed method is compared to a version based on iterative linear quadratic regulator (iLQR) on a planar example. The results demonstrate that both methods can find physically-consistent motions that complete the tasks without a meaningful initial guess owing to the VSCM. The proposed SCvx-based method outperforms the iLQR-based method in terms of convergence, computation time, and the quality of motions found. Finally, the proposed SCvx-based method is tested on a standard robot platform and shown to perform efficiently for a real-world application.

Title: Energy Gradient-Based Graphs for Planning Within-Hand Caging Manipulation
Key Words: dexterous manipulators  gradient methods  graph theory  grippers  mobile robots  path planning  hand-object configurations  Yale T42 hand  stored energy profile  energy gradient-based graph  energy map  low energy states  actuation input  underactuated hands  caging grasps  within-hand caging manipulation  Actuators  Computational modeling  Grippers  Force  Planning  Energy states  Trajectory 
Abstract: In this work, we present a within-hand manipulation approach that leverages a simple energy model based on caging grasps made by underactuated hands. Instead of explicitly modeling the contacts and dynamics in manipulation, we can calculate a map to describe the energy states of different hand-object configurations under an actuation input. Since the system intrinsically steers towards low energy states, the object's movement is uniquely described by the gradient of the energy map if the corresponding actuation is applied. Such maps are pre-calculated for a range of actuation inputs to represent the system's energy profile. We discretize the workspace into a grid and construct an energy gradient-based graph by locally exploring the gradients of the stored energy profile. Given a goal configuration of a simple cylindrical object, a sequence of actuation inputs can be calculated to manipulate it towards the goal by exploiting the connectivity in the graph. The proposed approach is experimentally implemented on a Yale T42 hand. Our evaluation results show that parts of the graph are well connected, explaining our ability to successfully plan and execute trajectories within the gripper's workspace.

Title: A new robot skating on water surface intimating water striders based on flexible driving mechanism*
Key Words: cantilevers  elasticity  hydrodynamics  legged locomotion  motion control  robot dynamics  water surface  flexible driven robot prototype  water strider robot  flexible driving legs  flexible driving robot  biological water striders  robot skating  flexible materials  ellipse-like spatial trajectories  pin-linkage mechanism  microelement cantilever method  similarity analysis  hydrodynamic characteristic constants  Legged locomotion  Strain  Force  Surface treatment  Trajectory  Ganglia 
Abstract: The amazing ability of water striders on water surface has attracted many scholars. Especially the flexible driving mechanism enable the driving legs conform to the deformation of the water surface, which effectively improving water striders' floating ability and stability. However, the current research on water striders has never designed a flexible driven robot prototype like water striders. This paper proposes a new water strider robot that can walk on water surface based on flexible driving mechanism. The robot's driving legs are designed with flexible materials and possess ellipse-like spatial trajectories like water striders through a limit pin-linkage mechanism. Based on microelement cantilever method, the flexible driving effect was analyzed with different elastic modulus and diameter. It shows that the flexible legs can row at a higher frequency before puncturing the water surface and achieve bigger work in one period compared with the rigid one. At last, the skating experiment of the robot under different stiffness and rowing frequency was carried out. The results verified that the limit frequency of the flexible driving legs and maximum moving speed of the robot are about 41.3% and 36.2% higher than those with rigid legs, respectively. Moreover, a similarity analysis of hydrodynamic characteristic constants reveals that the locomotion of the flexible driving robot is more analogous to the biological water striders than the rigid one.

Title: Performance Metrics for a Robotic Actuation System using Static and Mobile Electromagnets
Key Words: electromagnetic actuators  medical robotics  microrobots  surgery  telerobotics  robotic EMA platform  ophthalmic MIS  magnetic force  dexterity indexes  performance metrics  robotic actuation system  wireless magnetic microrobots  small-scale minimally invasive surgery  electromagnetic actuation system  reliable medical applications  Magnetic resonance imaging  Electromagnets  Robots  Micromagnetics  Electromagnetics  Coils  Torque 
Abstract: Wireless magnetic microrobots can perform complex tasks for small-scale minimally invasive surgery (MIS) that requires high precision and dexterity. The choice of the configuration of the electromagnetic actuation (EMA) system is a key issue for reliable medical applications. This paper addresses the study of a robotic EMA platform firstly devoted to ophthalmic MIS, aiming at improving the manipulability and dexterity of the procedure. To this end, a robotic EMA system comprising four static and four mobile electromagnets is investigated. Evaluation of the magnetic force and torque, the manipulability and the dexterity indexes of EMA platforms are studied. The results demonstrate that a robotic EMA platform increases the versatility of the EMA system, and becomes resourceful to perform various tasks.

Title: Yaw Torque Authority for a Flapping-Wing Micro-Aerial Vehicle
Key Words: aerodynamics  aerospace components  aircraft control  control nonlinearities  microrobots  mobile robots  piezoelectric actuators  torque  reliable torque  controllable yaw torque  yaw torque authority  flapping-wing microaerial vehicle  high-frequency wing  reliable yaw control authority  split-cycle flapping  flapping frequency  flapping signal  Torque  Actuators  Harmonic analysis  Force  Power harmonic filters  Shape  Resonant frequency 
Abstract: Flapping-wing micro-aerial vehicles rely on subtle changes in the kinematics of high-frequency wing flapping to produce roll, pitch, and yaw torques. To generate yaw torque, the Harvard RoboBee changes the ratio of upstroke to downstroke speed (“split-cycling”) by applying a second harmonic to the fundamental flapping signal for each wing. However, since flapping typically occurs near resonance (for efficiency), these higher harmonics are filtered out by the transmission and actuator dynamics. Therefore, reliable yaw control authority has proven elusive. We propose a method to generate yaw torque sufficient for in-flight control by using split-cycle flapping in an “iso-lift” regime, to mitigate resonant filtering by decreasing the flapping frequency and increasing the drive voltage, which produces lift identical to typical flight conditions. We model the expected torque at iso-lift conditions and apply this method to the physical RoboBee, achieving reliable, controllable yaw torque. Finally, we demonstrate yaw control with a simple heading controller, achieving a step response with a time constant an order of magnitude faster than previous attempts.

Title: Data-efficient Learning of Morphology and Controller for a Microrobot
Key Words: Bayes methods  control engineering computing  learning (artificial intelligence)  legged locomotion  microrobots  optimisation  data-efficient learning  robot design  HPC-BBO  hierarchical Bayesian optimization process  morphology configurations  controller learning process  hardware validation  hardware configurations design  6-legged microrobot  Morphology  Optimization  Robots  Bayes methods  Hardware  Process control  Task analysis 
Abstract: Robot design is often a slow and difficult process requiring the iterative construction and testing of prototypes, with the goal of sequentially optimizing the design. For most robots, this process is further complicated by the need, when validating the capabilities of the hardware to solve the desired task, to already have an appropriate controller, which is in turn designed and tuned for the specific hardware. In this paper, we propose a novel approach, HPC-BBO, to efficiently and automatically design hardware configurations, and evaluate them by also automatically tuning the corresponding controller. HPC-BBO is based on a hierarchical Bayesian optimization process which iteratively optimizes morphology configurations (based on the performance of the previous designs during the controller learning process) and subsequently learns the corresponding controllers (exploiting the knowledge collected from optimizing for previous morphologies). Moreover, HPC-BBO can select a “batch” of multiple morphology designs at once, thus parallelizing hardware validation and reducing the number of time-consuming production cycles. We validate HPC-BBO on the design of the morphology and controller for a simulated 6-legged microrobot. Experimental results show that HPC-BBO outperforms multiple competitive baselines, and yields a 360% reduction in production cycles over standard Bayesian optimization, thus reducing the hypothetical manufacturing time of our microrobot from 21 to 4 months.

Title: Retrieval of magnetic medical microrobots from the bloodstream
Key Words: catheters  magnetic particles  medical robotics  microrobots  patient treatment  magnetoresponsive agents  capture efficiency  magnetic particles  human body  untethered magnetic microrobots  magnetic medical microrobots  body compartments  retrieval catheter  magnetic cores  retrieval tools  magnetic capture model  bloodstream  clinical translation  body fluids  magnetic microrobots retrieval  magnetoresponsive microrobots  Magnetic separation  Magnetic confinement  Saturation magnetization  Catheters  Magnetic cores  Micromagnetics 
Abstract: Untethered magnetic microrobots hold the potential to penetrate hard-to-reach areas of the human body and to perform therapy in a controlled way. In the past decade, impressive advancements have been made in this field but the clinical adoption of magnetoresponsive microrobots is still hampered by safety issues. A tool appointed for magnetic microrobots retrieval within body fluids could enable a real paradigm change, fostering their clinical translation.By starting from the general problem to retrieve magnetic microrobots injected into the bloodstream, the authors introduce a magnetic capture model that allows to design retrieval tools for magnetic cores of different diameters (down to 10 nm) and in different environmental conditions (fluid speed up to 7 cms-1). The model robustness is demonstrated by the design and testing of a retrieval catheter. In its optimal configuration, the catheter includes 27 magnets and fits a 12 F catheter. The model provides a good prediction of capture efficiency for 250 nm magnetic particles (experimental data: 77.6%, model prediction: 65%) and a very good prediction for 500 nm particles (experimental data: 93.6%, model prediction: 94%). The results support the proposed model-based design approach, which can be extended to retrieve other magnetoresponsive agents from body compartments.

Title: Experiments with Human-inspired Behaviors in a Humanoid Robot: Quasi-static Balancing using Toe-off Motion and Stretched Knees
Key Words: gait analysis  humanoid robots  legged locomotion  human-inspired behaviors  toe-off motion  stretched knees  locomotion patterns  flat foot-ground contact  human gait  physiological mechanisms  TORO DLR humanoid robot  quasistatic whole-body balancing  kinematic capabilities  quasistatic whole-body balancing controller  Task analysis  Knee  Humanoid robots  Legged locomotion  Null space  End effectors 
Abstract: Humanoid robots typically display locomotion patterns that include walking with flat foot-ground contact, and knees slightly bent. However, analysis of human gait indicate that several physiological mechanisms like stretched knees, heel-strike and toe push-off increase the step length and energetic efficiency of locomotion. This paper presents an implementation of two of those mechanisms, namely stretched knees and push-off, on a quasi-static whole-body balancing controller. The influence of such mechanisms on the kinematic capabilities of the DLR humanoid robot TORO is analyzed in different experiments, and their benefits are thoroughly discussed. As a result, the energetic savings of balancing with stretched knees are shown to be of reduced magnitude with respect to the overall power consumption of the robot, and the ability of TORO for negotiating stairs is greatly enhanced.

Title: Prediction Maps for Real-Time 3D Footstep Planning in Dynamic Environments
Key Words: collision avoidance  humanoid robots  mobile robots  robot vision  humanoids  smaller wheeled robots  planar regions  simple 2D occupancy map  environment representation  height information  prediction maps  real-time 3D footstep planning  mobile robots  dynamic obstacle detection  time 10.0 ms  Three-dimensional displays  Tracking  Real-time systems  Mobile robots  Task analysis  Humanoid robots 
Abstract: Perception of the local environment is a precondition for mobile robots to navigate safely in dynamic environments. Most robots, i.e., humanoids and smaller wheeled robots rely on planar regions. For humanoids, a simple 2D occupancy map as environment representation on which a path is planned is hereby not sufficient since they can step over and onto objects and therefore need height information. Considering dynamic obstacles introduces another level of complexity, since they can lead to necessary replanning or collisions at later stages. In this paper, we present a framework that first extracts planar regions in height maps and detects dynamic obstacles. Our system then uses this information to create a set of prediction maps, in which paths can be efficiently planned in real time at low CPU cost. We show in simulation and real-world experiments that our framework keeps run times well under 10ms for one computation cycle and allows for foresighted real-time 3D footstep planning.

Title: See and Be Seen – Rapid and Likeable High-Definition Camera-Eye for Anthropomorphic Robots
Key Words: cameras  eye  humanoid robots  human-robot interaction  interactive systems  mobile robots  robot vision  integrated high resolution camera  robot eye  human eye movements  high-definition camera-eye  anthropomorphic robots  social robots  robotic faces  anthropomorphic face  anthropomorphic robot head Floka  Cameras  Robot vision systems  Eyelids  Prototypes  Acceleration  Humanoid robots 
Abstract: While many social robots already include carefully designed robotic faces, functional robot eyes that meet human expectations are still an open challenge. As a consequence, many robots either have cameras separated from their robot eyes or active camera heads missing an anthropomorphic face. In this paper, we propose a new robot eye that is integrated in the anthropomorphic robot head Floka and fulfills a similar technical specification as a human eye including zero backlash, an increased range of motion, high velocities and accelerations, an integrated high resolution camera, and fast actuated eyelids. The robot eye is built using state-of-the-art off-the-shelf components and the CAD model of our prototype is available free of charge on request for non-commercial applications. We evaluate the technical properties of the robot eye and show that it meets and partially outperforms human eye movements and saccades.

Title: Generalized Orientation Learning in Robot Task Space
Key Words: control engineering computing  end effectors  humanoid robots  learning (artificial intelligence)  manipulator dynamics  mobile robots  motion control  position control  generalized orientation learning  robot task space  imitation learning  human skills  joint space  end-effector orientation  arbitrary desired points  adapting learned orientation skills  angular velocity  learning Cartesian positions suffices  learning multiple orientation trajectories  kernelized treatment  dynamic movement primitives  Quaternions  Trajectory  Probabilistic logic  Task analysis  Robots  Angular velocity  Transforms 
Abstract: In the context of imitation learning, several approaches have been developed so as to transfer human skills to robots, with demonstrations often represented in Cartesian or joint space. While learning Cartesian positions suffices for many applications, the end-effector orientation is required in many others. However, several crucial issues arising from learning orientations have not been adequately addressed yet. For instance, how can demonstrated orientations be adapted to pass through arbitrary desired points that comprise orientations and angular velocities? In this paper, we propose an approach that is capable of learning multiple orientation trajectories and adapting learned orientation skills to new situations (e.g., via-point and end-point), where both orientation and angular velocity are addressed. Specifically, we introduce a kernelized treatment to alleviate explicit basis functions when learning orientations. Several examples including comparison with the state-of-the-art dynamic movement primitives are provided to verify the effectiveness of our method.

Title: ATLAS FaST: Fast and Simple Scheduled TDOA for Reliable Ultra-Wideband Localization
Key Words: direction-of-arrival estimation  mobile robots  operating systems (computers)  public domain software  time-of-arrival estimation  ATLAS FaST  fast scheduled TDOA  simple scheduled TDOA  ultra-wideband localization  wireless localization  aerial robot control  high precision personal safety tracking  required localization systems  multiuser scalability  energy efficiency  real-time capabilities  real-time localization  robot operating system  open source access  precise robotic location estimation  scheduled time-difference of arrival channel access  Synchronization  Clocks  Mobile nodes  Reliability  Wireless communication  Batteries 
Abstract: The ever increasing need for precise location estimation in robotics is challenging a significant amount of research. Hence, new applications such as wireless localization based aerial robot control or high precision personal safety tracking are developed. However, most of the current developments and research solely focus on the accuracy of the required localization systems. Multi-user scalability, energy efficiency and real-time capabilities are often neglected. This work aims to overcome the technology barrier by providing scalable, high accuracy, real-time localization through energy-efficient, scheduled time-difference of arrival channel access. We could show that simultaneous processing and provisioning of more than a thousand localization results per second with high reliability is possible using the proposed approach. To enable wide-spread adoption, we provide an open source implementation of our system for the robot operating system (ROS). Furthermore, we provide open source access to the raw data created during our evaluation.

Title: HD Map Change Detection with a Boosted Particle Filter
Key Words: image classification  learning (artificial intelligence)  object detection  particle filtering (numerical methods)  probability  road vehicles  traffic engineering computing  automated driving  landmark readings  probability distribution  HD map change detection  boosted particle filter  change detection algorithm  backend-based stream processing pipeline  floating car data  series-production vehicles  automotive high definition digital map  crowd-based approach  Roads  Global navigation satellite system  Measurement  Visualization  Automobiles  Robot sensing systems  Feature extraction 
Abstract: In this paper, we present a change detection algorithm that can run in real time as part of a backend-based stream processing pipeline. It can process the floating car data collected by series-production vehicles to detect changes in an automotive high definition digital (HD) map used for automated driving. The algorithm uses a particle filter approach with odometry, GNSS and landmark readings to localize the vehicle within the digital map. While all particles together represent the probability distribution for the vehicle's position at a given time, each individual particle also serves as a hypothesis about the vehicle's position. This is used to compute various metrics for how well the current sensor readings match the world model encoded in the HD map. The different metrics are evaluated by a number of weak classifiers that are used as input for a trained Adaboost classifier. The achievable detection rate of a single vehicle is then compared to that of a simple crowd-based approach, where each vehicle votes on whether or not the current section of the road has changed.

Title: Non-parametric Error Modeling for Ultra-wideband Localization Networks
Key Words: optimisation  probability  ultra wideband antennas  wireless sensor networks  antenna delays  line-of-sight conditions  nonline-of-sight conditions  nonparametric error modeling  ultra-wideband localization networks  nonparametric estimation  measurement probability densities  explicit modeling  multimodal errors  linear estimation methods  size 3.0 cm  size 30.0 cm  Antenna measurements  Delays  Probability density function  Antennas  Optimization  Density measurement  Hardware 
Abstract: We propose an ultra-wideband-based (UWB) localization system that achieves high accuracy through nonparametric estimation of measurement probability densities and explicit modeling of antenna delays. This problem is difficult because non-line-of-sight conditions give rise to multimodal errors, which make linear estimation methods ineffective. The primary contribution in this paper is an approach for both characterizing these errors in situ and an optimization framework that recovers both positions and antenna delays. We evaluate our system with a network of 8 nodes based on the DecaWave DWM1000 and achieve accuracies from 3 cm RMSE in line-of-sight conditions to 30 cm RMSE in non-line-of-sight conditions. Collecting measurements and localizing the network in this manner requires less than a minute, after which the realized network may be used for dynamic real-time tracking.

Title: Self-Supervised Incremental Learning for Sound Source Localization in Complex Indoor Environment
Key Words: direction-of-arrival estimation  geometry  indoor environment  learning (artificial intelligence)  microphone arrays  mobile robots  geometry features  self-supervision process  ground truth label  pre-collected data  human supervisions  explicit GCC-PHAT features  supervised incremental learning  sound source localization  complex indoor environment  incremental learning framework  mobile robots  human sound source  microphone array  multiple rooms  training data  prediction model  incremental learning scheme  implicit acoustic features  training samples  direction-of-arrival estimation  Feature extraction  Robots  Acoustics  Predictive models  Indoor environment  Microphones  Data models 
Abstract: This paper presents an incremental learning framework for mobile robots localizing the human sound source using a microphone array in a complex indoor environment consisting of multiple rooms. In contrast to conventional approaches that leverage direction-of-arrival (DOA) estimation, the framework allows a robot to accumulate training data and improve the performance of the prediction model over time using an incremental learning scheme. Specifically, we use implicit acoustic features obtained from an auto-encoder together with the geometry features from the map for training. A self-supervision process is developed such that the model ranks the priority of rooms to explore and assigns the ground truth label to the collected data, updating the learned model on-the-fly. The framework does not require pre-collected data and can be directly applied to real-world scenarios without any human supervisions or interventions. In experiments, we demonstrate that the prediction accuracy reaches 67% using about 20 training samples and eventually achieves 90% accuracy within 120 samples, surpassing prior classification-based methods with explicit GCC-PHAT features.

Title: Automated Models of Human Everyday Activity based on Game and Virtual Reality Technology
Key Words: computer games  knowledge acquisition  virtual reality  virtual reality technology  human everyday manipulation activity  virtual human living  working environments  recorded activity data  knowledge acquisition  human manipulation activities  AMEvA  automated models of everyday activities  knowledge interpretation  knowledge processing system  KNOWROB  Solid modeling  Task analysis  Robots  Force  Games  Virtual reality 
Abstract: In this paper, we will describe AMEvA (Automated Models of Everyday Activities), a special-purpose knowledge acquisition, interpretation, and processing system for human everyday manipulation activity that can automatically: (1) create and simulate virtual human living and working environments (such as kitchens and apartments) with a scope, extent, level of detail, physics, and close to photorealism that facilitates and promotes the natural and realistic execution of human everyday manipulation activities; (2) record human manipulation activities performed in the respective virtual reality environment as well as their effects on the environment and detect force-dynamic states and events; (3) decompose and segment the recorded activity data into meaningful motions and categorize the motions according to action models used in cognitive science; and (4) represent the interpreted activities symbolically in KNOWROB [1] using a first-order time interval logic representation.

Title: Development of a strain gauge based disturbance estimation and compensation technique for a wheeled inverted pendulum robot
Key Words: compensation  force control  mobile robots  motion control  nonlinear control systems  pendulums  position control  robot dynamics  service robots  strain gauges  wheels  strain gauge based disturbance estimation  compensation technique  wheeled inverted pendulum robot  I-PENTAR  strain gauge based sensor  purely estimation based control  inverted pendulum type assistant robot  Wheels  Robot sensing systems  Strain measurement  Task analysis  Mobile robots  Axles 
Abstract: The ongoing development of the Inverted PENdulum Type Assistant Robot (I-PENTAR) is being undertaken by the authors. The I-PENTAR has many tasks like lifting objects with unknown mass, pushing and pulling a carts and many more. During execution of these tasks unknown disturbances enter the system and cause dynamic responses and errors. Most notably, the wheels of the robot move with excessively transients. To alleviate this problem, a strain gauge based sensor is attached to the existing structure of the robot to gain information regarding the disturbances. This allows minimal change to the system design while improving robustness to disturbances. In this paper the development of the sensor, the corresponding model and a method of updating the existing purely estimation based control is presented together with tests.

Title: Spatio-temporal representation for long-term anticipation of human presence in service robotics
Key Words: mobile robots  path planning  service robots  spatiotemporal phenomena  spatio-temporal representation  long-term anticipation  service robotics  mobile autonomous robots  human populated environments  wrapped dimensions  periodicities  2D spatial model  multidimensional representation  memory efficient spatio-temporal model  long-term predictions  mobile robots  periodic temporal patterns  Hidden Markov models  Predictive models  Market research  Mobile robots  Spectral analysis  Time series analysis 
Abstract: We propose an efficient spatio-temporal model for mobile autonomous robots operating in human populated environments. Our method aims to model periodic temporal patterns of people presence, which are based on peoples' routines and habits. The core idea is to project the time onto a set of wrapped dimensions that represent the periodicities of people presence. Extending a 2D spatial model with this multidimensional representation of time results in a memory efficient spatio-temporal model. This model is capable of long-term predictions of human presence, allowing mobile robots to schedule their services better and to plan their paths. The experimental evaluation, performed over datasets gathered by a robot over a period of several weeks, indicates that the proposed method achieves more accurate predictions than the previous state of the art used in robotics.

Title: Object Transfer Point Estimation for Fluent Human-Robot Handovers
Key Words: estimation theory  humanoid robots  human-robot interaction  mobile robots  motion control  position control  robot vision  human-robot interaction  collaboration tasks  offline OTP  human preferences  dynamic OTP  OTP predictor  humanoid nursing robot  handover motion  reach-to-grasp response time  natural human receiver  human-robot handovers  human-robot motion  object transfer point estimation  robot visible workspace  user-adaptive reference frame  time 3.1 s  Handover  Receivers  Robot kinematics  Estimation  Dynamics 
Abstract: Handing over objects is the foundation of many human-robot interaction and collaboration tasks. In the scenario where a human is handing over an object to a robot, the human chooses where the object needs to be transferred. The robot needs to accurately predict this point of transfer to reach out proactively, instead of waiting for the final position to be presented. This work presents an efficient method for predicting the Object Transfer Point (OTP), which synthesizes (1) an offline OTP calculated based on human preferences observed in a human-robot motion study with (2) a dynamic OTP predicted based on the observed human motion. Our proposed OTP predictor is implemented on a humanoid nursing robot and experimentally validated in human-robot handover tasks. Compared to only using static or dynamic OTP estimators, it has better accuracy at the earlier phase of handover (up to 45% of the handover motion) and can render fluent handovers with a reach-to-grasp response time (about 3.1 secs) close to natural human receiver's response. In addition, the OTP prediction accuracy is maintained across the robot's visible workspace by utilizing a user-adaptive reference frame.

Title: Controlling AeroBot: Development of a Motion Planner for an Actively Articulated Wheeled Humanoid Robot
Key Words: controllability  humanoid robots  legged locomotion  motion control  path planning  position control  quadratic programming  robot kinematics  stability  velocity control  wheels  robot morphologies  legged robots  humanlike form factor  wheeled systems  controllability  motion planner  actively articulated wheeled humanoid robot  gap crossing  dynamically stable motion  robots kinematics  sequential quadratic program algorithm  postural configuration adjustment requirements  velocity control  drive wheels  terrain adaptability  energy consumption  aerobot robot  step climbing  nonlinear constraints  stability  zero moment point  Trajectory  Robot kinematics  Kinematics  Stability analysis  Legged locomotion 
Abstract: There is value in exploring new robot morphologies that combine the benefits of legged robots (i.e. high terrain adaptability, humanlike form factor) with those of wheeled systems (i.e. high stability, low energy consumption). Once the basic design concept has been demonstrated, there is a further requirement to validate the controllability of the system through adaptation and implementation of advanced control techniques. This research presents a motion planner that enables the Aerobot robot, an actively articulated wheeled humanoid robot capable of performing step climbing and gap crossing, to plan dynamically stable motion in response to a range of task conditions. Using a model of the robots kinematics, a motion planner is developed. The sequential quadratic program algorithm is used to solve quadratic objectives and non-linear constraints pertaining to stability and postural configuration adjustment requirements. The results showed good tracking of the robot's Zero Moment Point while transitioning between postural configurations and traversing obstacles. During these phase transitions, robustness in maintaining balance and position is also demonstrated via velocity control of the drive wheels.

Title: User Centric Device Registration for Streamlined Workflows in Surgical Navigation Systems
Key Words: computerised tomography  health care  image registration  medical image processing  medical robotics  surgery  surgery  health care  user centric device registration  registration gesture  preoperative registration  medical imaging modalities  device tracking  surgical navigation systems  Navigation  Robots  Tracking  Fixtures  Monitoring  Market research  Medical services 
Abstract: Alongside sweeping transformations in healthcare, a timeless drive to make surgical interventions less invasive and more effective has led to the integration of disparate technologies into surgical navigation systems. Fusions of device tracking and medical imaging modalities have been comprehensively investigated for opportunities to improve care. Such composite systems provide more and better information, enabling clinicians to operate less invasively and more effectively. Because of these merits, the preoperative ritual of harmonizing multiple information sources has been tacitly adopted. In this paper, we challenge the paradigm of preoperative registration. Proposed herein is a technique in which a clinician registers an interventional device to a navigation system simply by gesturing the device through a strategically designed fixture. In the background, the system continuously monitors the device path for this registration gesture. We demonstrate generality by applying the method to both robotic and electromagnetically tracked devices, and exhibit versatility by repeating the registration at multiple device base locations. Experiments indicate sub-millimeter accuracy versus conventional approaches on the same setup. Consequently, clinicians can register devices on the fly, increasing flexibility in setup and redefining workflow possibilities in surgery.

Title: Compliant four degree-of-freedom manipulator with locally deformable elastic elements for minimally invasive surgery
Key Words: bending  finite element analysis  manipulators  medical robotics  needles  optimisation  surgery  locally deformable elastic elements  minimally invasive surgery  MIS  surgical robots  robotic technology  compliant four degree-of-freedom manipulator  mechanical parts  robotic instruments  optimization method  FEA  prototype implementation  Springs  Instruments  Strain  Surgery  Manipulators  Medical robotics 
Abstract: Minimally Invasive Surgery (MIS) is one of the most successful applications of surgical robots. Although the introduction of robotic technology has brought a number of benefits, further advancements in MIS are limited by the size and bending radius of instruments. In this paper, we present a compliant four degree-of-freedom manipulator that consists of elastic elements with partly thinner structures. The proposed mechanism allows the elastic element to deform locally, thus minimizing its bending radius while the low number of mechanical parts greatly contributes to its compactness. This paper describes the design strategy, optimization method using FEA, prototype implementation, and evaluations. The evaluations reveal high accuracy and repeat accuracy, which are key elements for robotic instruments in MIS. Further, the prototype is able to exert sufficient force and it is possible to perform a simulated needle insertion task using the manipulator, demonstrating the feasibility of the proposed mechanism.

Title: Safe teleoperation of a laparoscope holder with dynamic precision but low stiffness.
Key Words: haptic interfaces  interactive devices  medical robotics  position control  surgery  telerobotics  three-term control  rigid laparoscope holders  high-gain PID position control  dynamic precision  undetected obstacles  stiff systems  compliant behaviour  unknown friction  compliant- scope holder  -precise laparo-scope holder  haptic interfaces  high backdrivability  intelligent PID position controller  low PID gains  satisfactory tracking precision  safe teleoperation  laparoscope holder  low stiffness  Minimally Invasive Surgery  MIS  visual feedback  human assistant  end-effector  robotic assistant  laparoscope displacements  master input interface  voice control  slave level  Laparoscopes  Friction  Surgery  Robots  Optimized production technology  Force  Kinematics 
Abstract: A laparoscope is a key element in Minimally Invasive Surgery (MIS) as it provides visual feedback to the surgeon. To overcome the drawbacks induced by its manual operation by a human assistant, it can be fixed on the end-effector of a robotic assistant teleoperated by the surgeon: laparoscope displacements are commanded through a master input interface (e.g., joysticks, voice control, etc.) and replicated accordingly at the slave level. In this approach, precision is of high importance to ensure a good operability by the surgeon. This is why the state-of-the-art relies on rigid laparoscope holders with high-gain PID position control, ensuring high static and dynamic precision. However, in the event of undetected obstacles, such stiff systems generate high forces that may cause harm to the patient. Rather, a compliant behaviour is desirable but it leads to a lack of precision when disturbances occur, such as the unknown friction between the trocar and the laparoscope. In this paper we present a “compliant-and-precise” laparo-scope holder with 4 active Degrees of Freedom (DoFs). Its design is based on cable transmission used for haptic interfaces, thus it exhibits very high backdrivability. The paper shows how an intelligent PID position controller can be used to compensate for unknown friction at the trocar while keeping very low PID gains and a satisfactory tracking precision.

Title: Real-time Teleoperation of Flexible Beveled-tip Needle Insertion using Haptic Force Feedback and 3D Ultrasound Guidance
Key Words: biological tissues  biomedical ultrasonics  force feedback  haptic interfaces  medical image processing  medical robotics  needles  phantoms  telemedicine  telerobotics  gelatin phantom  real-time teleoperation  3D ultrasound guidance  flexible beveled-tip needle  tip trajectory  user-controlled tasks  haptic force feedback  3D ultrasound probe  real-time visual feedback  haptic interface  needle tip  beveledtip flexible needle steering  teleoperation framework  control loop  robotic systems  needle insertion procedures  Needles  Task analysis  Haptic interfaces  Robots  Surgery  Trajectory  Three-dimensional displays 
Abstract: Needle insertion procedures can greatly benefit from robotic systems to improve their accuracy and success rate. However, a fully automated system is usually not desirable and the clinicians need to be included in the control loop. In this paper we present a teleoperation framework for beveledtip flexible needle steering that enables the user to directly and intuitively control the trajectory of the needle tip via a haptic interface. The 6 degrees of freedom of the needle base are used to perform several automatic safety and targeting tasks in addition to the one controlled by the user. Real-time visual feedback is provided by a 3D ultrasound probe and used to track the 3D location of the needle and of a spherical target. Several haptic force feedback are compared as well as two different levels of mix between automated and user-controlled tasks. A validation of the framework is conducted in gelatin phantom and a mean targeting accuracy of 2.5 mm is achieved. The results show that providing an adequate haptic guidance to the user can reduce the risks of damage to the tissues while still letting the surgeon in control of the tip trajectory.

Title: End-User Robot Programming Using Mixed Reality
Key Words: augmented reality  dexterous manipulators  helmet mounted displays  robot programming  MR-HMD interface  end-user robot programming  immersive 3D visualization  hand gestures  robot motions  robot arm  mixed reality head-mounted display  pick-and-place programs  Task analysis  Visualization  Two dimensional displays  Virtual reality  Programming  Robot sensing systems 
Abstract: Mixed Reality (MR) is a promising interface for robot programming because it can project an immersive 3D visualization of a robot's intended movement onto the real world. MR can also support hand gestures, which provide an intuitive way for users to construct and modify robot motions. We present a Mixed Reality Head-Mounted Display (MRHMD) interface that enables end-users to easily create and edit robot motions using waypoints. We describe a user study where 20 participants were asked to program a robot arm using 2D and MR interfaces to perform two pick-and-place tasks. In the primitive task, participants created typical pickand-place programs. In the adapted task, participants adapted their primitive programs to address a more complex pickand-place scenario, which included obstacles and conditional reasoning. Compared to the 2D interface, a higher number of users were able to complete both tasks in significantly less time, and reported experiencing lower cognitive workload, higher usability, and higher naturalness with the MR-HMD interface.

Title: Control of Delayed Bilateral Teleoperation System for Robotic Tele-Echography
Key Words: control system synthesis  delays  medical robotics  mobile robots  stability  telerobotics  robotic tele-echography  controllerfor bilateral robotic system  delayed communications  identical 6DOF robotic devices  Stewart-Gough mechanisms  controller design  teleoperation setup  slave devices  identical geometry  measurement arrays  independent IDOF settings  intuitively shape teleoperator performance  control method  Teleoperators  Stability analysis  Service robots  Internet  Real-time systems  Haptic interfaces 
Abstract: This paper describes development of a controllerfor bilateral robotic system for tele-echography with delayed communications. The system comprises two identical 6DOF robotic devices based on Stewart-Gough mechanisms, which were developed especially for the sake of the considered application. Controller design is facilitated by a symmetry of the teleoperation setup, in which the master and slave devices have identical geometry, actuation and measurement arrays. To further simplify the analysis, we treat coupling between degrees of freedom as exogenous disturbances and this allows us to split the control problem into six independent IDOF settings. The IDOF problems are addressed then using a novel approach to bilateral teleoperation control, based on a complete parameterization of feasible teleoperators. It allows to intuitively shape teleoperator performance while guaranteeing passivity and thus coupled stability of the system. The potential of the proposed control method is demonstrated with experimental results.

Title: A Unified Framework for the Teleoperation of Surgical Robots in Constrained Workspaces
Key Words: dexterous manipulators  force feedback  medical robotics  optimisation  surgery  telerobotics  constrained workspaces  robot geometry  slave-side constrained optimization algorithm  robotic systems  adult laparoscopy  infant surgery  surgical robots  robot-aided surgery  operating rooms  robotic tools  robot control techniques  pediatric surgery  microsurgery  nonredundant robots  teleoperation  dexterity  Robots  Surgery  Optimization  Jacobian matrices  Quaternions  Kinematics  Laparoscopes 
Abstract: In adult laparoscopy, robot-aided surgery is a reality in thousands of operating rooms worldwide, owing to the increased dexterity provided by the robotic tools. Many robots and robot control techniques have been developed to aid in more challenging scenarios, such as pediatric surgery and microsurgery. However, the prevalence of case-specific solutions, particularly those focused on non-redundant robots, reduces the reproducibility of the initial results in more challenging scenarios. In this paper, we propose a general framework for the control of surgical robotics in constrained workspaces under teleoperation, regardless of the robot geometry. Our technique is divided into a slave-side constrained optimization algorithm, which provides virtual fixtures, and with Cartesian impedance on the master side to provide force feedback. Experiments with two robotic systems, one redundant and one non-redundant, show that smooth teleoperation can be achieved in adult laparoscopy and infant surgery.

Title: High-Speed Ring Insertion by Dynamic Observable Contact Hand
Key Words: assembling  design of experiments  dexterous manipulators  error compensation  masks  position control  robot hand  impact reduction  position-error compensation  objects contact  DOC hand  6-degrees-of- freedom dynamic passivity  robot system  high-speed precision assembly  dynamic observable contact hand  multifingered hand  high speed ring insertion  time 2.42 s  time 2.58 s  Robots  Shafts  Task analysis  Shape  Force  Grippers  Kinematics 
Abstract: This study proposes a dynamic observable contact (DOC) hand as a new multifingered hand to ensure high- speed insertion in an assembly process with a small clearance between objects. To achieve insertion with a small clearance at high speed, a robot hand must realize both impact reduction and position-error compensation when the two objects contact each other. The DOC hand, with its features of 6-degrees-of- freedom dynamic passivity and object-pose observability, can realize both impact reduction and position-error compensation. To evaluate the effectiveness of the DOC hand, we construct a robot system using the DOC hand. We evaluate the performance of the system in the task of ring insertion with a small clearance (0-36um). The results indicate that the robot system performs with a higher speed than a human. In fact, the average cycle time is 2.42 s for the robot, whereas it is 2.58 s for a human. The DOC hand has opened up the possibility for achieving high-speed precision assembly using robots.

Title: Learning To Grasp Under Uncertainty Using POMDPs
Key Words: grippers  humanoid robots  learning (artificial intelligence)  Markov processes  object detection  recurrent neural nets  robust control  service robots  uncertainty handling  visual sensing  partially observable Markov decision process  grasp policy  deep recurrent neural network  imitation learning  model-based POMDP planning  G3DB object dataset  service robots  far-field sensors  open-loop grasp  tactile sensing  adaptive grasping  robust object grasping strategy  uncertainty handling  Uncertainty  Grippers  Grasping  Planning  Sensors  Shape  Computational modeling 
Abstract: Robust object grasping under uncertainty is an essential capability of service robots. Many existing approaches rely on far-field sensors, such as cameras, to compute a grasp pose and perform open-loop grasp after placing gripper under the pose. This often fails as a result of sensing or environment uncertainty. This paper presents a principled, general and efficient approach to adaptive grasping, using both tactile and visual sensing as feedback. We first model adaptive grasping as a partially observable Markov decision process (POMDP), which handles uncertainty naturally. We solve the POMDP for sampled objects from a set, in order to generate data for learning. Finally, we train a grasp policy, represented as a deep recurrent neural network (RNN), in simulation through imitation learning. By combining model-based POMDP planning and imitation learning, the proposed approach achieves robustness under uncertainty, generalization over many objects, and fast execution. In particular, we show that modeling only a small sample of objects enables us to learn a robust strategy to grasp previously unseen objects of varying shapes and recover from failure over multiple steps. Experiments on the G3DB object dataset in simulation and a smaller object set with a real robot indicate promising results.

Title: Soft Hands with Embodied Constraints: The Soft ScoopGripper
Key Words: control system synthesis  grippers  uncertain systems  soft ScoopGripper  underactuation  robust grasps  robotic gripper design  modular under actuated soft hand  object grasping  Robots  Grippers  Tendons  Actuators  Grasping  Force  Fasteners 
Abstract: The design of robotic grippers requires the accomplishment of several contrasting requirements. Research in under actuated soft hands is a lively topic, with several potentialities and challenges. Soft hands are simple, robust and able of adapting to uncertain environment and operative conditions, however their intrinsic compliance and underactuation reduce control capabilities and precision. Recent studies attempted to compensate this limitation by wisely exploiting environmental constraints and considering them as supports to accomplish the task rather than obstacle to avoid. The development of grasp primitives taking into account environment features leaded to interesting and encouraging results. In this paper, we propose to embed on the hand the positive aspects of studies on environmental constraints exploitation. We present a modular under actuated soft hand in which we added a scoop as a feature of the palm, which simplify object grasping. The scoop allows to grasp objects in narrow spaces, augments the possible contact areas, allows to obtain more robust grasps, with lower forces. The paper illustrates the main design principles, a prototype and experimental results.

Title: A Simple Electric Soft Robotic Gripper with High-Deformation Haptic Feedback
Key Words: auxetics  deformation  feedback  grippers  haptic interfaces  pressure sensors  grasping tasks  electric soft robotic gripper  fabrication techniques  sensorized system  object classification  gripper proprioception  coupling deformable sensors  electric motors  structurally-compliant handed shearing auxetic structures  pressure sensors  high-deformation strain  complex driving hardware  proprioceptive soft robotic grippers  proprioceptive feedback  tactile feedback  manipulation tasks  compliant robotic grippers  high-deformation haptic feedback  Grippers  Strain  Capacitive sensors  Robot sensing systems  Servomotors  Pressure sensors 
Abstract: Compliant robotic grippers are more robust to uncertainties in grasping and manipulation tasks, especially when paired with tactile and proprioceptive feedback. Although considerable progress has been made towards achieving proprioceptive soft robotic grippers, current efforts require complex driving hardware or fabrication techniques. In this paper, we present a simple scalable soft robotic gripper integrated with high-deformation strain and pressure sensors. The gripper is composed of structurally-compliant handed shearing auxetic structures actuated by electric motors. Coupling deformable sensors with the compliant grippers enables gripper proprioception and object classification. With this sensorized system, we are able to identify objects' size to within 33% of actual radius and sort objects as hard/soft with 78% accuracy.

Title: Using Geometric Features to Represent Near-Contact Behavior in Robotic Grasping
Key Words: geometry  grippers  learning (artificial intelligence)  kinematic noise  contact points  binary grasp success classifier  hand morphologies  hand-object geometric relationships  near-contact behavior  near-contact stage  feature representations  robotic grasping  geometric features  Measurement  Robots  Grasping  Surface morphology  Geometry  Morphology  Machine learning algorithms 
Abstract: In this paper we define two feature representations for grasping. These representations capture hand-object geometric relationships at the near-contact stage - before the fingers close around the object. Their benefits are: 1) They are stable under noise in both joint and pose variation. 2) They are largely hand and object agnostic, enabling direct comparison across different hand morphologies. 3) Their format makes them suitable for direct application of machine learning techniques developed for images. We validate the representations by: 1) Demonstrating that they can accurately predict the distribution of ε-metric values generated by kinematic noise. I.e., they capture much of the information inherent in contact points and force vectors without the corresponding instabilities. 2) Training a binary grasp success classifier on a real-world data set consisting of 588 grasps.

Title: A GPU Based Parallel Genetic Algorithm for the Orientation Optimization Problem in 3D Printing*
Key Words: genetic algorithms  graphics processing units  parallel algorithms  production engineering computing  three-dimensional printing  parallel genetic algorithm  3D printing  additive manufacturing  GA  single-objective optimization  building time  multiobjective optimization problem  model orientation problem  orientation optimization problem  GPU  Optimization  Silicon  Solid modeling  Graphics processing units  Genetic algorithms  Three-dimensional printing  Orientation Optimization  GPU  parallel computing  genetic algorithm  Additive Manufacturing 
Abstract: The choice of model orientation is a very important issue in Additive Manufacturing (AM). In this paper, the model orientation problem is formulated as a multi-objective optimization problem, aiming at minimizing the building time, the surface quality, and the supporting area. Then we convert the problem into a single-objective optimization in the linear-weighted way. After that, the Genetic Algorithm (GA) is used to solve the optimization problem and the process of GA is parallelized and implemented on GPU. Experimental results show that when dealing with complex models in AM, compared with CPU only implementation, the GPU based GA can speed up the process by about 50 times, which helps to significantly reduce the optimization time and ensure the quality of solutions. The GPU based parallel methods we proposed can help to reduce the execution time and improve the efficiency greatly, making the processes more efficient.

Title: Where Should We Place LiDARs on the Autonomous Vehicle? - An Optimal Design Approach
Key Words: ant colony optimisation  evolutionary computation  minimax techniques  object detection  optical radar  nondetectable subspace  min-max optimization problem  cuboid-based approach  VSR-based measure  object detection rate  tractable cost function computation  VSR measure  cost-effectiveness configuration  optimal design approach  autonomous vehicle manufacturers  accurate 3D views  precise distance measures  optimal LiDAR configuration problem  utility maximization  artificial bee colony evolutionary algorithm  uncertain driving conditions  bio-inspired measure  Laser radar  Laser beams  Cost function  Shape  Three-dimensional displays  Cameras 
Abstract: Autonomous vehicle manufacturers recognize that LiDAR provides accurate 3D views and precise distance measures under highly uncertain driving conditions. Its practical implementation, however, remains costly. This paper investigates the optimal LiDAR configuration problem to achieve utility maximization. We use the perception area and non-detectable subspace to construct the design procedure as solving a min-max optimization problem and propose a bio-inspired measure - volume to surface area ratio (VSR) - as an easy-to-evaluate cost function representing the notion of the size of the non-detectable subspaces of a given configuration. We then adopt a cuboid-based approach to show that the proposed VSR-based measure is a well-suited proxy for object detection rate. It is found that the Artificial Bee Colony evolutionary algorithm yields a tractable cost function computation. Our experiments highlight the effectiveness of our proposed VSR measure in terms of cost-effectiveness configuration as well as providing insightful analyses that can improve the design of AV systems.

Title: A Robotic Cell for Multi-Resolution Additive Manufacturing
Key Words: extrusion  industrial robots  manipulators  nozzles  rapid prototyping (industrial)  surface finishing  three-dimensional printing  trajectory control  planar layers  robot manipulators  robotic cell  multiresolution additive manufacturing  heated nozzle  surface finish  fiber orientations  extrusion  layer-by-layer deposition  fused deposition model  nonplanar layers  degrees of freedom  collision-free trajectories  Tools  Printing  Surface treatment  Manipulators  Collision avoidance  Robot kinematics 
Abstract: Extrusion-based additive manufacturing (AM), also known as fused deposition modeling (FDM) extrudes filaments through a heated nozzle and builds a part layer-by-layer. Using a smaller diameter nozzle can achieve better surface finish. However, there is a trade-off between surface finish and build times as using a small diameter nozzle leads to smaller layer thickness and long build times. Traditional FDM printers create a part with planar layers, and this restricts control over fiber orientations. This paper presents a robotic cell for multi-resolution AM. The cell consists of two 6 degrees of freedom (DOF) robot manipulators capable of printing non-planar and/or planar layers. We describe algorithms for decomposing parts into multi-resolution layers and generating collision-free trajectories for the robot manipulators. We validate our approach by printing five parts with multi-resolution.

Title: Multimodal Bin Picking System with Compliant Tactile Sensor Arrays for Flexible Part Handling*
Key Words: control engineering computing  grippers  manipulators  object recognition  pose estimation  robot vision  sensor arrays  tactile sensors  compliant tactile sensor arrays  flexible part handling  robot control architecture  vision sensors  reliable handling  tactile grasp validation system  in-hand object monitoring  industrial grippers  magnetic gripper  flexible vacuum gripper  compliant custom tactile sensor array  specific gripper  in-hand object recognition  tactile-based object  grasp monitoring  tactile sensing  multimodal bin picking system  off-the-shelf bin picking system  vision-based picking approaches  Grippers  Grasping  Tactile sensors  Pose estimation  Monitoring  Sensor arrays 
Abstract: This paper presents a robot control architecture comprised of tactile and vision sensors incorporated into an off-the-shelf bin picking system. The proposed architecture facilitates flexible and reliable handling of objects and materials by employing a tactile grasp validation system and in-hand object monitoring. Two industrial grippers, specifically a magnetic gripper and a flexible vacuum gripper, are equipped with a compliant custom tactile sensor array. The algorithms used are for each specific gripper and respective sensor, however are transferrable to other grippers as well. The tactile sensing augments vision-based picking approaches, thus supporting in-hand object recognition [1] that is particularly useful for hard-to-recognize objects such as objects with transparent or shiny surfaces. Algorithms for tactile-based object pose estimation in the gripper and for grasp monitoring, including grasp validation, complete the approach.

Title: Offline Policy Iteration Based Reinforcement Learning Controller for Online Robotic Knee Prosthesis Parameter Tuning
Key Words: biomechanics  finite state machines  iterative methods  learning systems  medical robotics  optimal control  prosthetics  offline policy iteration  online robotic knee prosthesis parameter  optimal controller  personalized control  optimal control problems  human-prosthesis system  prototypic robotic prosthesis  approximate policy iteration algorithm  reinforcement learning-based control  near-normal knee kinematics  offline learning  robotic lower limb prosthesis  RL control  control policy  impedance control parameters  prosthesis control parameters  Prosthetics  Knee  Impedance  Kinematics  Reinforcement learning  Legged locomotion 
Abstract: This paper aims to develop an optimal controller that can automatically provide personalized control of robotic knee prosthesis in order to best support gait of individual prosthesis wearers. We introduced a new reinforcement learning (RL) controller for this purpose based on the promising ability of RL controllers to solve optimal control problems through interactions with the environment without requiring an explicit system model. However, collecting data from a human-prosthesis system is expensive and thus the design of a RL controller has to take into account data and time efficiency. We therefore propose an offline policy iteration based reinforcement learning approach. Our solution is built on the finite state machine (FSM) impedance control framework, which is the most used prosthesis control method in commercial and prototypic robotic prosthesis. Under such a framework, we designed an approximate policy iteration algorithm to devise impedance parameter update rules for 12 prosthesis control parameters in order to meet individual users' needs. The goal of the reinforcement learning-based control was to reproduce near-normal knee kinematics during gait. We tested the RL controller obtained from offline learning in real time experiment involving the same able-bodied human subject wearing a robotic lower limb prosthesis. Our results showed that the RL control resulted in good convergent behavior in kinematic states, and the offline learning control policy successfully adjusted the prosthesis control parameters to produce near-normal knee kinematics in 10 updates of the impedance control parameters.

Title: Consolidated control framework to control a powered transfemoral prosthesis over inclined terrain conditions
Key Words: legged locomotion  medical control systems  optimisation  PD control  prosthetics  PD controller  AMPRO II  cubic Bezier polynomials  proportional-derivative controller  impedance parameters  impedance control scheme  trajectory tracking  sloped terrains  inclined terrain conditions  consolidated control framework  terrain inclinations  powered transfemoral prosthesis  terminal swing phase  slope walking trajectories  human slope walking data  offline optimization problem  Proportional-Derivative controller  compliant stance phase  Legged locomotion  Prosthetics  Trajectory  Impedance  Knee  Thigh  Kinematics 
Abstract: For amputees, walking on sloped surfaces is one of the most challenging tasks in their daily lives. Unfortunately, designing a prosthesis that can effectively adapt to varying terrain is an ongoing problem. In this paper, we propose a unified control scheme that enables a powered transfemoral prosthesis to perform human-like walking on sloped terrains regardless of the slope and without any knowledge of the upcoming slope. The control scheme implements impedance control and trajectory tracking during the stance and swing phase, respectively. In the impedance control scheme, properly tuned impedance parameters are used to provide a stable and compliant stance phase that adapts to the slope of the ground. During the swing phase, the system is controlled by a Proportional-Derivative (PD) controller to track the desired trajectories based on cubic Bezier polynomials. These trajectories were obtained by solving an offline optimization problem compared to human slope walking data. Any slope walking trajectories can be generated online by using the optimized Bezier coefficients. At the terminal swing phase, a low gain PD controller is utilized to adapt to the unexpected terrains and smoothly track the generated trajectories. The proposed control framework is implemented on a powered transfemoral prosthesis, AMPRO II, on various slopes. The results validate the controller's ability to adapt to terrain inclinations within the range of ± 10°.

Title: Estimating Loads Along Elastic Rods
Key Words: bending  elasticity  inverse problems  manipulators  nonlinear programming  rods (structures)  elastic structures  distributed loads  elastic rod  large-deflection Cosserat-rod model  rod length  double-bend shapes  shape approximation  mechanics-based models  mechanics inverse problem  constrained nonlinear optimization  Force  Robot sensing systems  Shape  Load modeling  Optimization 
Abstract: Mechanics-based models of thin elastic structures are prevalent in robotics research, both in soft/continuum robot modeling, and in robotic manipulation of strings, sutures, needles, and endoscopes. In all these applications, distributed loads along the device's length can affect its shape in space. Estimation of the distributed loading based on observation of the object's shape constitutes a classical mechanics inverse problem that would be useful in many applications, but this problem has received relatively little attention to date. In this paper, we propose methods to estimate distributed loads on an elastic rod using a large-deflection Cosserat-rod model and constrained nonlinear optimization. We perform experiments that illustrate the feasibility of using these methods to locate regions of high contact force along the rod, and to estimate magnitudes of the forces that are applied. Results show that overall force magnitudes and locations can be estimated with average error of 0.29 N (6.7% of average resultant magnitude) and 4 mm (2% of rod length) for complex double-bend shapes, and the shape approximation has near-zero error.

Title: Oriented Point Sampling for Plane Detection in Unorganized Point Clouds
Key Words: image reconstruction  image segmentation  image sensors  object detection  octrees  robot vision  SLAM (robots)  solid modelling  unorganized point clouds  crucial pre-processing step  point cloud segmentation  organized point clouds  plane hypotheses  unoriented points  efficient plane detection method  semantic mapping  SLAM  plane detection methods  OPS  oriented point sampling  Three-dimensional displays  Sun  Surface treatment  Clustering algorithms  Octrees  Estimation  Image segmentation 
Abstract: Plane detection in 3D point clouds is a crucial pre-processing step for applications such as point cloud segmentation, semantic mapping and SLAM. In contrast to many recent plane detection methods that are only applicable on organized point clouds, our work is targeted to unorganized point clouds that do not permit a 2D parametrization. We compare three methods for detecting planes in point clouds efficiently. One is a novel method proposed in this paper that generates plane hypotheses by sampling from a set of points with estimated normals. We named this method Oriented Point Sampling (OPS) to contrast with more conventional techniques that require the sampling of three unoriented points to generate plane hypotheses. We also implemented an efficient plane detection method based on local sampling of three unoriented points and compared it with OPS and the 3D-KHT algorithm, which is based on octrees, on the detection of planes on 10,000 point clouds from the SUN RGB-D dataset.

Title: The Importance of Metric Learning for Robotic Vision: Open Set Recognition and Active Learning
Key Words: convolutional neural nets  image classification  learning (artificial intelligence)  robot vision  robotic vision  robotic problems  training set distribution  robotic applications  real-world robotic action  deep metric learning classification system  open set recognition problems  open set active learning approach  active learning problems  deep neural network recognition systems  Training  Robots  Labeling  Semantics  Task analysis  Extraterrestrial measurements 
Abstract: State-of-the-art deep neural network recognition systems are designed for a static and closed world. It is usually assumed that the distribution at test time will be the same as the distribution during training. As a result, classifiers are forced to categorise observations into one out of a set of predefined semantic classes. Robotic problems are dynamic and open world; a robot will likely observe objects that are from outside of the training set distribution. Classifier outputs in robotic applications can lead to real-world robotic action and as such, a practical recognition system should not silently fail by confidently misclassifying novel observations. We show how a deep metric learning classification system can be applied to such open set recognition problems, allowing the classifier to label novel observations as unknown. Further to detecting novel examples, we propose an open set active learning approach that allows a robot to efficiently query a user about unknown observations. Our approach enables a robot to improve its understanding of the true distribution of data in the environment, from a small number of label queries. Experimental results show that our approach significantly outperforms comparable methods in both the open set recognition and active learning problems.

Title: Learning Discriminative Embeddings for Object Recognition on-the-fly
Key Words: image classification  learning (artificial intelligence)  object recognition  lightweight classifier  Computer Vision applications  real-world images datasets  inference time  unseen objects  trained model  Supervised Triplet Loss  separable embeddings  high-end computational resources  CNNs  object recognition on-the-fly  discriminative embeddings  Training  Measurement  Computational modeling  Robots  Computer architecture  Object recognition  Support vector machines 
Abstract: We address the problem of learning to recognize new objects on-the-fly efficiently. When using CNNs, a typical approach for learning new objects is by fine-tuning the model. However, this approach relies on the assumption that the original training set is available and requires high-end computational resources for training the ever-growing dataset efficiently, which can be unfeasible for robots with limited hardware. To overcome these limitations, we propose a new architecture that: 1) Instead of predicting labels, it learns to generate discriminative and separable embeddings of an object's viewpoints by using a Supervised Triplet Loss, which is easier to implement than current smart mining techniques and the trained model can be applied to unseen objects. 2) Infers an object's identity efficiently by utilizing a lightweight classifier in the features embedding space, this keeps the inference time in the order of milliseconds and can be retrained efficiently when new objects are learned. We evaluate our approach on four real-world images datasets used for Robotics and Computer Vision applications: Amazon Robotics Challenge 2017 by MIT-Princeton, T-LESS, ToyBoX, and CORe50 datasets. Code available at [1].

Title: A Novel Multi-layer Framework for Tiny Obstacle Discovery
Key Words: collision avoidance  edge detection  feature extraction  mobile robots  probability  regression analysis  robot vision  tiny obstacle discovery  monocular image  obstacle-aware discovery method  multilayer regions  tiny obstacle proposals  multilayer framework  edge detection  missing contour recovery  visual cues  obstacle-aware occlusion edge maps  proposals extraction  obstacle occupied probability map  obstacle-aware regressor  Lost and Found dataset  Image edge detection  Proposals  Visualization  Roads  Cameras  Three-dimensional displays  Two dimensional displays 
Abstract: For tiny obstacle discovery in a monocular image, edge is a fundamental visual element. Nevertheless, because of various reasons, e.g., noise and similar color distribution with background, it is still difficult to detect the edges of tiny (b) obstacles at long distance. In this paper, we propose an obstacle-aware discovery method to recover the missing contours of these obstacles, which helps to obtain obstacle proposals as much as possible. First, by using visual cues in monocular images, several multi-layer regions are elaborately inferred to reveal the distances from the camera. Second, several novel obstacle-aware occlusion edge maps are constructed to well capture the contours of tiny obstacles, which combines cues from each layer. Third, to ensure the existence of the tiny obstacle proposals, the maps from all layers are used for proposals extraction. Finally, based on these proposals containing tiny obstacles, a novel obstacle-aware regressor is proposed to generate an obstacle occupied probability map with high confidence. The convincing experimental results with comparisons on the Lost and Found dataset demonstrate the effectiveness of our approach, achieving around 9.5% improvement on the accuracy than FPHT and PHT, it even gets comparable performance to MergeNet. Moreover, our method outperforms the state-of-the-art algorithms and significantly improves the discovery ability for tiny obstacles at long distance.

Title: DSNet: Joint Learning for Scene Segmentation and Disparity Estimation
Key Words: feature extraction  image coding  image matching  image segmentation  image sequences  learning (artificial intelligence)  semantic features  deep disparity features  semantic labels  scene segmentation  disparity estimation  scene semantics  optical flow estimation  depth information  dense depth maps  image frames  deep semantic information  disparity feature maps  independent encoding modules  semantic disparity information  multitasking architecture DSNet  ResNet encoding module  Semantics  Estimation  Task analysis  Feature extraction  Optical imaging  Training  Three-dimensional displays 
Abstract: Recently, research works have attempted the joint prediction of scene semantics and optical flow estimation, which demonstrate the mutual improvement between both tasks. Besides, the depth information is also indispensable for the scene understanding, and disparity estimation is necessary for outputting dense depth maps. Such task shares a great similarity with the optical flow estimation since they can all be cast into a problem of capturing the difference at a location of two image frames. However, as far as we know, currently there are few networks for the joint learning of semantic and disparity. Moreover, since deep semantic information and disparity feature maps can learn from each other, we find it unnecessary with two independent encoding modules to separately extract semantic and disparity features. Therefore, we propose a unified multi-tasking architecture DSNet, for the simultaneous estimation of semantic and disparity information. In our model, semantic features, extracted by the encoding module ResNet from the left and right images, are used to obtain the deep disparity features via a novel matching module which performs pixel-to-pixel matching. In addition, we also use the disparity map to perform warp operation on deep features of the right image to deal with the problem of lacking of semantic labels. The effectiveness of our method is demonstrated by extensive experiments.

Title: Spatial change detection using voxel classification by normal distributions transform
Key Words: image classification  image colour analysis  image sensors  mobile robots  normal distribution  object detection  optical scanners  robot vision  SLAM (robots)  stereo image processing  transforms  voxel classification  robotic applications  mobile robot  3D laser scanner  grid data  ND voxels  normal distributions transform  spatial change detection  onboard RGB-D camera  stereo camera  real-time range sensors  real-time localization  Three-dimensional displays  Mobile robots  Cameras  Real-time systems  Measurement by laser beam  Sensors 
Abstract: Detection of spatial change around a robot is indispensable in several robotic applications, such as search and rescue, security, and surveillance. The present paper proposes a fast spatial change detection technique for a mobile robot using an on-board RGB-D/stereo camera and a highly precise 3D map created by a 3D laser scanner. This technique first converts point clouds in a map and measured data to grid data (ND voxels) using normal distributions transform and classifies the ND voxels into three categories. The voxels in the map and the measured data are then compared according to the category and features of the ND voxels. Overlapping and voting techniques are also introduced in order to detect the spatial changes more robustly. We conducted experiments using a mobile robot equipped with real-time range sensors to confirm the performance of the proposed real-time localization and spatial change detection techniques in indoor and outdoor environments.

Title: Set-based Inverse Kinematics Control of an Anthropomorphic Dual Arm Aerial Manipulator
Key Words: autonomous aerial vehicles  end effectors  helicopters  manipulator kinematics  mobile robots  motion control  position control  redundant manipulators  inverse kinematics control  anthropomorphic dual arm aerial manipulator  multiple task-priority inverse kinematics algorithm  dual-arm aerial manipulator  equality constraints  inequality constraints  singularity robust method  motion control  underactuated aerial hexarotor vehicle  manipulators  null-space based behavioral control  Task analysis  Kinematics  End effectors  Jacobian matrices  Robot kinematics 
Abstract: The paper presents a multiple task-priority inverse kinematics algorithm for a dual-arm aerial manipulator. Both tasks defined as equality constraints and inequality constraints are handled by means of a singularity robust method based on the Null-Space based Behavioral control. The proposed schema is constituted by the inverse kinematics control, that receives the desired behavior of the system and outputs the reference values for the motion variables, i.e. the UAV pose and the arm joints position, and a motion control, that computes the vehicle thrusts and the joint torques. The method has been experimentally validated on a system composed by an underactuated aerial hexarotor vehicle equipped with two lightweight 4-DOF manipulators, involved in operations requiring the coordination of the two arms and the vehicle.

Title: Detection and Tracking of Small Objects in Sparse 3D Laser Range Data
Key Words: autonomous aerial vehicles  data structures  image segmentation  image sensors  laser ranging  median filters  mobile robots  object detection  object tracking  robot vision  solid modelling  autonomous behavior  microaerial vehicles  multiobject tracking  lightweight sensors  sparse point clouds  Velodyne VLP-16 sensor  MAV hardware  unlabeled data  sparse 3d laser range data  objects detection  median filters  data structure  Three-dimensional displays  Sensors  Target tracking  Object tracking  Real-time systems  Vehicle dynamics  Heuristic algorithms 
Abstract: Detection and tracking of dynamic objects is a key feature for autonomous behavior in a continuously changing environment. With the increasing popularity and capability of micro aerial vehicles (MAVs) efficient algorithms have to be utilized to enable multi object tracking on limited hardware and data provided by lightweight sensors. We present a novel segmentation approach based on a combination of median filters and an efficient pipeline for detection and tracking of small objects within sparse point clouds generated by a Velodyne VLP-16 sensor. We achieve real-time performance on a single core of our MAV hardware by exploiting the inherent structure of the data. Our approach is evaluated on simulated and real scans of in- and outdoor environments, obtaining results comparable to the state of the art. Additionally, we provide an application for filtering the dynamic and mapping the static part of the data, generating further insights into the performance of the pipeline on unlabeled data.

Title: GPS-Denied UAV Localization using Pre-existing Satellite Imagery
Key Words: artificial satellites  autonomous aerial vehicles  cameras  convolutional neural nets  distance measurement  Global Positioning System  mobile robots  object detection  robot vision  flight location  UAV imagery  image capturing conditions  localization accuracy  adjacent UAV frames  satellite map  GPS-denied flight  average localization error  GPS-denied UAV localization  onboard GPS system  noisy GPS signal  unreliable GPS signal  monocular RGB camera  convolutional neural network representations  satellite data  satellite imagery  unmanned aerial vehicles  distance 0.85 km  distance 0.2 km  Satellites  Global Positioning System  Unmanned aerial vehicles  Training  Meters  Imaging  Buildings 
Abstract: We present a method for localization of Unmanned Aerial Vehicles (UAVs) which is meant to replace an onboard GPS system in the event of a noisy or unreliable GPS signal. Our method requires only a downward-facing monocular RGB camera on the UAV, and pre-existing satellite imagery of the flight location to which the UAV imagery is compared and aligned. To overcome differences in the image capturing conditions between the satellite and UAV, such as seasonal and perspective changes, we propose the use of Convolutional Neural Network (CNN) representations trained on readily available satellite data. To increase localization accuracy, we also develop an optimization which jointly minimizes the error between adjacent UAV frames as well as the satellite map. We demonstrate how our method improves on recent systems from literature by achieving greater performance in flight environments with very few landmarks. For a GPS-denied flight at 0.2km altitude, over a flight distance of 0.85km, we achieve average localization error of less than 8 meters. We make our source code and datasets available to encourage further work on this emerging topic.

Title: Adaptive View Planning for Aerial 3D Reconstruction
Key Words: autonomous aerial vehicles  image reconstruction  optimisation  trajectory control  aerial 3D reconstruction  aerial vehicles  high quality reconstruction  adaptive view planning method  coarse proxy  reconstruction error  3D free space  Image reconstruction  Trajectory  Three-dimensional displays  Planning  Image resolution  Feature extraction  Drones 
Abstract: With the proliferation of small aerial vehicles, acquiring close up imagery for high quality reconstruction is gaining importance. We present an adaptive view planning method to collect such images in an automated fashion. We first start by sampling a small set of views to build a coarse proxy to the scene. We then present (i) a method that builds a set of adaptive viewing planes for efficient view selection and (ii) an algorithm to plan a trajectory that guarantees high reconstruction quality which does not deviate too much from the optimal one. The vehicle then follows the trajectory to cover the scene, and the procedure is repeated until reconstruction quality converges or a desired level of quality is achieved. The set of viewing planes provides an effective compromise between using the entire 3D free space and using a single view hemisphere to select the views. We compare our algorithm to existing methods in three challenging scenes. Our algorithm generates views which produce the least reconstruction error comparing to three different baseline approaches.

Title: An Autonomous Loop-Closure Approach for Simultaneous Exploration and Coverage of Unknown Infrastructure Using MAVs
Key Words: autonomous aerial vehicles  inspection  microrobots  mobile robots  spatial measurements  MAV motions  complete exploration  autonomous loop-closure approach  simultaneous exploration  unknown infrastructure  attractive means  critical infrastructure  autonomous tasks  precise spatial model  operational area  sensor measurements  autonomous inspection capabilities  autonomous MAV exploration  unknown structure  spatial information  high-fidelity 3D model  low-cost microaerial vehicles  Planning  Three-dimensional displays  Task analysis  Inspection  Simultaneous localization and mapping 
Abstract: The recent proliferation of low-cost Micro Aerial Vehicles (MAV) offers an attractive means for inspecting critical infrastructure autonomously. However, to enable such autonomous tasks requires a precise spatial model of the structure and operational area, typically constructed using sensor measurements obtained from the environment. To facilitate autonomous inspection capabilities, we address the problem of autonomous MAV exploration and coverage of an unknown structure to acquire the spatial information necessary for the development of a high-fidelity 3D model of the structure. Key to this problem is to not only cover the entire structure to acquire a complete set of spatial measurements, but also to minimize accumulative data errors during the exploration through direct planning of loop closures. We introduce a real-time waypoint planning approach to guide MAV motions to achieve complete exploration, coverage, and loop closure while respecting limited onboard resources.

Title: Unsupervised Learning of Assistive Camera Views by an Aerial Co-robot in Augmented Reality Multitasking Environments
Key Words: augmented reality  autonomous aerial vehicles  cameras  computer displays  mobile robots  unsupervised learning  unsupervised learning  assistive camera views  augmented reality multitasking environments  assistive aerial robot  task domain  head motion  anisotropic spherical sensor  expectation maximization solver  Gaussians  dynamic coverage control law  augmented reality display  human operator  assistive robot  reflex time  task completion time  aerial co-robot  Visualization  Task analysis  Cameras  Robot vision systems 
Abstract: This paper presents a novel method by which an assistive aerial robot can learn the relevant camera views within a task domain through tracking the head motions of a human collaborator. The human's visual field is modeled as an anisotropic spherical sensor, which decays in acuity towards the periphery, and is integrated in time throughout the domain. This data is resampled and fed into an expectation maximization solver in order to estimate the environment's visual interest as a mixture of Gaussians. A dynamic coverage control law directs the robot to capture camera views of the peaks of these Gaussians which is broadcast to an augmented reality display worn by the human operator. An experimental study is presented that assesses the influence of the assistive robot on reflex time, head motion, and task completion time.

Title: Visual Coverage Control for Teams of Quadcopters via Control Barrier Functions
Key Words: computational geometry  distributed control  gradient methods  mobile robots  multi-robot systems  position control  visual coverage control  quadcopters  control barrier functions  coverage control strategy  visual sensors  locational cost  cost function  distributed control law  gradient ascent control law  Space missions  Monitoring  Visualization  Robot sensing systems  Cameras 
Abstract: This paper presents a coverage control strategy for teams of quadcopters that ensures that no area is left unsurveyed in between the fields of view of the visual sensors mounted on the quadcopters. We present a locational cost that quantifies the team's coverage performance according to the sensors' performance function. Moreover, the cost function penalizes overlaps between the fields of view of the different sensors, with the objective of increasing the area covered by the team. A distributed control law is derived for the quadcopters so that they adjust their position and zoom according to the direction of ascent of the cost. Control barrier functions are implemented to ensure that, while executing the gradient ascent control law, no holes appear in between the fields of view of neighboring robots. The performance of the algorithm is evaluated in simulated experiments.

Title: Robot Co-design: Beyond the Monotone Case
Key Words: autonomous aerial vehicles  mobile robots  multi-robot systems  optimisation  software aspects  robotic platform  robot design process  small-volumes low-cost applications  computational robot co-design problem  robotic modules  binary optimization formulation  co-design problems  autonomous drone racing platform  multirobot system  monotone case  miniaturized robotic hardware  inexpensive robots  disposable robots  scientific discovery  confined spaces  nanodrones  task-specific robots clashes  human experts  search-and-rescue  Robot sensing systems  Drones  Task analysis  Hardware  Legged locomotion  Optimization 
Abstract: Recent advances in 3D printing and manufacturing of miniaturized robotic hardware and computing are paving the way to build inexpensive and disposable robots. This will have a large impact on several applications including scientific discovery (e.g., hurricane monitoring), search-and-rescue (e.g., operation in confined spaces), and entertainment (e.g., nano drones). The need for inexpensive and task-specific robots clashes with the current practice, where human experts are in charge of designing hardware and software aspects of the robotic platform. This makes the robot design process expensive and time consuming, and ultimately unsuitable for small-volumes low-cost applications. This paper considers the computational robot co-design problem, which aims to create an automatic algorithm that selects the best robotic modules (sensing, actuation, computing) in order to maximize the performance on a task, while satisfying given specifications (e.g., maximum cost of the resulting design). We propose a binary optimization formulation of the co-design problem and show that such formulation generalizes previous work based on strong modeling assumptions. We show that the proposed formulation can solve relatively large co-design problems in seconds and with minimal human intervention. We demonstrate the proposed approach in two applications: the co-design of an autonomous drone racing platform and the co-design of a multi-robot system.

Title: Multi-Vehicle Close Enough Orienteering Problem with Bézier Curves for Multi-Rotor Aerial Vehicles
Key Words: aircraft control  autonomous aerial vehicles  remotely operated vehicles  unsupervised learning  travel cost  travel budget  Bézier curves  multivehicle CEOP  multirotor aerial vehicles  maximal velocity  acceleration limits  rewarding target locations  multivehicle close enough orienteering problem  surveillance planning  unsupervised learning  Trajectory  Acceleration  Adaptive arrays  Planning  Unsupervised learning  Optimization  Surveillance 
Abstract: This paper introduces the Close Enough Orienteering Problem (CEOP) for planning missions with multi-rotor aerial vehicles considering their maximal velocity and acceleration limits. The addressed problem stands to select the most rewarding target locations and sequence to visit them in the given limited travel budget. The reward is collected within a non-zero range from a particular target location that allows saving the travel cost, and thus collect more rewards. Hence, we are searching for the fastest trajectories to collect the most valuable rewards such that the motion constraints are not violated, and the travel budget is satisfied. We leverage on existing trajectory parametrization based on Bézier curves recently deployed in surveillance planning using unsupervised learning, and we propose to employ the learning in a solution of the introduced multi-vehicle CEOP. Feasibility of the proposed approach is supported by empirical evaluation and experimental deployment using multi-rotor vehicles.

Title: Critically fast pick-and-place with suction cups
Key Words: logistics  manipulator dynamics  manipulator kinematics  mechanical contact  path planning  stability  time optimal control  suction cup contacts  fast robotics pick-and-place  contact stability constraint  logistics  factory lines  object transport  object movement  contact handling  kinodynamic constraint  time-optimal parameterization  geometric paths  physical robot system  Stability analysis  Robots  Planning  Friction  Force  Computational modeling  Pipelines 
Abstract: Fast robotics pick-and-place with suction cups is a crucial component in the current development of automation in logistics (factory lines, e-commerce, etc.). By “critically fast” we mean the fastest possible movement for transporting an object such that it does not slip or fall from the suction cup. The main difficulties are: (i) handling the contact between the suction cup and the object, which fundamentally involves kinodynamic constraints; and (ii) doing so at a low computational cost, typically a few hundreds of milliseconds. To address these difficulties, we propose (a) a model for suction cup contacts, (b) a procedure to identify the contact stability constraint based on that model, and (c) a pipeline to parameterize, in a time-optimal manner, arbitrary geometric paths under the identified contact stability constraint. We experimentally validate the proposed pipeline on a physical robot system: the cycle time for a typical pick-and-place task was less than 5 seconds, planning and execution times included. The full pipeline is released as opensource for the robotics community.

Title: Robust Link Position Tracking Control for Robot Manipulators with Series Elastic Actuators Using Time-delay Estimation
Key Words: closed loop systems  delay estimation  delays  manipulators  nonlinear dynamical systems  position control  robust control  variable structure systems  closed-loop stability  link inertia information  dynamic coupling terms  terminal sliding mode control  modified TDE  complicated nonlinear dynamics terms  SEA dynamics  SEA-driven manipulator  robust link position tracking control  robot manipulator  series elastic actuators  time-delay estimation technique  constant gain matrix  TDE framework  Robot sensing systems  Manipulator dynamics  Estimation  Service robots  Torque 
Abstract: This paper aims to develop a controller for a robot manipulator equipped with series elastic actuators (SEAs) to precisely track the desired link position coping with deflections from the intrinsic compliance. The well-known time-delay estimation (TDE) technique is modified for devising the new controller. In this paper, we first report that the conventional use of a constant gain matrix for the TDE framework is insufficient for high accuracy tracking because the tracking accuracy is significantly deteriorated and the closed-loop stability may be threatened. Accordingly, the new controller employs link inertia information with dynamic coupling terms to define the gain for TDE and then employs terminal sliding mode (TSM) control to enhance robustness and convergence speed. Particularly, the modified TDE is applied in the two-staged manner which enables to compensate the complicated nonlinear dynamics terms in SEA dynamics. The TSM synergistically amalgamates the accuracy, robustness, and convergence in tracking. The proposed controller is numerically validated by comparative experiments with a SEA-driven manipulator.

Title: A Simple but Robust Impedance Controller for Series Elastic Actuators
Key Words: actuators  control system synthesis  delay estimation  elasticity  force control  perturbation theory  robust control  robust impedance controller  series elastic actuators  singular perturbation theory  SP theory  TDE technique  time-delay estimation technique  numerical analysis  Impedance  Bandwidth  End effectors  Position control  Actuators 
Abstract: This study presents an impedance controller for series elastic actuators (SEAs), using the singular perturbation (SP) theory and time-delay estimation (TDE) technique. While the SP theory attenuates the requirement for states to be measured, the TDE technique eliminates the requirement for identifying system parameters. Through a numerical analysis and experimental validation, we demonstrate that the proposed controller produces satisfactory tracking performance while-at the same time-pursues wider operational bandwidth and lower driving-point impedance.

Title: Robotic Cutting: Mechanics and Control of Knife Motion
Key Words: blades  dexterous manipulators  force sensors  mobile robots  motion control  position control  material toughness  blade-material friction  shape deformation  robotic arm  separate control strategy  Cartesian space  force constraints  smooth motions  robotic cutting  knife motion  material fracture  smooth knife movements  Force  Friction  Strain  Torque  Robot sensing systems  Manipulators 
Abstract: Effectiveness of cutting is measured by the ability to achieve material fracture with smooth knife movements. The work performed by a knife overcomes the material toughness, acts against the blade-material friction, and generates shape deformation. This paper studies how to control a 2-DOF robotic arm equipped with a force/torque sensor to cut through an object in a sequence of three moves: press, push, and slice. For each move, a separate control strategy in the Cartesian space is designed to incorporate contact and/or force constraints while following some prescribed trajectory. Experiments conducted over several types of natural foods have demonstrated smooth motions like would be commanded by a human hand.

Title: A constrained control-planning strategy for redundant manipulators
Key Words: adaptive control  control system synthesis  fuzzy control  path planning  redundant manipulators  constrained control-planning strategy  redundant manipulators  interconnected control-planning strategy  high-level planning components  adaptive control rule  multibody robotic system  Task analysis  Manipulators  Mathematical model  Optimal control  Planning  Estimation 
Abstract: This paper presents an interconnected control-planning strategy for redundant manipulators, subject to system and environmental constraints. The method incorporates low-level control characteristics and high-level planning components into a robust strategy for manipulators acting in complex environments, subject to joint limits. This strategy is formulated using an adaptive control rule, a computational efficient estimation of the robot's mathematical model and the nullspace of the constraints. A path is generated that takes into account the capabilities of the platform. The proposed method is computationally efficient, enabling its implementation on a real multi-body robotic system. Through experimental results with a 7 degree-of-freedom (DOF) manipulator, we demonstrate the performance of the method in real-world scenarios.

Title: Reinforcement Learning on Variable Impedance Controller for High-Precision Robotic Assembly
Key Words: assembling  control engineering computing  force control  industrial robots  learning (artificial intelligence)  neural net architecture  position control  robotic assembly  wheels  high-precision robotic assembly  precise robotic manipulation skills  industrial settings  reinforcement learning methods  RL  perceived forces  high-precision tasks  proper operational space force controller  open-source Siemens Robot Learning Challenge  precise force-controlled behavior  delicate force-controlled behavior  variable impedance controller  Task analysis  Gears  Aerospace electronics  Robots  Reinforcement learning  Trajectory  Neural networks 
Abstract: Precise robotic manipulation skills are desirable in many industrial settings, reinforcement learning (RL) methods hold the promise of acquiring these skills autonomously. In this paper, we explicitly consider incorporating operational space force/torque information into reinforcement learning; this is motivated by humans heuristically mapping perceived forces to control actions, which results in completing high-precision tasks in a fairly easy manner. Our approach combines RL with force/torque information by incorporating a proper operational space force controller; where we also exploit different ablations on processing this information. Moreover, we propose a neural network architecture that generalizes to reasonable variations of the environment. We evaluate our method on the open-source Siemens Robot Learning Challenge, which requires precise and delicate force-controlled behavior to assemble a tight-fit gear wheel set.

Title: A Compliant and Precise Pneumatic Rotary Drive Using Pneumatic Artificial Muscles in a Swash Plate Design
Key Words: design engineering  human-robot interaction  muscle  pneumatic actuators  position control  torque  mechanic design  pneumatic control system  electric control system  drive unit  adjustable stiffness  stick-slip phenomenon  high precision positioning  pneumatic systems  pneumatic rotary drive unit  human-robot collaboration  articulated robots  precise rotary drive units  compliant drive units  swash plate design  pneumatic artificial muscles  Shafts  Force  Muscles  Torque  Pneumatic systems  Robot sensing systems 
Abstract: Compliant and precise rotary drive units are essential for the design of articulated robots that are capable of safe human-robot collaboration. In this paper, we present a new pneumatic rotary drive unit that combines the compliance of pneumatic systems with the ability to perform high precision positioning. We use pneumatic artificial muscles (PAMs) pulling on a swash plate to avoid the stick-slip phenomenon and to realize adjustable stiffness. Furthermore, the presented drive unit can operate in 360° continuous rotation. These properties make the drive particularly suitable for the later use in human-robot collaboration. We explain the mechanic design as well as the pneumatic and electric control system that we use to operate the drive unit. We derive the equations to calculate the static torque distribution and compare the theoretical results to the data measured on the realized laboratory test stand, depicted in figure 1. The accuracy of the used 16-bit encoder is achieved and adjustable stiffness is realized and measured on the laboratory test stand. The measurements of the reaction to a step response are discussed based on a first and basic control strategy.

Title: Passivity based Control of Antagonistic Tendon-Driven Mechanism
Key Words: asymptotic stability  control system synthesis  end effectors  force control  manipulator dynamics  nonlinear control systems  torque control  antagonistic tendon-driven mechanism  passivity-based control law  passivity theorem  complex tendon-driven mechanism  control strategy  impedance control schemes  gravity compensation  interconnected subsystems  Tendons  Gravity  Torque  Asymptotic stability  Robots  Control systems 
Abstract: The paper presents a passivity-based control law for an antagonistic tendon-driven mechanism. It is proven, by using the passivity theorem, that the proposed control law is able to achieve two properties such as the passivity of interconnected subsystems when the external torque is applied and the global asymptotic stability during free motion when the external force is absent. The proposed controller is simple to be implemented for a complex tendon-driven mechanism because it requires only gravity compensation. In addition, it brings a robustness to the entire control system. And finally, the control strategy can be treated as one of the impedance control schemes so as to achieve the desired performance efficiently.

Title: Exact Modal Characterization of the Non Conservative Non Linear Radial Mass Spring System
Key Words: damping  elasticity  linear systems  modal analysis  nonlinear dynamical systems  robot dynamics  shock absorbers  springs (mechanical)  vibration control  exact modal characterization  modal analysis  linear mechanical systems  nonlinear elastic robot  nonlinear normal modes  nonlinear oscillatory behaviors  dissipative effects  damping  nonconservative nonlinear radial mass spring damper system  Manifolds  Springs  Force  Damping  Soft robotics  Dynamics 
Abstract: Since the spread of robotic systems embedding in their mechanics purposefully designed elastic elements, the interest in characterizing and exploiting non-linear oscillatory behaviors has progressively grown. However, few works so far looked at the problem from the point of view of modal analysis. This is particularly surprising if considered the central role that modal theory had in the development of classic results in analysis and control of linear mechanical systems. With the aim of making a step toward translating and extending this powerful tool to the robotic field, we present the complete modal characterization of a simple yet representative non-linear elastic robot: the 2D planar mass-spring-damper system. Generic non-linear elastic forces and dissipative effects are considered. We provide here exact descriptions of the two non-linear normal modes of the system. We then extend the analysis to generic combinations of the modes in conservative case and for small damping. Simulations are provided to illustrate the theoretical results. This is one of the very firsts applications of normal mode theory to dynamically coupled non-linear systems, and the first exact result in the field.

Title: Body Lift and Drag for a Legged Millirobot in Compliant Beam Environment
Key Words: beams (structures)  drag  force sensors  legged locomotion  microrobots  shells (structures)  legged millirobots  body lift  robot locomotion  body-beam forces  body motion  light-weight legged robots  dense terrains  drag energy  drag forces increase  negative lift forces  VelociRoACH robotic platform  densely cluttered environment  compliant beams  hexapedal millirobot  interaction forces  body contact forces  terrain  granular media  foot traction forces  legged locomotion  compliant beam environment  Robot sensing systems  Legged locomotion  Drag  Shape  Force measurement 
Abstract: Much current study of legged locomotion has rightly focused on foot traction forces, including on granular media. Future legged millirobots will need to go through terrain, such as brush or other vegetation, where the body contact forces significantly affect locomotion. In this work, a (previously developed) low-cost 6-axis force/torque sensing shell is used to measure the interaction forces between a hexapedal millirobot and a set of compliant beams, which act as a surrogate for a densely cluttered environment. Experiments with a VelociRoACH robotic platform are used to measure lift and drag forces on the tactile shell, where negative lift forces can increase traction, even while drag forces increase. The drag energy and specific resistance required to pass through dense terrains can be measured. Furthermore, some contact between the robot and the compliant beams can lower specific resistance of locomotion. For small, light-weight legged robots in the beam environment, the body motion depends on both legground and body-beam forces. A shell-shape which reduces drag but increases negative lift, such as the half-ellipsoid used, is suggested to be advantageous for robot locomotion in this type of environment.

Title: Tightly Coupled 3D Lidar Inertial Odometry and Mapping
Key Words: distance measurement  image fusion  mobile robots  motion estimation  optical radar  pose estimation  robot vision  SLAM (robots)  fast motion conditions  ego-motion estimation  mobile robotic applications  sensor fusion  stand-alone sensors  tightly coupled lidar-IMU fusion method  IMU measurements  lidarIMU odometry  lidar measurement  rotation-constrained refinement algorithm  LIO-mapping  sensor pair  IMU update rate  lidar pose estimation  Laser radar  Three-dimensional displays  Estimation  Robot sensing systems  Feature extraction  Optimization 
Abstract: Ego-motion estimation is a fundamental requirement for most mobile robotic applications. By sensor fusion, we can compensate the deficiencies of stand-alone sensors and provide more reliable estimations. We introduce a tightly coupled lidar-IMU fusion method in this paper. By jointly minimizing the cost derived from lidar and IMU measurements, the lidarIMU odometry (LIO) can perform well with considerable drifts after long-term experiment, even in challenging cases where the lidar measurement can be degraded. Besides, to obtain more reliable estimations of the lidar poses, a rotation-constrained refinement algorithm (LIO-mapping) is proposed to further align the lidar poses with the global map. The experiment results demonstrate that the proposed method can estimate the poses of the sensor pair at the IMU update rate with high precision, even under fast motion conditions or with insufficient features.

Title: Expectation-Maximization for Adaptive Mixture Models in Graph Optimization
Key Words: expectation-maximisation algorithm  Gaussian processes  optimisation  probability  sensor fusion  error distribution  multimodal Gaussian mixture model  sensor fusion problem  expectation-maximization  adaptive mixture algorithm  static parametrization  graph optimization  NonGaussian  multimodal distributions  robust cost functions  convergence properties  robust sensor fusion algorithms  Optimization  Estimation  Convergence  Global navigation satellite system  Adaptation models  Sensor fusion  Robot sensing systems 
Abstract: Non-Gaussian and multimodal distributions are an important part of many recent robust sensor fusion algorithms. In difference to robust cost functions, they are probabilistically founded and have good convergence properties. Since their robustness depends on a close approximation of the real error distribution, their parametrization is crucial. We propose a novel approach that allows to adapt a multi-modal Gaussian mixture model to the error distribution of a sensor fusion problem. By combining expectation-maximization and non-linear least squares optimization, we are able to provide a computationally efficient solution with well-behaved convergence properties. We demonstrate the performance of these algorithms on several real-world GNSS and indoor localization datasets. The proposed adaptive mixture algorithm outperforms state-of-the-art approaches with static parametrization. Source code and datasets are available under https://mytuc.org/libRSF.

Title: Multi-Camera Visual-Inertial Navigation with Online Intrinsic and Extrinsic Calibration
Key Words: calibration  cameras  image sensors  inertial navigation  interpolation  Kalman filters  extrinsic calibration  asynchronous cameras  standard multistate constraint Kalman Filter framework  IMU poses  single base camera  state vector  camera images  inertial measurements  tightly-coupled state estimation  online sensor calibration  mc-VINS algorithm  high-precision localization  multicamera visual-inertial navigation  online intrinsic calibration  pose interpolation  high-fidelity localization  sensor configurations  Cameras  Calibration  Navigation  Cloning  Interpolation  Estimation  Visualization 
Abstract: This paper presents a general multi-camera visual-inertial navigation system (mc-VINS) with online instrinsic and extrinsic calibration, which is able to utilize all the information from an arbitrary number of asynchronous cameras. In particular, within the standard multi-state constraint Kalman Filter (MSCKF) framework, we only clone the IMU poses related to a single “base camera” (rather than all cameras) in the state vector, while the IMU poses corresponding to all other camera images are represented via an interpolation of the poses bounding the measuring time. By doing so, we can fuse all observations from all cameras with inertial measurements while allowing for efficient, tightly-coupled state estimation through parallelization and asynchrony. Moreover, we perform online sensor calibration of each camera's intrinsics as well as the spatial (transformation) and temporal (time offset) extrinsic parameters between all involved sensors (cameras and IMU), thus enabling high-fidelity localization. We validate the proposed mc-VINS algorithm in various real-world experiments with different sensor configurations, showing the ability to offer real-time high-precision localization and calibration results.

Title: Joint Inference of Kinematic and Force Trajectories with Visuo-Tactile Sensing
Key Words: biomimetics  force control  force sensors  graph theory  inference mechanisms  manipulator kinematics  optimisation  probability  robot vision  sensor fusion  state estimation  tactile sensors  trajectory control  biomimetic tactile sensor  force-torque sensor  probabilistic inference  vision sensors  multimodal sensor data  visuo-tactile sensing  robust state estimation  vision-based articulated model tracker  force trajectories  kinematic trajectories  robots  factor graphs  optimization  manipulation platforms  Force  Trajectory  Tactile sensors  Noise measurement  Estimation 
Abstract: To perform complex tasks, robots must be able to interact with and manipulate their surroundings. One of the key challenges in accomplishing this is robust state estimation during physical interactions, where the state involves not only the robot and the object being manipulated, but also the state of the contact itself. In this work, within the context of planar pushing, we extend previous inference-based approaches to state estimation in several ways. We estimate the robot, object, and the contact state on multiple manipulation platforms configured with a vision-based articulated model tracker, and either a biomimetic tactile sensor or a force-torque sensor. We show how to fuse raw measurements from the tracker and tactile sensors to jointly estimate the trajectory of the kinematic states and the forces in the system via probabilistic inference on factor graphs, in both batch and incremental settings. We perform several benchmarks with our framework and show how performance is affected by incorporating various geometric and physics based constraints, occluding vision sensors, or injecting noise in tactile sensors. We also compare with prior work on multiple datasets and demonstrate that our approach can effectively optimize over multi-modal sensor data and reduce uncertainty to find better state estimates.

Title: Every Hop is an Opportunity: Quickly Classifying and Adapting to Terrain During Targeted Hopping
Key Words: control engineering computing  learning (artificial intelligence)  learning systems  mobile robots  pattern classification  robot programming  terrain properties  terrain-informed learning  low shot learning  targeted hopping  task-relevant objectives  hopping robot  control strategies  jumping task  closed-loop jumping  real-world jumping data  terrain classification  online learning experiments  Task analysis  Optimal control  Solids  Force  Robot sensing systems  Solid modeling 
Abstract: Practical use of robots in diverse domains requires programming for, or adapting to, each domain and its unique characteristics. Failure to do so compromises the ability of the robot to achieve task-relevant objectives. Here we describe how the learned terrain reaction force profiles of a hopping robot serve the additional objectives of classifying terrain and quickly learning control strategies to accomplish a jumping task on novel terrain. We show that the reaction forces experienced during closed-loop jumping are sufficient to discriminate between three different terrain types (granular, trampoline, and rigid) when using the learned models as discriminators. Building on this, we show that applying the classification to unknown terrain types leads to faster task completion, where the task objective is to meet a specific jump height. The classification experiments, utilizing real-world jumping data, achieve 95% prediction accuracy. The online learning experiments leverage simulation as there is more control over the terrain properties. Terrain-informed learning achieves the target hop heights more than 2x faster than without terrain knowledge when the prediction is correct, and 1.5x faster when the prediction is incorrect. Thus, applying the closest approximately known terrain knowledge facilitates low shot learning when hopping on unknown terrain.

Title: Semiparametrical Gaussian Processes Learning of Forward Dynamical Models for Navigating in a Circular Maze
Key Words: Gaussian processes  learning (artificial intelligence)  mobile robots  optimisation  regression analysis  robot dynamics  trajectory control  Gaussian process regression  semiparametrical Gaussian processes learning  robot learning  ball trajectories  physics first principles  motion dynamics  dry friction  nonlinear effects  degrees of freedom  circular maze environment  forward dynamical models  Computational modeling  Heuristic algorithms  Servomotors  Navigation  Cameras  Gaussian processes  Dynamics 
Abstract: This paper presents a problem of model learning for the purpose of learning how to navigate a ball to a goal state in a circular maze environment with two degrees of freedom. The motion of the ball in the maze environment is influenced by several non-linear effects such as dry friction and contacts, which are difficult to model physically. We propose a semiparametric model to estimate the motion dynamics of the ball based on Gaussian Process Regression equipped with basis functions obtained from physics first principles. The accuracy of this semiparametric model is shown not only in estimation but also in prediction at n-steps ahead and its compared with standard algorithms for model learning. The learned model is then used in a trajectory optimization algorithm to compute ball trajectories. We propose the system presented in the paper as a benchmark problem for reinforcement and robot learning, for its interesting and challenging dynamics and its relative ease of reproducibility.

Title: Semantic Predictive Control for Explainable and Efficient Policy Learning
Key Words: image motion analysis  image representation  learning (artificial intelligence)  optimisation  predictive control  visual explanation  policy decisions  SPC  future semantic segmentation  multiscale feature maps  guidance model  multiple simulation environments  model-based reinforcement  data efficiency  short time horizons  human-level performance  complex environments  driving policy learning framework  feature representations  sampling-based optimization  semantic predictive control framework  Semantics  Predictive models  Feature extraction  Visualization  Task analysis  Predictive control  Optimization 
Abstract: Visual anticipation of ego and object motion over a short time horizons is a key feature of human-level performance in complex environments. We propose a driving policy learning framework that predicts feature representations of future visual inputs; our predictive model infers not only future events but also semantics, which provide a visual explanation of policy decisions. Our Semantic Predictive Control (SPC) framework predicts future semantic segmentation and events by aggregating multi-scale feature maps. A guidance model assists action selection and enables efficient sampling-based optimization. Experiments on multiple simulation environments show that networks which implement SPC can outperform existing model-based reinforcement learning algorithms in terms of data efficiency and total rewards while providing clear explanations for the policy's behavior.

Title: Adaptive Variance for Changing Sparse-Reward Environments
Key Words: Gaussian processes  learning (artificial intelligence)  optimisation  robot programming  adaptive variance  sparse-reward environments  optimal exploration  Gaussian-parameterized policy  robots  Robots  Task analysis  Reinforcement learning  Training  Adaptation models  Friction  Navigation 
Abstract: Robots that are trained to perform a task in a fixed environment often fail when facing unexpected changes to the environment due to a lack of exploration. We propose a principled way to adapt the policy for better exploration in changing sparse-reward environments. Unlike previous works which explicitly model environmental changes, we analyze the relationship between the value function and the optimal exploration for a Gaussian-parameterized policy and show that our theory leads to an effective strategy for adjusting the variance of the policy, enabling fast adapt to changes in a variety of sparse-reward environments.

Title: Combining Physical Simulators and Object-Based Networks for Control
Key Words: learning (artificial intelligence)  mobile robots  neural nets  object-based neural network  interacting objects  complex control tasks  object shapes  physical simulators  physics engine  robot planning  real-world control problems  complex contact dynamics  hybrid dynamics model  simulator-augmented interaction networks  Physics  Engines  Analytical models  Task analysis  Robots  Predictive models  Mathematical model 
Abstract: Physics engines play an important role in robot planning and control; however, many real-world control problems involve complex contact dynamics that cannot be characterized analytically. Most physics engines therefore employ approximations that lead to a loss in precision. In this paper, we propose a hybrid dynamics model, simulator-augmented interaction networks (SAIN), combining a physics engine with an object-based neural network for dynamics modeling. Compared with existing models that are purely analytical or purely data-driven, our hybrid model captures the dynamics of interacting objects in a more accurate and data-efficient manner. Experiments both in simulation and on a real robot suggest that it also leads to better performance when used in complex control tasks. Finally, we show that our model generalizes to novel environments with varying object shapes and materials.

Title: Using Data-Driven Domain Randomization to Transfer Robust Control Policies to Mobile Robots
Key Words: automobiles  collision avoidance  mobile robots  motion control  probability  robust control  stochastic processes  trajectory control  deep stochastic dynamics model  collision avoidance  1/5 scale agile ground vehicle  robust control policies  vehicle data  collision probability  trajectory tracking accuracy  stochasticity  simple analytic car model  high quality stochastic dynamics model  robot motion trajectories  mobile robots  data-driven domain randomization  Stochastic processes  Data models  Vehicle dynamics  Optimization  Robots  Uncertainty  Computational modeling 
Abstract: This work develops a technique for using robot motion trajectories to create a high quality stochastic dynamics model that is then leveraged in simulation to train control policies with associated performance guarantees. We demonstrate the idea by collecting dynamics data from a 1/5 scale agile ground vehicle, fitting a stochastic dynamics model, and training a policy in simulation to drive around an oval track at up to 6.5 m/s while avoiding obstacles. We show that the control policy can be transferred back to the real vehicle with little loss in predicted performance. We compare this to an approach that uses a simple analytic car model to train a policy in simulation and show that using a model with stochasticity learned from data leads to higher performance in terms of trajectory tracking accuracy and collision probability. Furthermore, we show empirically that simulation-derived performance guarantees transfer to the actual vehicle when executing a policy optimized using a deep stochastic dynamics model fit to vehicle data.

Title: Coordinating multi-robot systems through environment partitioning for adaptive informative sampling
Key Words: image segmentation  mobile robots  multi-robot systems  robot vision  sampling methods  coordinating multirobot systems  environment partitioning  adaptive informative sampling  robotic platforms  time sensitive applications  sensor measurements  highest expected information  multiple robots  system partitions  information rate adaptive sampling approach  simulation environment  region segmentation approach  adaptive information gain rate tasking  naïve closest point approach  region segmentation technique  real world robots  Robot kinematics  Robot sensing systems  Adaptation models  Entropy  Task analysis  Data models 
Abstract: As robotic platforms have become more capable and autonomous, they have increasingly been utilized in time sensitive applications such as search and rescue. To that end, we have developed a system for teams of robots to efficiently explore an environment while taking sensor measurements. The system utilizes an information seeking algorithm that generates high priority points of interest based on the highest expected information gained per distance travelled. In order to coordinate multiple robots, the system partitions the area into different regions according to the effort needed to explore each region. Robots are assigned different regions to measure in order to minimize repetition of work and reduce interference between each robot.We present an information rate adaptive sampling approach for tasking robots within an environment to gather sensor measurements. We evaluated our approach within a simulation environment with one to four robots. Multiple robots are coordinated through our region segmentation approach. The data shows efficiency gains through the use of adaptive information gain rate tasking above a naïve closest point approach. We also see positive results from using the region segmentation technique. We further the experimentation by testing the algorithm on real world robots and verify the results in real world experimentation.

Title: A Fleet of Miniature Cars for Experiments in Cooperative Driving
Key Words: automobiles  human factors  mobile robots  motion control  steering systems  trajectory control  vehicle dynamics  unique experimental testbed  trajectory planning  miniature robotic car  Cambridge Minicar  autonomous control strategies  physical multilane setup  miniature highway  large-fleet experimental research  driver models  multilane road topographies  miniature Ackermann-steering vehicles  Automobiles  Trajectory  Traffic control  DC motors  Servomotors  Robot kinematics 
Abstract: We introduce a unique experimental testbed that consists of a fleet of 16 miniature Ackermann-steering vehicles. We are motivated by a lack of available low-cost platforms to support research and education in multi-car navigation and trajectory planning. This article elaborates the design of our miniature robotic car, the Cambridge Minicar, as well as the fleet's control architecture. Our experimental testbed allows us to implement state-of-the-art driver models as well as autonomous control strategies, and test their validity in a real, physical multi-lane setup. Through experiments on our miniature highway, we are able to tangibly demonstrate the benefits of cooperative driving on multi-lane road topographies. Our setup paves the way for indoor large-fleet experimental research.

Title: Multi-robot Informative Path Planning with Continuous Connectivity Constraints
Key Words: graph theory  integer programming  mobile robots  multi-robot systems  path planning  collision-free informative locations  informative paths  base station performs  multirobot system  information collection  continuous connectivity constraints  multirobot informative path planning  time 0.75 s  Robot sensing systems  Base stations  Path planning  Collision avoidance  Entropy  Bipartite graph 
Abstract: We consider the problem of information collection from a polygonal environment using a multi-robot system, subject to continuous connectivity constraints. In particular, the robots, having a common radius of communication range, must remain connected throughout the exploration maximizing the information collection. The information gained through the exploration of the terrain is wirelessly transmitted to a base station. The base station performs the centralized planning of informative paths for the robots based on the information collected by them and thereafter, the robots follow these paths. This paper formulates the problem of multi-robot informative path planning under continuous connectivity constraints as an integer program leveraging the ideas of bipartite graph matching and minimal node separators. Theoretical analysis of the proposed solution proves that the informative paths will be collision-free and will be free of both livelock and deadlock. Experimental results demonstrate the low computational requirements of our algorithm for planning the informative paths, taking only about 0.75 sec. for planning a joint set of collision-free informative locations for 10 robots.

Title: Sensor Coverage Control Using Robots Constrained to a Curve
Key Words: approximation theory  convex programming  gradient methods  mobile robots  sensors  mobile robots  two-dimensional domain  unconstrained coverage problem  gradient descent  direct projection  unconstrained problem  sensor coverage control  robots constrained  constrained coverage control problem  locational cost minimization  spatial allocation  convex approximation  Robot sensing systems  Optimization  Density functional theory  Wires  Environmental monitoring  Task analysis 
Abstract: In this paper we consider a constrained coverage control problem for a team of mobile robots. The robots are asked to provide sensor coverage over a two-dimensional domain, while being constrained to only move on a curve. The unconstrained coverage problem can be effectively solved by defining a locational cost to be minimized by the robots, in a decentralized fashion, using gradient descent. However, a direct projection of the solution to the unconstrained problem onto the curve may result in a very poor spatial allocation of the team within the two-dimensional domain. Therefore, we propose a modification to the locational cost, which incorporates the constraints, and a convex relaxation that allows us to efficiently minimize a convex approximation of the cost using a decentralized strategy. The resulting algorithm is implemented on a team of mobile robots.

Title: Coverage of an Environment Using Energy-Constrained Unmanned Aerial Vehicles
Key Words: approximation theory  autonomous aerial vehicles  computational complexity  mobile robots  path planning  travelling salesman problems  UGV  area coverage problem  energy-constrained unmanned aerial vehicle  unmanned ground vehicle  symbiotic UAV  NP-hard problem  generalized traveling salesperson problem  boustrophedon cells  limited battery capacity  Batteries  Unmanned aerial vehicles  Agriculture  Robot sensing systems  Strips  Routing 
Abstract: We study the problem of covering an environment using an Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV) with limited battery capacity. We consider a scenario where the UAV can land on an Unmanned Ground Vehicle (UGV) and recharge the onboard battery. The UGV can also recharge the UAV while transporting the UAV to the next take-off site. We present an algorithm to solve a new variant of the area coverage problem that takes into account this symbiotic UAV and UGV system. The input consists of a set of boustrophedon cells - rectangular strips whose width is equal to the field-of-view of the sensor on the UAV. The goal is to find a tour for the UAV that visits and covers all cells in minimum time. This includes flight time for visiting and covering all cells, recharging time, as well as the take-off and landing times. We show how to reduce this problem to a known NP-hard problem, Generalized Traveling Salesperson Problem (GTSP). Given an optimal GTSP solver, our approach finds the optimal coverage paths for the UAV and UGV. We evaluate our algorithm through simulations and proof-of-concept experiments.

Title: Point Cloud Compression for 3D LiDAR Sensor using Recurrent Neural Network with Residual Blocks
Key Words: computational geometry  data compression  image coding  iterative methods  mobile robots  octrees  optical radar  recurrent neural nets  SLAM (robots)  recurrent neural network  residual blocks  generic octree point cloud compression method  potential application scenarios  decompressed point cloud data  3D LiDAR sensor  autonomous driving systems  3D LiDAR data  raw D formatted LiDAR data  2D formatted LiDAR data  Three-dimensional displays  Image coding  Laser radar  Two dimensional displays  Robot sensing systems  Decoding  Recurrent neural networks 
Abstract: The use of 3D LiDAR, which has proven its capabilities in autonomous driving systems, is now expanding into many other fields. The sharing and transmission of point cloud data from 3D LiDAR sensors has broad application prospects in robotics. However, due to the sparseness and disorderly nature of this data, it is difficult to compress it directly into a very low volume. A potential solution is utilizing raw LiDAR data. We can rearrange the raw data from each frame losslessly in a 2D matrix, making the data compact and orderly. Due to the special structure of 3D LiDAR data, the texture of the 2D matrix is irregular, in contrast to 2D matrices of camera images. In order to compress this raw, 2D formatted LiDAR data efficiently, in this paper we propose a method which uses a recurrent neural network and residual blocks to progressively compress one frame's information from 3D LiDAR. Compared to our previous image compression based method and generic octree point cloud compression method, the proposed approach needs much less volume while giving the same decompression accuracy. Potential application scenarios for point cloud compression are also considered in this paper. We describe how decompressed point cloud data can be used with SLAM (simultaneous localization and mapping) as well as for localization using a given map, illustrating potential uses of the proposed method in real robotics applications.

Title: Depth Completion with Deep Geometry and Context Guidance
Key Words: computer vision  convolutional neural nets  feature extraction  learning (artificial intelligence)  object detection  bilateral weight  deep geometry  context guidance  geometry network  context network  single encoder-decoder network  initial propagated depth map  slanted surfaces  convolutional neural network  CNN-based depth completions  local feature extraction  global feature extraction  Three-dimensional displays  Geometry  Feature extraction  Image edge detection  Reliability  Laser radar  Convolution 
Abstract: In this paper, we present an end-to-end convolutional neural network (CNN) for depth completion. Our network consists of a geometry network and a context network. The geometry network, a single encoder-decoder network, learns to optimize a multi-task loss to generate an initial propagated depth map and a surface normal. The complementary outputs allow it to correctly propagate initial sparse depth points in slanted surfaces. The context network extracts a local and a global feature of an image to compute a bilateral weight, which enables it to preserve edges and fine details in the depth maps. At the end, a final output is produced by multiplying the initially propagated depth map with the bilateral weight. In order to validate the effectiveness and the robustness of our network, we performed extensive ablation studies and compared the results against state-of-the-art CNN-based depth completions, where we showed promising results on various scenes.

Title: Self-Supervised Sparse-to-Dense: Self-Supervised Depth Completion from LiDAR and Monocular Camera
Key Words: cameras  image colour analysis  image fusion  image sequences  optical radar  regression analysis  robot vision  semidense annotations  KITTI depth completion benchmark  self-supervised sparse-to-dense  self-supervised depth completion  dense depth image  sparse depth measurements  irregularly spaced pattern  multiple sensor modalities  dense level ground truth depth  pixel-level ground truth depth  self-supervised training framework  sparse depth images  color images  Laser radar  Training  Color  Robot sensing systems  Three-dimensional displays  Convolution  Extraterrestrial measurements 
Abstract: Depth completion, the technique of estimating a dense depth image from sparse depth measurements, has a variety of applications in robotics and autonomous driving. However, depth completion faces 3 main challenges: the irregularly spaced pattern in the sparse depth input, the difficulty in handling multiple sensor modalities (when color images are available), as well as the lack of dense, pixel-level ground truth depth labels for training. In this work, we address all these challenges. Specifically, we develop a deep regression model to learn a direct mapping from sparse depth (and color images) input to dense depth prediction. We also propose a self-supervised training framework that requires only sequences of color and sparse depth images, without the need for dense depth labels. Our experiments demonstrate that the self-supervised framework outperforms a number of existing solutions trained with semi-dense annotations. Furthermore, when trained with semi-dense annotations, our network attains state-of-the-art accuracy and is the winning approach on the KITTI depth completion benchmark at the time of submission.

Title: In-hand Object Scanning via RGB-D Video Segmentation
Key Words: image colour analysis  image reconstruction  image segmentation  object detection  object tracking  video signal processing  video-segmentation-based object tracking algorithm  hand object scanning  RGB-D video segmentation  in-hand manipulation  video camera  multiple grasps  household objects  in-hand object tracking  video tracking algorithms  RGB-D in-hand object manipulation dataset  3D object scanning  Three-dimensional displays  Pipelines  Image color analysis  Cameras  Solid modeling  Image segmentation  Proposals 
Abstract: This paper proposes a technique for 3D object scanning via in-hand manipulation, in which an object reoriented in front of a video camera with multiple grasps and regrasps. In-hand object tracking is a significant challenge under fast movement, rapid appearance changes, and occlusions. This paper proposes a novel video-segmentation-based object tracking algorithm that tracks arbitrary in-hand objects more effectively than existing techniques. It also describes a novel RGB-D in-hand object manipulation dataset consisting of several common household objects. Experiments show that the new method achieves 6% increase in accuracy compared to top performing video tracking algorithms and results in noticeably higher quality reconstructed models. Moreover, testing with a novice user on a set of 200 objects demonstrates relatively rapid construction of complete 3D object models.

Title: Multi-Modal Generative Models for Learning Epistemic Active Sensing
Key Words: control engineering computing  learning (artificial intelligence)  mobile robots  multi-agent systems  neural nets  statistical analysis  multimodal deep generative models  coordinated heterogeneous multiagent active sensing  joint latent representation  epistemic active sensing behavior  multimodal variational auto encoder  sensor modalities  multiagent deep reinforcement learning setup  direct reward signal  evidence lower bound  Robot sensing systems  Robot kinematics  Training  Feature extraction  Reinforcement learning 
Abstract: We present a novel approach of multi-modal deep generative models and apply this to coordinated heterogeneous multi-agent active sensing. A major approach to achieve this objective is to train a multi-modal variational Auto Encoder (M2VAE) that integrates the information of different sensor modalities into a joint latent representation. Furthermore, we derive an objective from the M2VAE that enables the maximization of the evidence lower bound via selection of sensor modalities. Using this approach as a direct reward signal to a multi-modal and multi-agent deep reinforcement learning setup leads intuitively to an epistemic active sensing behavior that coordinately resolves the ambiguity of observations.

Title: Decentralized Formation Coordination of Multiple Quadcopters under Communication Constraints
Key Words: autonomous aerial vehicles  collision avoidance  decentralised control  helicopters  integer programming  linear programming  mobile robots  multi-robot systems  nonlinear programming  robot dynamics  robot kinematics  RSSI  tree searching  outdoor formation coordination  multiple quadcopters  time-optimal speed profile  minimum snap spline path  quadcopter kinematics  wireless communication connectivity  geometric formations  maximum separation distance  minimum viable received signal strength  path loss attenuation  outdoor flight test  formation type  robin communication scheduling scheme  decentralized formation coordination  communication constraints  RH-MINLP  quadcopter dynamics  collision avoidance  outer-approximation branch and bound solver  warm-starting scheme  hardware-in-the-loop  HITL  average radio packet loss statistics  round robin communication scheduling scheme  receding horizon mixed-integer nonlinear program  Splines (mathematics)  Robot kinematics  Collision avoidance  Planning  Optimization  Mobile ad hoc networks 
Abstract: This paper addresses the problem of decentralized, outdoor formation coordination with multiple quadcopters. The problem is formulated as a receding horizon, mixed-integer non-linear program (RH-MINLP). Each quadcopter solves this RH-MINLP to generate its time-optimal speed profile along a minimum snap spline path while coordinating its position in a desired formation with other quadcopters. Constraints on quadcopter kinematics, dynamics, collision avoidance, wireless communication connectivity, and geometric formations are modeled. Communication connectivity is modeled as a constraint on maximum separation distance based on a minimum viable received signal strength in the presence of path loss attenuation. The resulting RH-MINLP is non-convex, and is solved using an outer-approximation branch and bound solver with a warm-starting scheme. The framework is validated via Hardware-in-the-Loop (HITL) and outdoor flight test with up to 6 quadcopters. Results demonstrate the effect of number of quadcopters and formation type on total transit time. Average radio packet loss statistics during transit indicate robust network performance for a round robin communication scheduling scheme.

Title: Online Plan Repair in Multi-robot Coordination with Disturbances
Key Words: collision avoidance  Gaussian processes  multi-robot systems  path planning  RMTRACK control law  Gaussian process  coordination space obstacle  disturbance probabilities  multirobot coordination  online plan repair  Robot kinematics  Collision avoidance  Trajectory  Maintenance engineering  System recovery  Delays 
Abstract: This paper addresses the problem of multi-robot coordination in scenarios where the robots may experience unexpected delays in their movements. Prior work by Čáp, Gregoire, and Frazzołi introduced a control law, called RMTRACK, which enables robots in such scenarios to execute preplanned paths in spite of disturbances in the execution speed of each robot, while guaranteeing that each robot can reach its goal without collisions and without deadlocks. We extend that approach to handle scenarios in which the disturbance probabilities are unknown at the start and non-uniform across the environment. The key idea is to `repair' a plan on-the-fly, by swapping the order in which a pair of robots passes through a mutual collision region (i.e. a coordination space obstacle), when making such a change can be estimated to improve the overall performance of the system. We introduce a technique based on Gaussian Processes to estimate future disturbances, and propose two algorithms for testing, at appropriate times, whether a swap of a given obstacle would be beneficial. Tests in simulation demonstrate that our algorithm achieves significantly smaller average travel time than RMTRACK at only a modest computational expense.

Title: Integrated Mapping and Path Planning for Very Large-Scale Robotic (VLSR) Systems
Key Words: collision avoidance  control engineering computing  mobile robots  multi-robot systems  regression analysis  sensor fusion  decentralized approach  obstacle mapping  continuous probabilistic representation  mapping problem  binary classification task  kernel logistic regression  discriminative classifier online  individual robot maps  path planning algorithm  maximum information value  obstacle avoidance  VLSR system  prior obstacle information  robot paths  Hilbert map fusion method  large-scale robotic systems  onboard range sensors  Robot sensing systems  Entropy  Robot kinematics  Collision avoidance  Path planning 
Abstract: This paper develops a decentralized approach for mapping and information-driven path planning for Very Large Scale Robotic (VLSR) systems. In this approach, obstacle mapping is performed using a continuous probabilistic representation known as a Hilbert map, which formulates the mapping problem as a binary classification task and uses kernel logistic regression to train a discriminative classifier online. A novel Hilbert map fusion method is presented that quickly and efficiently combines the information from individual robot maps. An integrated mapping and path planning algorithm is presented to determine paths of maximum information value, while simultaneously performing obstacle avoidance. Furthermore, the effect of how percentage communication failure effects the overall performance of the system is investigated. The approach is demonstrated on a VLSR system with hundreds of robots that must map obstacles collaboratively over a large region of interest using onboard range sensors and no prior obstacle information. The results show that, through fusion and decentralized processing, the entropy of the map decreases over time and robot paths remain collision-free.

Title: Methodology of Designing Multi-agent Robot Control Systems Utilising Hierarchical Petri Nets
Key Words: finite state machines  multi-agent systems  multi-robot systems  Petri nets  multiagent robot system layer  agent layer  subsystem layer  communication layer  robotic system  robot controller code  multiagent robot control systems  embodied agent  cooperating subsystems  hierarchical finite state machines  hierarchical Petri nets  Petri nets  Tools  Data models  Systematics  Automation  Robot control 
Abstract: A robot system is designed as a set of embodied agents. An embodied agent is decomposed into cooperating subsystems. In our previous work activities of subsystems were defined by hierarchical finite state machines. With their states activities were associated. In that approach communication between subsystems was treated as an implementation issue. This paper represents activities of a robot system using hierarchical Petri nets with conditions. Such net is created by specifying consecutive layers: multi-agent robot system layer, agent layer, subsystem layer, behaviour layer and communication layer. This decomposition not only organizes in a systematic manner the development of a robot system, but also introduces a comprehensive description of concurrently acting subsystems. Based on those theoretical considerations, a tool was created for producing hierarchical Petri nets defining the model of a robotic system and enabling automatic generation of the robot controller code, resulting in a significant acceleration of the implementation phase. The capabilities of the tool are presented by the development of a robot controller performing a rudimentary task.

Title: Interaction-Aware Multi-Agent Reinforcement Learning for Mobile Agents with Individual Goals
Key Words: gradient methods  learning (artificial intelligence)  mobile robots  multi-agent systems  multi-robot systems  navigation  path planning  robot programming  interaction-aware multiagent reinforcement learning  mobile agents  individual goals  optimal policy  decentralized learning  mobile robot navigation  policy gradient algorithms  nonstationary policies  curriculum-based strategy  interactive policy learning  Training  Robots  Games  Markov processes  Reinforcement learning  Navigation  Autonomous vehicles 
Abstract: In a multi-agent setting, the optimal policy of a single agent is largely dependent on the behavior of other agents. We investigate the problem of multi-agent reinforcement learning, focusing on decentralized learning in non-stationary domains for mobile robot navigation. We identify a cause for the difficulty in training non-stationary policies: mutual adaptation to sub-optimal behaviors, and we use this to motivate a curriculum-based strategy for learning interactive policies. The curriculum has two stages. First, the agent leverages policy gradient algorithms to learn a policy that is capable of achieving multiple goals. Second, the agent learns a modifier policy to learn how to interact with other agents in a multi-agent setting. We evaluated our approach on both an autonomous driving lane-change domain and a robot navigation domain.

Title: Coverage Control for Multiple Event Types with Heterogeneous Robots
Key Words: distributed algorithms  mobile robots  multi-robot systems  optimisation  continuous environments  discrete environments  locally optimal positions  density function  coverage control  multiple event types  heterogeneous robots  autonomous robots  total sensing quality  homogeneous problem  Robot sensing systems  Density functional theory  Distributed algorithms  Linear programming  Silicon 
Abstract: This paper focuses on the problem of deploying a set of autonomous robots to efficiently monitor multiple types of events in an environment. There is a density function over the environment for each event type representing the weighted likelihood of the event at each location. The robots are heterogeneous in that each robot is equipped with a set of sensors and it is capable of sensing a subset of event types. The objective is to deploy the robots in the environment to minimize a linear combination of the total sensing quality of the events. We propose a new formulation for the problem which is a natural extension of the homogeneous problem. We propose distributed algorithms that drive the robots to locally optimal positions in both continuous environments that are obstacle-free, and in discrete environments that may contain obstacles. In both cases we prove convergence to locally optimal positions. We provide extension to the case where the density functions are unknown prior to the deployment in continuous environments. Finally, we present benchmarking results and physical experiments to characterize the solution quality.

Title: Active Perception in Adversarial Scenarios using Maximum Entropy Deep Reinforcement Learning
Key Words: belief networks  entropy  learning (artificial intelligence)  multi-agent systems  neural nets  planning (artificial intelligence)  stochastic processes  partial observability  adversary agent  autonomous agent  belief space planning  generative adversary modeling  maximum entropy reinforcement learning  stochastic belief space policy  unmodeled adversarial strategies  maximum entropy deep reinforcement learning  active perception problem  potentially adversarial behaviors  uncertainty modeling  standard chance-constraint partially observable Markov decision  Uncertainty  Games  Autonomous agents  Reinforcement learning  Nash equilibrium  Planning  Adaptation models 
Abstract: We pose an active perception problem where an autonomous agent actively interacts with a second agent with potentially adversarial behaviors. Given the uncertainty in the intent of the other agent, the objective is to collect further evidence to help discriminate potential threats. The main technical challenges are the partial observability of the agent intent, the adversary modeling, and the corresponding uncertainty modeling. Note that an adversary agent may act to mislead the autonomous agent by using a deceptive strategy that is learned from past experiences. We propose an approach that combines belief space planning, generative adversary modeling, and maximum entropy reinforcement learning to obtain a stochastic belief space policy. By accounting for various adversarial behaviors in the simulation framework and minimizing the predictability of the autonomous agent's action, the resulting policy is more robust to unmodeled adversarial strategies. This improved robustness is empirically shown against an adversary that adapts to and exploits the autonomous agent's policy when compared with a standard Chance-Constraint Partially Observable Markov Decision Process robust approach.

Title: A Competitive Algorithm for Online Multi-Robot Exploration of a Translating Plume
Key Words: autonomous aerial vehicles  mobile robots  multi-robot systems  velocity control  arbitrary shape  plume shape  plume speed  robot speed  tour  aerial robots  translating plume  online multirobot exploration  competitive algorithm  Robot kinematics  Two dimensional displays  Approximation algorithms  Shape  Unmanned aerial vehicles  Binary trees 
Abstract: In this paper, we study the problem of exploring a translating plume with a team of aerial robots. The shape and the size of the plume are unknown to the robots. The objective is to find a tour for each robot such that they collectively explore the plume. Specifically, the tours must be such that each point in the plume must be visible from the field-of-view of some robot along its tour. We propose a recursive Depth-First Search (DFS)-based algorithm that yields a constant competitive ratio for the exploration problem. The competitive ratio is 2(Sr + Sp)(R+⌊log R⌋)/(Sr + Sp)(R+⌊log R⌋) where R is the number of robots, and Sr and Sp are the robot speed and the plume speed, respectively. We also consider a more realistic scenario where the plume shape is not restricted to grid cells but an arbitrary shape. We show our algorithm has 2(Sr + Sp)(18 R+⌊log R⌋)/(Sr + Sp)(1+⌊log R⌋) competitive ratio under the fat condition. We empirically verify our algorithm using simulations.

Title: Online Estimation of Ocean Current from Sparse GPS Data for Underwater Vehicles
Key Words: expectation-maximisation algorithm  Gaussian processes  Global Positioning System  mobile robots  position control  regression analysis  underwater vehicles  online estimation  Gaussian process-based expectation-maximisation algorithm  dead-reckoned position estimates  specialised GP regression scheme  best-fitting ocean  ocean current field  underwater vehicles  underwater robots  Oceans  Sea measurements  Current measurement  Global Positioning System  Trajectory  Estimation 
Abstract: Underwater robots are subject to position drift due to the effect of ocean currents and the lack of accurate localisation while submerged. We are interested in exploiting such position drift to estimate the ocean current in the surrounding area, thereby assisting navigation and planning. We present a Gaussian process (GP)-based expectation-maximisation (EM) algorithm that estimates the underlying ocean current using sparse GPS data obtained on the surface and dead-reckoned position estimates. We first develop a specialised GP regression scheme that exploits the incompressibility of ocean currents to counteract the underdetermined nature of the problem. We then use the proposed regression scheme in an EM algorithm that estimates the best-fitting ocean current in between each GPS fix. The proposed algorithm is validated in simulation and on a real dataset, and is shown to be capable of reconstructing the underlying ocean current field. We expect to use this algorithm to close the loop between planning and estimation for underwater navigation in unknown ocean currents.

Title: Working towards Adaptive Sensing for Terrain-aided Navigation
Key Words: adaptive signal processing  altimeters  autonomous underwater vehicles  Kalman filters  marine navigation  particle filtering (numerical methods)  sonar  underwater vehicles  velocity measurement  terrain-aided navigation  adaptive sensing method  pinging rate  localization accuracy  TAN  sonar pinging interval  local seafloor topography  modified Teager Kaiser energy operator  pinging interval  downward-looking sonar  autonomous underwater vehicle  particle filter  bias velocity estimator  Kalman filter  depth variation  Atmospheric measurements  Sea measurements  Particle measurements  Sonar navigation  Sensors  Sonar 
Abstract: An adaptive sensing method is presented to control the pinging interval of a downward-looking sonar on an Autonomous Underwater Vehicle. The goal is to conserve energy via adjusting the pinging rate automatically without reducing the localization accuracy when using terrain-aided navigation (TAN). In this paper, the TAN is implemented using a particle filter and a bias velocity estimator developed based on a Kalman filter. The adaptation on the sonar pinging interval is determined based on the depth variation of local seafloor topography which is quantified using a modified Teager Kaiser energy operator. As a result, more measurements are collected on high relief regions, and less measurements are obtained on relatively flat and smooth regions. We evaluated the adaptive sensing method in a simulated environment and applied it to a field data set. The results show that the adaptive sensing method produces an improved navigational accuracy compared to the missions with fixed sonar pinging rates. In the offline field missions, the energy consumed by the altimeter is reduced to about 30% in the adaptive sensing missions compared to continuously sensing missions where the altimeter is pinging consistently without switching off.

Title: Non-Gaussian SLAM utilizing Synthetic Aperture Sonar
Key Words: acoustic signal processing  array signal processing  graph theory  marine navigation  pose estimation  probability  sensor fusion  SLAM (robots)  synthetic aperture sonar  SLAM framework  beacon position  acoustic measurements  factor graph formulation  nonGaussian SLAM  spatial resolution  navigational measurements  underwater missions  synthetic aperture sonar  SAS  simultaneous localization and mapping  accurate pose estimation  hydrophones acoustic data  empirical probability distribution  conventional beamformer  autonomous surface vehicle  Acoustics  Synthetic aperture sonar  Array signal processing  Simultaneous localization and mapping  Apertures  Receivers  Sonar navigation 
Abstract: Synthetic Aperture Sonar (SAS) is a technique to improve the spatial resolution from a moving set of receivers by extending the array in time, increasing the effective array length and aperture. This technique is limited by the accuracy of the receiver position estimates, necessitating highly accurate, typically expensive aided-inertial navigation systems for submerged platforms. We leverage simultaneous localization and mapping to fuse acoustic and navigational measurements and obtain accurate pose estimates even without the benefit of absolute positioning for lengthy underwater missions. We demonstrate a method of formulating the well-known SAS problem in a SLAM framework, using acoustic data from hydrophones to simultaneously estimate platform and beacon position. An empirical probability distribution is computed from a conventional beamformer to correctly account for uncertainty in the acoustic measurements. The non-parametric method relieves the familiar Gaussian-only assumption currently used in the localization and mapping discipline and fits effectively into a factor graph formulation with conventional factors such as ground-truth priors and odometry. We present results from field experiments performed on the Charles River with an autonomous surface vehicle which demonstrate simultaneous localization of an unknown acoustic beacon and vehicle positioning, and provide comparison to GPS ground truths.

Title: Easily Deployable Underwater Acoustic Navigation System for Multi-Vehicle Environmental Sampling Applications
Key Words: autonomous underwater vehicles  inertial navigation  lakes  mobile robots  path planning  underwater acoustic communication  clock synchronization  underwater robotics  autonomous underwater vehicles  GNSS  Lake Geneva  feature tracking  adaptive sampling  underwater environmental sensing  electromagnetic waves  radio communication  satellite based positioning  aerial robotics  multivehicle environmental sampling applications  acoustic navigation system  absolute time information  AUV position  underwater acoustic positioning system  inertial navigation  Acoustics  Global navigation satellite system  Acoustic measurements  Receivers  Clocks  Robot sensing systems 
Abstract: Water as a medium poses a number of challenges for robots, limiting the progress of research in underwater robotics vis-á-vis ground or aerial robotics. The primary challenges are satellite based positioning and radio communication being unusable due to high attenuation of electromagnetic waves in water. We have developed miniature, agile, easy to carry and deploy Autonomous Underwater Vehicles (AUVs) equipped with a suite of sensors for underwater environmental sensing. We previously demonstrated adaptive sampling and feature tracking, and gathered data from a lake for limnological research, with the AUV performing inertial navigation. In this paper, we demonstrate a new underwater acoustic positioning system, which allows on-board estimation of AUV position. Our system uses absolute time information from GNSS for initial clock synchronization and uses one-way-travel-time for range measurements, which makes it scalable in the number of robots. It is easily deployable and does not rely on any installed infrastructure in the environment. We describe various hardware and software components of our system, and present results from experiments in Lake Geneva.

Title: Underwater Terrain Reconstruction from Forward-Looking Sonar Imagery
Key Words: feature extraction  Gaussian processes  graph theory  image reconstruction  mobile robots  remotely operated vehicles  SLAM (robots)  sonar imaging  terrain mapping  underwater vehicles  terrain reconstruction  forward-looking sonar imagery  underwater simultaneous localization  multibeam imaging sonar  3D terrain mapping tasks  elevation angle information  data association  accurate 3D mapping  Euclidean space  optical flow  bearing-range images  subsea terrain  Gaussian Process random field  terrain factors  factor graph  terrain elevation estimate  variable-elevation tank environment  smooth height estimate  sonar images  Chow-Liu tree  extracted feature tracking  Feature extraction  Sonar measurements  Simultaneous localization and mapping  Three-dimensional displays  Gaussian processes  Imaging 
Abstract: In this paper, we propose a novel approach for underwater simultaneous localization and mapping using a multibeam imaging sonar for 3D terrain mapping tasks. The high levels of noise and the absence of elevation angle information in sonar images present major challenges for data association and accurate 3D mapping. Instead of repeatedly projecting extracted features into Euclidean space, we apply optical flow within bearing-range images for tracking extracted features. To deal with degenerate cases, such as when tracking is interrupted by noise, we model the subsea terrain as a Gaussian Process random field on a Chow-Liu tree. Terrain factors are incorporated into the factor graph, aimed at smoothing the terrain elevation estimate. We demonstrate the performance of our proposed algorithm in a simulated environment, which shows that terrain factors effectively reduce estimation error. We also show ROV experiments performed in a variable-elevation tank environment, where we are able to construct a descriptive and smooth height estimate of the tank bottom.

Title: Detect in RGB, Optimize in Edge: Accurate 6D Pose Estimation for Texture-less Industrial Parts
Key Words: convolutional neural nets  edge detection  image colour analysis  manipulators  object recognition  pose estimation  robot vision  texture-less industrial parts  robotic bin-picking problem  industrial applications  single RGB image  discriminative local appearance descriptors  optimization stage  coarse initializations  surface texture  edge image  edge optimization  accurate 6D object pose estimation  2D bounding box  tiny convolutional neural network  hypothesis-evaluation scheme  robotic manipulation platform  Conferences  Automation 
Abstract: In order to solve robotic bin-picking problem in many industrial applications, accurate 6D object pose estimation is one of fundamental technologies. This paper presents a method for accurate 6D pose estimation from a single RGB image for texture-less industrial parts. These objects are common but still challenging to deal with, due to the fact that poor surface texture and brightness makes difficult to compute discriminative local appearance descriptors. The proposed method mainly consists of two stages, which ranges from the detection stage to the optimization stage. Firstly, all known objects in the RGB image are detected with 2D bounding box via a tiny convolutional neural network. Then, the second stage will optimize the 6D pose in the Edge image given several coarse initializations. These coarse initializations are generated from the Edge image via a hypothesis-evaluation scheme. Furthermore, the proposed method is validated by achieving state-of-the-art results of texture-less industrial parts for RGB input. According to practical experiments, the proposed method is accurate and robust enough to be applied on the robotic manipulation platform to complete a simple assembly task.

Title: POSEAMM: A Unified Framework for Solving Pose Problems using an Alternating Minimization Method
Key Words: computer vision  minimisation  pose estimation  alternating minimization method  pose estimation  computer vision  camera models  pose problem  objective function  simple minimization problem  distinct pose problems  alternating minimization methods  pose problems  Cameras  Linear programming  Three-dimensional displays  Optimization  Minimization methods  Computer vision 
Abstract: Pose estimation is one of the most important problems in computer vision. It can be divided in two different categories - absolute and relative - and may involve two different types of camera models: central and non-central. State-of-the-art methods have been designed to solve separately these problems. This paper presents a unified framework that is able to solve any pose problem by alternating optimization techniques between two set of parameters, rotation and translation. In order to make this possible, it is necessary to define an objective function that captures the problem at hand. Since the objective function will depend on the rotation and translation it is not possible to solve it as a simple minimization problem. Hence the use of Alternating Minimization methods, in which the function will be alternatively minimized with respect to the rotation and the translation. We show how to use our framework in three distinct pose problems. Our methods are then benchmarked with both synthetic and real data, showing their better balance between computational time and accuracy.

Title: Learning Object Localization and 6D Pose Estimation from Simulation and Weakly Labeled Real Images
Key Words: image annotation  image classification  image segmentation  object detection  pose estimation  robot vision  unsupervised learning  6D pose estimation  computer vision models  object localization  multiple domain classifiers  synthetic images  object poses  time-consuming annotations  occluded scenes  cluttered scenes  weak object detector  deep learning approaches  cluttered environments  robust robotic grasping  Feature extraction  Pose estimation  Training  Robots  Heating systems  Solid modeling  Task analysis 
Abstract: Accurate pose estimation is often a requirement for robust robotic grasping and manipulation of objects placed in cluttered, tight environments, such as a shelf with multiple objects. When deep learning approaches are employed to perform this task, they typically require a large amount of training data. However, obtaining precise 6 degrees of freedom for ground-truth can be prohibitively expensive. This work therefore proposes an architecture and a training process to solve this issue. More precisely, we present a weak object detector that enables localizing objects and estimating their 6D poses in cluttered and occluded scenes. To minimize the human labor required for annotations, the proposed detector is trained with a combination of synthetic and a few weakly annotated real images (as little as 10 images per object), for which a human provides only a list of objects present in each image (no time-consuming annotations, such as bounding boxes, segmentation masks and object poses). To close the gap between real and synthetic images, we use multiple domain classifiers trained adversarially. During the inference phase, the resulting class-specific heatmaps of the weak detector are used to guide the search of 6D poses of objects. Our proposed approach is evaluated on several publicly available datasets for pose estimation. We also evaluated our model on classification and localization in unsupervised and semi-supervised settings. The results clearly indicate that this approach could provide an efficient way toward fully automating the training process of computer vision models used in robotics.

Title: STAMPEDE: A Discrete-Optimization Method for Solving Pathwise-Inverse Kinematics
Key Words: collision avoidance  dynamic programming  end effectors  graph theory  manipulator kinematics  motion control  nonlinear programming  search problems  trajectory control  adaptive sampling  search-space  input end-effector trace  nonlinear trajectory-optimization approach  discrete-optimization method  joint-angles  robot motion translation problem  discrete-space graph-search problem  nonlinear optimization  dynamic-programming algorithm  configuration space  diversity sampling  robot arm trajectories  Stampede  end-effector path function  pathwise-inverse kinematics  per-frame inverse kinematics  collision-free robot motions  6-DOF Cartesian-space end-effector paths  End effectors  Kinematics  Robot motion  Planning  Trajectory 
Abstract: We present a discrete-optimization technique for finding feasible robot arm trajectories that pass through provided 6-DOF Cartesian-space end-effector paths with high accuracy, a problem called pathwise-inverse kinematics. The output from our method consists of a path function of joint-angles that best follows the provided end-effector path function, given some definition of “best”. Our method, called Stampede, casts the robot motion translation problem as a discrete-space graph-search problem where the nodes in the graph are individually solved for using non-linear optimization; framing the problem in such a way gives rise to a well-structured graph that affords an effective best path calculation using an efficient dynamic-programming algorithm. We present techniques for sampling configuration space, such as diversity sampling and adaptive sampling, to construct the search-space in the graph. Through an evaluation, we show that our approach performs well in finding smooth, feasible, collision-free robot motions that match the input end-effector trace with very high accuracy, while alternative approaches, such as a state-of-the-art per-frame inverse kinematics solver and a global non-linear trajectory-optimization approach, performed unfavorably.

Title: Reconstructing Human Hand Pose and Configuration using a Fixed-Base Exoskeleton
Key Words: augmented reality  biomechanics  biomedical MRI  image reconstruction  medical image processing  medical robotics  telemedicine  telerobotics  virtual reality  augmented reality  teleoperation  virtual reality  force-feedback  motion capture  MRI data  fixed-base hand exoskeleton  joint angles  dexterous haptic input device  fixed-base exoskeleton  human hand pose  Exoskeletons  Kinematics  Thumb  Robot kinematics  Magnetic resonance imaging  Manipulators 
Abstract: Accurate real-time estimation of the pose and configuration of the human hand attached to a dexterous haptic input device is crucial to improve the interaction possibilities for teleoperation and in virtual and augmented reality. In this paper, we present an approach to reconstruct the pose of the human hand and the joint angles of the fingers when wearing a novel fixed-base (grounded) hand exoskeleton. Using a kinematic model of the human hand built from MRI data, we can reconstruct the hand pose and joint angles without sensors on the human hand, from attachment points on the first three fingers and the palm. We test the accuracy of our approach using motion capture as a ground truth. This reconstruction can be used to determine contact geometry and force-feedback from virtual or remote objects in virtual reality or teleoperation.

Title: Learning Pose Estimation for High-Precision Robotic Assembly Using Simulated Depth Images
Key Words: CAD  cameras  convolutional neural nets  end effectors  industrial manipulators  learning (artificial intelligence)  pose estimation  production engineering computing  robot vision  robotic assembly  3D CAD models  depth camera  deep convolutional neural networks  industrial robotic assembly tasks  depth images  pose estimation learning  two-stage pose estimation procedure  end-effector  Conferences  Automation 
Abstract: Most of industrial robotic assembly tasks today require fixed initial conditions for successful assembly. These constraints induce high production costs and low adaptability to new tasks. In this work we aim towards flexible and adaptable robotic assembly by using 3D CAD models for all parts to be assembled. We focus on a generic assembly task - the Siemens Innovation Challenge - in which a robot needs to assemble a gear-like mechanism with high precision into an operating system. To obtain the millimeter-accuracy required for this task and industrial settings alike, we use a depth camera mounted near the robot's end-effector. We present a high-accuracy two-stage pose estimation procedure based on deep convolutional neural networks, which includes detection, pose estimation, refinement, and handling of near- and full symmetries of parts. The networks are trained on simulated depth images with means to ensure successful transfer to the real robot. We obtain an average pose estimation error of 2.16 millimeters and 0.64 degree leading to 91% success rate for robotic assembly of randomly distributed parts. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first time that the Siemens Innovation Challenge is fully addressed, with all the parts assembled with high success rates.

Title: Aided Inertial Navigation: Unified Feature Representations and Observability Analysis
Key Words: inertial navigation  Jacobian matrices  Monte Carlo methods  observability  global yaw rotation  line features  closest point parameterization  observability properties  unified representations  closest point form  unified parameterizations  CP representations  EKF-based vision-aided INS  geometrical features  unified feature representations  aided inertial navigation systems  homogeneous geometric features  general aided INS  linearized aided INS  minimal representation  observability analysis  4D Euclidean vector  analytically-computed Jacobians  Monte-Carlo simulations  Observability  Quaternions  Jacobian matrices  Noise measurement  Pollution measurement  Three-dimensional displays  Q measurement 
Abstract: Extending our recent work [1] that focuses on the observability analysis of aided inertial navigation systems (INS) using homogeneous geometric features including points, lines and planes, in this paper, we complete the analysis for the general aided INS using different combinations of geometric features (i.e., points, lines and planes). We analytically show that the linearized aided INS with different feature combinations generally possesses the same observability properties as those with same features, i.e., 4 unobservable directions, corresponding to the global yaw rotation and the global position of the sensor platform. During the analysis, we particularly propose a novel minimal representation of line features, i.e., the “closest point” parameterization, which uses a 4D Euclidean vector to describe a line and is proved to preserve the same observability properties. Based on that, for the first time, we provide two sets of unified representations for points, lines and planes, i.e., the quaternion form and the closest point (CP) form, and perform extensive observability analysis with analytically-computed Jacobians for these unified parameterizations. We validate the proposed CP representations and observability analysis with Monte-Carlo simulations, in which EKF-based vision-aided INS (VINS) with combinations of geometrical features in CP form are developed and compared.

Title: A Linear-Complexity EKF for Visual-Inertial Navigation with Loop Closures
Key Words: computational complexity  correlation methods  inertial navigation  Kalman filters  mobile robots  nonlinear filters  robot vision  SLAM (robots)  Schmidt-MSCKF  real-time visual-inertial navigation  bounded-error performance  robotic applications  visual-inertial localization  loop closure constraints  long-term persistent navigation  Schmidt-Kalman formulation  multistate constraint Kalman filter framework  state vector  linear-complexity EKF  cross-correlations  navigation states  computational complexity  performance improvement  Navigation  Microsoft Windows  Standards  Current measurement  Real-time systems  Trajectory  Three-dimensional displays 
Abstract: Enabling real-time visual-inertial navigation in unknown environments while achieving bounded-error performance holds great potentials in robotic applications. To this end, in this paper, we propose a novel linear-complexity EKF for visual-inertial localization, which can efficiently utilize loop closure constraints, thus allowing for long-term persistent navigation. The key idea is to adapt the Schmidt-Kalman formulation within the multi-state constraint Kalman filter (MSCKF) framework, in which we selectively include keyframes as nuisance parameters in the state vector for loop closures but do not update their estimates and covariance in order to save computations while still tracking their cross-correlations with the current navigation states. As a result, the proposed Schmidt-MSCKF has only O(n) computational complexity while still incorporating loop closures into the system. The proposed approach is validated extensively on large-scale real-world experiments, showing significant performance improvements when compared to the standard MSCKF, while only incurring marginal computational overhead.

Title: Sensor-Failure-Resilient Multi-IMU Visual-Inertial Navigation
Key Words: calibration  inertial navigation  sensor fusion  sensor-failure-resilient multiIMU visual-inertial navigation  real-time multiIMU visual-inertial navigation system  multiple inertial measurement units  mi-VINS formulation  auxiliary sensors  base IMU failure  sensor failure  conventional VINS  multiple IMUs  Calibration  Cameras  Robot sensing systems  Navigation  Covariance matrices  Fuses  Visualization 
Abstract: In this paper, we present a real-time multi-IMU visual-inertial navigation system (mi-VINS) that utilizes the information from multiple inertial measurement units (IMUs) and thus is resilient to IMU sensor failures. In particular, in the proposed mi-VINS formulation, one of the IMUs serves as the “base” of the system, while the rest act as auxiliary sensors aiding in state estimation. A key advantage of this architecture is the ability to seamlessly “promote” an auxiliary IMU as a new base, for example, upon detection of the base IMU failure, thus being resilient to the single point of sensor failure as seen in conventional VINS. Moreover, in order to properly fuse the information of multiple IMUs, both the spatial (relative pose) and temporal (time offset) calibration parameters between each sensor and the base IMU are estimated online. The proposed miVINS with online spatial and temporal calibration is validated in both simulations and real-world experiments, and is shown to be able to provide accurate localization and calibration even in scenarios with IMU sensor failures.

Title: Learning Monocular Visual Odometry through Geometry-Aware Curriculum Learning
Key Words: distance measurement  image sequences  learning (artificial intelligence)  pose estimation  recurrent neural nets  regression analysis  windowed composition layer  CL-VO  learning monocular visual odometry  optical flow network  geometry-aware objective function  complex geometry problems  geometry-aware Curriculum Learning  Training  Geometry  Cameras  Task analysis  Estimation  Feature extraction  Optical fiber networks 
Abstract: Inspired by the cognitive process of humans and animals, Curriculum Learning (CL) trains a model by gradually increasing the difficulty of the training data. In this paper, we study whether CL can be applied to complex geometry problems like estimating monocular Visual Odometry (VO). Unlike existing CL approaches, we present a novel CL strategy for learning the geometry of monocular VO by gradually making the learning objective more difficult during training. To this end, we propose a novel geometry-aware objective function by jointly optimizing relative and composite transformations over small windows via bounded pose regression loss. A cascade optical flow network followed by recurrent network with a differentiable windowed composition layer, termed CL-VO, is devised to learn the proposed objective. Evaluation on three real-world datasets shows superior performance of CL-VO over state-of-the-art feature-based and learning-based VO.

Title: Visual-Odometric Localization and Mapping for Ground Vehicles Using SE(2)-XYZ Constraints
Key Words: feature extraction  graph theory  mobile robots  motion control  object detection  path planning  road vehicles  robot vision  ground vehicle  odometric sensors  monocular visual sensors  stochastic constraint  odometric measurement processing  visual-odometric localization  mapping system  out-of SE(2) motion perturbation  SE(2)-XYZ constraint  image feature measurement  preintegration algorithm  graph optimization structure  Visualization  Optimization  Land vehicles  Perturbation methods  Robots  Jacobian matrices  Sensors 
Abstract: This paper focuses on the localization and mapping problem on ground vehicles using odometric and monocular visual sensors. To improve the accuracy of vision based estimation on ground vehicles, researchers have exploited the constraint of approximately planar motion, and usually implemented it as a stochastic constraint on an SE(3) pose. In this paper, we propose a simpler algorithm that directly parameterizes the ground vehicle poses on SE(2). The out-of SE(2) motion perturbations are not neglected, but incorporated into an integrated noise term of a novel SE(2)-XYZ constraint, which associates an SE(2) pose and a 3D landmark via the image feature measurement. For odometric measurement processing, we also propose an efficient preintegration algorithm on SE(2). Utilizing these constraints, a complete visual-odometric localization and mapping system is developed, in a commonly used graph optimization structure. Its superior performance in accuracy and robustness is validated by real-world experiments in industrial indoor environments.

Title: Keyframe-based Direct Thermal–Inertial Odometry
Key Words: cameras  distance measurement  Global Positioning System  inertial navigation  measurement errors  mobile robots  optimisation  path planning  radiometry  sensor fusion  temperature measurement  temperature sensors  keyframe-based direct thermal-inertial odometry  thermal camera  inertial measurements  airborne obscurants  fog  smoke  optimization based approach  inertial measurement errors  GPS  direct radiometric data fusion  aerial robotic capabilities  visually degraded environments  reprojection error minimisation  3D landmark error  indoor laboratory setting  underground mine  Cameras  Robot vision systems  Radiometry  Estimation  Unmanned aerial vehicles  Optimization 
Abstract: This paper proposes an approach for fusing direct radiometric data from a thermal camera with inertial measurements to extend the robotic capabilities of aerial robots for navigation in GPS-denied and visually degraded environments in the conditions of darkness and in the presence of airborne obscurants such as dust, fog and smoke. An optimization based approach is developed that jointly minimizes the re-projection error of 3D landmarks and inertial measurement errors. The developed solution is extensively verified against both ground-truth in an indoor laboratory setting, as well as inside an underground mine under severely visually degraded conditions.

Title: On Parameter Estimation of Space Manipulator Systems with Flexible Joints Using the Energy Balance*
Key Words: aerospace robotics  damping  flexible manipulators  manipulator dynamics  mobile robots  motion control  parameter estimation  path planning  manipulators  joint flexibilities  path planning  tracking capabilities  system inertial parameters  damping parameters  space flexible-joint manipulator system  system full dynamics  space manipulator systems  flexible joints  stiffness parameters  parameter estimation  Mathematical model  Space vehicles  Manipulator dynamics  Parameter estimation  Damping  Estimation 
Abstract: The parameter estimation of space manipulator systems on orbit is studied, whose manipulators are subject to joint flexibilities. To improve path planning and tracking capabilities, advanced control strategies that benefit from the knowledge of system parameters are required. These parameters include the system inertial parameters as well as the stiffness and damping parameters, which describe joint flexibilities. During operation some of these parameters may change or be unknown. Estimation methods based on the equations of motion are sensitive to noise, while methods based on the angular momentum conservation, while they are tolerant to noise, they cannot estimate the parameters that describe joint flexibilities. A parameter estimation method, based on the energy balance, applied during the motion of a space flexible-joint manipulator system in the free-floating mode, is developed. The method is tolerant to noise and can reconstruct the system full dynamics. It is shown that the parameters estimated by the proposed method can describe the system dynamics fully. The application of the developed method is valid for spatial systems; it is illustrated by a planar 7 degrees of freedom (DoF) example system.

Title: Central Pattern Generators Control of Momentum Driven Compliant Structures
Key Words: actuators  legged locomotion  motion control  optimisation  robot dynamics  co-evolved structures  control-only optimized equivalent  MDS  inertially actuated units  compliant elements  control method  bio-inspired concept  compliance distribution  locomotion performance  population based optimization techniques  momentum driven compliant structures  central pattern generator control  hardware complexity  CPG  rough environment exploration  Robots  Torque  Three-dimensional displays  Complexity theory  Generators  Aerospace electronics  Space exploration 
Abstract: We introduce the concept of Momentum Driven Structures (MDS) made of inertially actuated units linked together by compliant elements as a potential solution for rough environments exploration. We propose a control method for MDS based on the bio-inspired concept of Central Pattern Generator (CPG) and study in simulation the impact of compliance distribution on locomotion performance using population based optimization techniques. Our results suggest that compliant structures outperform their rigid counterparts in terms of distance traveled. In addition, we show that co-evolved structures perform only marginally better than their control-only optimized equivalent, highlighting the fact that compliance modulation may not be a significant asset in such experiments, considering the related hardware complexity it introduces.

Title: Contact-Event-Triggered Mode Estimation for Dynamic Rigid Body Impedance-Controlled Capture
Key Words: aerospace robotics  force control  mobile robots  particle filtering (numerical methods)  position control  sensors  contact-event-triggered mode estimation  dynamic rigid body impedance-controlled capture  contact-event-triggered filter  impedance control  particle filter  sliding contact mode cases  force-torque sensor  air bearing robotic system  time 8.3 ms  time 4.2 ms  Robot sensing systems  Estimation  Collision avoidance  Impedance  Robot kinematics  Computational modeling 
Abstract: This paper presents a contact-event-triggered filter using only a force-torque sensor with impedance control for non-cooperative, rotating, heavy object capture. Contact events are modeled for prediction, and detected to trigger the particle filter's updating process. By combining these features, a computationally efficient, contact-event-triggered filter is proposed. For our purpose of capture using impedance control, expected contact events, collisions and sliding are defined for prediction and detection. This novel method is implemented in an air bearing robotic system, and has demonstrated its superiority with the highest success rate (100%) for sliding contact mode cases, whereas the previous method could only yield a success rate of 87.9%. The computation resource is demonstrated to be limited, with a computation time of 4.2 milliseconds on average and 8.3 milliseconds at worst.

Title: Leveraging Contact Forces for Learning to Grasp
Key Words: grippers  learning (artificial intelligence)  manipulators  grasp acquisition  model-free deep reinforcement learning  control policies  contact sensing  robust grasping  multifingered hand  complex finger coordination  learned policies  grasping policies  contact feedback  open problem  robotics research  noisy observations  sensor feedback  visual feedback  contact forces  Grasping  Robot sensing systems  Uncertainty  Visualization  Grippers 
Abstract: Grasping objects under uncertainty remains an open problem in robotics research. This uncertainty is often due to noisy or partial observations of the object pose or shape. To enable a robot to react appropriately to unforeseen effects, it is crucial that it continuously takes sensor feedback into account. While visual feedback is important for inferring a grasp pose and reaching for an object, contact feedback offers valuable information during manipulation and grasp acquisition. In this paper, we use model-free deep reinforcement learning to synthesize control policies that exploit contact sensing to generate robust grasping under uncertainty. We demonstrate our approach on a multi-fingered hand that exhibits more complex finger coordination than the commonly used two-fingered grippers. We conduct extensive experiments in order to assess the performance of the learned policies, with and without contact sensing. While it is possible to learn grasping policies without contact sensing, our results suggest that contact feedback allows for a significant improvement of grasping robustness under object pose uncertainty and for objects with a complex shape.

Title: Learning Latent Space Dynamics for Tactile Servoing
Key Words: dexterous manipulators  feedback  haptic interfaces  learning (artificial intelligence)  mobile robots  tactile sensors  tactile servoing  tactile sensing information  tactile skin geometry  tactile finger  dexterous robotic manipulation  tactile feedback capability  latent space dynamics learning  contact point tracking  manifold learning  Robot sensing systems  Skin  Aerospace electronics  Two dimensional displays  Three-dimensional displays 
Abstract: To achieve a dexterous robotic manipulation, we need to endow our robot with tactile feedback capability, i.e. the ability to drive action based on tactile sensing. In this paper, we specifically address the challenge of tactile servoing, i.e. given the current tactile sensing and a target/goal tactile sensing - memorized from a successful task execution in the past - what is the action that will bring the current tactile sensing to move closer towards the target tactile sensing at the next time step. We develop a data-driven approach to acquire a dynamics model for tactile servoing by learning from demonstration. Moreover, our method represents the tactile sensing information as to lie on a surface - or a 2D manifold - and perform a manifold learning, making it applicable to any tactile skin geometry. We evaluate our method on a contact point tracking task using a robot equipped with a tactile finger.

Title: PointNetGPD: Detecting Grasp Configurations from Point Sets
Key Words: computational geometry  feature extraction  grippers  image colour analysis  learning (artificial intelligence)  PointNetGPD  end-to-end grasp evaluation  object grasping  3D point cloud  grasp configuration detection  point sets  robot grasp configurations  complex geometric structure  gripper  3D geometry information  deep neural network  RGB-D camera  Three-dimensional displays  Robot sensing systems  Measurement  Grippers  Grasping  Solid modeling  Geometry 
Abstract: In this paper, we propose an end-to-end grasp evaluation model to address the challenging problem of localizing robot grasp configurations directly from the point cloud. Compared to recent grasp evaluation metrics that are based on handcrafted depth features and a convolutional neural network (CNN), our proposed PointNetGPD is lightweight and can directly process the 3D point cloud that locates within the gripper for grasp evaluation. Taking the raw point cloud as input, our proposed grasp evaluation network can capture the complex geometric structure of the contact area between the gripper and the object even if the point cloud is very sparse. To further improve our proposed model, we generate a large-scale grasp dataset with 350k real point cloud and grasps with the YCB object set for training. The performance of the proposed model is quantitatively measured both in simulation and on robotic hardware. Experiments on object grasping and clutter removal show that our proposed model generalizes well to novel objects and outperforms state-of-the-art methods. Code and video are available at https://lianghongzhuo.github.io/PointNetGPD.

Title: Learning Deep Visuomotor Policies for Dexterous Hand Manipulation
Key Words: dexterous manipulators  learning (artificial intelligence)  tactile sensors  touch sensing information  expert demonstration trajectories  high dimensional visual observations  manipulation tasks  imitation learning  on-board sensors  tactile sensors  external tracking  on-board sensing capabilities  in-hand manipulation  multifingered dexterous hands  dexterous hand manipulation  deep visuomotor policies  Task analysis  Visualization  Training  Tactile sensors 
Abstract: Multi-fingered dexterous hands are versatile and capable of acquiring a diverse set of skills such as grasping, in-hand manipulation, and tool use. To fully utilize their versatility in real-world scenarios, we require algorithms and policies that can control them using on-board sensing capabilities, without relying on external tracking or motion capture systems. Cameras and tactile sensors are the most widely used on-board sensors that do not require instrumentation of the world. In this work, we demonstrate an imitation learning based approach to train deep visuomotor policies for a variety of manipulation tasks with a simulated five fingered dexterous hand. These policies directly control the hand using high dimensional visual observations of the world and propreoceptive observations from the robot, and can be trained efficiently with a few hundred expert demonstration trajectories. We also find that using touch sensing information enables faster learning and better asymptotic performance for tasks with high degree of occlusions. Video demonstration of our results are available at: https://sites.google.com/view/hand-vil/.

Title: Learning to Identify Object Instances by Touch: Tactile Recognition via Multimodal Matching
Key Words: image recognition  object recognition  tactile sensors  visual modality  global observation  robotic manipulation  visual object identification  touch-based instance recognition  multimodal recognition  visual observation  tactile observation  multimodal instance recognition problem  GelSight touch sensors  autonomous data collection procedure  tactile observations  tactile recognition  robotic perception  Visualization  Cameras  Grippers  Tactile sensors  Data collection 
Abstract: Much of the literature on robotic perception focuses on the visual modality. Vision provides a global observation of a scene, making it broadly useful. However, in the domain of robotic manipulation, vision alone can sometimes prove inadequate: in the presence of occlusions or poor lighting, visual object identification might be difficult. The sense of touch can provide robots with an alternative mechanism for recognizing objects. In this paper, we study the problem of touch-based instance recognition. We propose a novel framing of the problem as multi-modal recognition: the goal of our system is to recognize, given a visual and tactile observation, whether or not these observations correspond to the same object. To our knowledge, our work is the first to address this type of multi-modal instance recognition problem on such a large-scale with our analysis spanning 98 different objects. We employ a robot equipped with two GelSight touch sensors, one on each finger, and a self-supervised, autonomous data collection procedure to collect a dataset of tactile observations and images. Our experimental results show that it is possible to accurately recognize object instances by touch alone, including instances of novel objects that were never seen during training. Our learned model outperforms other methods on this complex task, including that of human volunteers.

Title: Dexterous Manipulation with Deep Reinforcement Learning: Efficient, General, and Low-Cost
Key Words: control engineering computing  dexterous manipulators  learning (artificial intelligence)  neural nets  robot programming  deep reinforcement learning  multifingered hands  contact-rich manipulation behavior  model-free deep RL algorithms  complex multifingered manipulation skills  direct deep RL training  model-based control  dexterous manipulation  dexterous multifingered robotic hands  general-purpose robotic manipulators  autonomous control  complex intermittent contact interactions  Task analysis  Valves  Acceleration  Reinforcement learning  Robot sensing systems  Hardware 
Abstract: Dexterous multi-fingered robotic hands can perform a wide range of manipulation skills, making them an appealing component for general-purpose robotic manipulators. However, such hands pose a major challenge for autonomous control, due to the high dimensionality of their configuration space and complex intermittent contact interactions. In this work, we propose deep reinforcement learning (deep RL) as a scalable solution for learning complex, contact rich behaviors with multi-fingered hands. Deep RL provides an end-to-end approach to directly map sensor readings to actions, without the need for task specific models or policy classes. We show that contact-rich manipulation behavior with multi-fingered hands can be learned by directly training with model-free deep RL algorithms in the real world, with minimal additional assumption and without the aid of simulation. We learn to perform a variety of tasks on two different low-cost hardware platforms entirely from scratch, and further study how the learning can be accelerated by using a small number of human demonstrations. Our experiments demonstrate that complex multi-fingered manipulation skills can be learned in the real world in about 4-7 hours for most tasks, and that demonstrations can decrease this to 2-3 hours, indicating that direct deep RL training in the real world is a viable and practical alternative to simulation and model-based control. https:// sites.google.com/view/deeprl-handmanipulation.

Title: Inkjet Printable Actuators and Sensors for Soft-bodied Crawling Robots
Key Words: actuators  angular measurement  ink jet printing  mobile robots  nanoparticles  nonlinear control systems  plastics  silver  temperature measurement  temperature sensors  thin film sensors  all-printed paper caterpillar robots  inkjet printable actuator  rigid sensor-actuators  soft-bodied crawling robot design  nanoparticle ink printing  flexible plastic film  bending sensors  thermal based actuators  home-commodity inkjet printers  Actuators  Heating systems  Ink  Silver  Robot sensing systems 
Abstract: Soft-bodied robots are getting attention from researchers as their potential in designing compliant and adaptive robots. However, soft-bodied robots also pose many challenges not only in non-linear controlling but also in design and fabrication. Especially, the non-compatibility between soft materials and rigid sensors/actuators makes it more difficult to design a fully compliant soft-bodied robot. In this paper, we propose an all-printed sensor and actuator for designing soft-bodied robots by printing silver nano-particle ink on top of a flexible plastic film. We can print bending sensors and thermal based actuators instantly with home-commodity inkjet printers without any pre/post-processing. We exemplify the application of this fabrication method with an all-printed paper caterpillar robots which can inch forward and sense its body bending angle.

Title: Design and Evaluation of an Energy-Saving Drive for a Versatile Robotic Gripper
Key Words: actuators  dexterous manipulators  energy conservation  energy consumption  grippers  motion control  path planning  energy-saving drive  robotic grippers  energy consumption  energy-savings  energy-neutral grippers  robotic energy-efficient drive  grip performance metric  nonbackdrivable mechanism  statically balanced force amplifier  SBFA  NBDM  Grippers  Force  Measurement  Robots  Energy consumption  Task analysis  Springs 
Abstract: The main task of robotic grippers, holding an object, does not require work theoretically. Yet grippers consume significant amounts of energy in practice. This paper presents an approach for designing an energy-saving drive for robotic grippers employing a Statically Balanced Force Amplifier (SBFA) and a Non-backdrivable mechanism (NBDM). A novel metric (Grip Performance Metric) to systematically evaluate drives regarding their energy consumption, is used in the design phase; afterwards, the realization and testing of a prototype (REED, Robotic Energy-Efficient Drive) are presented. Results show that the actuation force can be reduced by 92%, resulting in energy-savings of 86% for an example task. This shows the potential of drives based on SBFAs and NBDMs to achieve energy-neutral grippers.

Title: Generative Deformation: Procedural Perforation for Elastic Structures
Key Words: deformation  elasticity  finite element analysis  solid modelling  stress analysis  three-dimensional printing  generative deformation  procedural perforation  elastic structures  procedural generation  controlling designing 3D printed deformable object behaviors  generative algorithms  cohesive process  variable elasticity  automated method  simulated deformations  cohesive pipeline model  volumetric structures  stress analysis  consumer-level 3D printers  finite element analysis metrics  elastic 3D prints  design objectives  elastic material behaviors  heterogeneous geometric structure  3D print deformations  automated pipeline  design environment  perforated deformation models  heterogeneous lattice structures  automated generation  3D print procedure  elastic material capabilities  Three-dimensional displays  Strain  Deformable models  Stress  Pipelines  Solid modeling  Printers 
Abstract: Procedural generation of elastic structures provides the fundamental basis for controlling and designing 3D printed deformable object behaviors. The automation through generative algorithms provides flexibility in how design and functionality can be seamlessly integrated into a cohesive process that generates 3D prints with variable elasticity. Generative deformation introduces an automated method for perforating existing volumetric structures, promoting simulated deformations, and integrating stress analysis into a cohesive pipeline model that can be used with existing consumer-level 3D printers with elastic material capabilities. In this work, we present a consolidated implementation of the design, simulate, refine, and 3D print procedure based on the automated generation of heterogeneous lattice structures. We utilize Finite Element Analysis (FEA) metrics to generate perforated deformation models that adhere to deformation behaviors created within our design environment. We present the core algorithms, automated pipeline, and 3D print deformations of various objects. Quantitative results illustrate how the heterogeneous geometric structure can influence elastic material behaviors towards design objectives. Our method provides an automated open-source tool for quickly prototyping elastic 3D prints.

Title: Robotics Education and Research at Scale: A Remotely Accessible Robotics Development Platform
Key Words: control engineering computing  educational robots  laboratories  learning (artificial intelligence)  mobile robots  research and development  telerobotics  remotely accessible robotics development platform  KUKA Robot Learning Lab  industrial lightweight robots  Service robots  Robot sensing systems  Robot learning  Mobile robots  Collision avoidance  Hardware 
Abstract: This paper introduces the KUKA Robot Learning Lab at KIT - a remotely accessible robotics testbed. The motivation behind the laboratory is to make state-of-the-art industrial lightweight robots more accessible for education and research. Such expensive hardware is usually not available to students or less privileged researchers to conduct experiments. This paper describes the design and operation of the Robot Learning Lab and discusses the challenges that one faces when making experimental robot cells remotely accessible. Especially safety and security must be ensured, while giving users as much freedom as possible when developing programs to control the robots. A fully automated and efficient processing pipeline for experiments makes the lab suitable for a large amount of users and allows a high usage rate of the robots.

Title: Automated Seedling Height Assessment for Tree Nurseries Using Point Cloud Processing
Key Words: computer vision  forestry  height measurement  image sampling  solid modelling  stereo image processing  seedling measurement process  scanning laser profilometer  application specific point-cloud  point-cloud generation methods  3D structured light sensing  light intensity detection  height measurement  measurement accuracy  measurement system  tree nurseries  point cloud processing  automated seedling height assessment system  offline identification  report generation  seedling development process  production optimization purposes  data samples  industrial scale operations  measurement sample size  measurement resolution  Centre for Agriculture and Forestry Development  Canada  Newfoundland and Labrador  Wooddale  Three-dimensional displays  Robot sensing systems  Measurement by laser beam  Control systems  Vegetation  Laser radar 
Abstract: This paper presents a prototype of an automated seedling height assessment system for tree nurseries. The proposed system can acquire and store real-time 3D point-cloud data of seedlings; and perform offline identification, measurement, and report generation of seedling heights with an overall system accuracy that meets a 5mm accuracy specification. Periodic growth information of seedlings allows quantifying effects of different factors on the overall seedling development process for research and production optimization purposes. However, current manual sampling approaches used at these facilities produce quite limited data samples, and the process is rather time-consuming and labor intensive for industrial scale operations. In contrast, the proposed system is capable of significantly increasing the measurement sample size, measurement resolution, and frequency of measurement by automating the seedling measurement process using a scanning laser profilometer and an application specific point-cloud processing algorithm. The performance of the proposed profilometry solution for point-cloud generation is compared with several other point-cloud generation methods such as a 3D structured light sensing, light intensity detection and ranging (LiDAR), stereovision, and photogrammetry. This comparison results demonstrate a superior performance of the laser-profilometer over other sensing solutions available for seedling height measurement. The proposed system is experimentally validated for its measurement accuracy and repeatability. The field-test of the measurement system was conducted at Centre for Agriculture and Forestry Development, Wooddale, Newfoundland and Labrador (NL), Canada, and the results demonstrate the practical applicability and technological readiness of the proposed system for field deployment.

Title: Adsorption Pad using Capillary Force for Uneven Surface
Key Words: adsorption  capillarity  mobile robots  seals (stoppers)  porous part  capillary part  capillary force  uneven surface  irregular surface object  Super Wet Adsorption pad  wall climbing robot  SWA pad  salt reaching method  water sealing  Adsorption  Fabrication  Force  Robots  Wires  Business  Surface treatment 
Abstract: We propose a novel adsorption pad for wall climbing robot and irregular surface object using capillary force and water sealing. We call this adsorption pad as Super Wet Adsorption pad. The SWA pad has a porous part and a capillary part. The porous part is made by salt reaching method. When the SWA pad adsorbs to the wall which some sand and dust are attached, water comes from the porous part to avoid vacuum breaking. The capillary part is connected to the porous part to supply and stock the water. In this paper, we show the design of the porous part and the capillary part, fabrication process of each parts, and perform the evaluation experiment of the capillary force and adsorption of uneven surfaces, demonstration of wall climbing robot and adsorption of irregular surface foods.

Title: Effects of Foot Stiffness and Damping on Walking Robot Performance
Key Words: damping  legged locomotion  robot dynamics  stability  foot stiffness  robot performance  damping properties  soft robotic feet  stability  energetic economy  bipedal robotic walking  hollow rubber  damping values  drop test rig  planar bipedal robot RAM  mechanical energy  walking speeds  foot properties  spherical feet  walking instability  Foot  Legged locomotion  Damping  Rubber  Soft robotics  Animals 
Abstract: In this paper, we investigated how the stiffness and damping properties of soft robotic feet affect the stability and energetic economy of bipedal robotic walking. To this end, we manufactured four different spherical feet from the following materials: hollow rubber, Sorbothane, Norsorex, and Neoprene. The materials were specifically chosen to cover a wide range of stiffness and damping values. The impact response of each design was first characterized in a drop test rig. We then evaluated the performance of each foot in an extensive series of walking experiments on the planar bipedal robot RAM one. Our results showed that, at low speeds, the feet with lower damping had a smaller energy cost of walking, possibly due to greater return of mechanical energy at lift-off. However, at speeds above 0.5m\s, the feet with lower damping started to exhibit a bouncing behaviour which led to higher walking instability and increased the energy cost of walking. Additionally, we found the feet with lower stiffness to be more economical across all walking speeds. Our results provide insight into the role of foot properties in bipedal walking and may help with the design of walking robots.

Title: Dynamic Walking on Slippery Surfaces : Demonstrating Stable Bipedal Gaits with Planned Ground Slippage*
Key Words: legged locomotion  nonlinear control systems  optimisation  robot dynamics  stability  stick-slip  trajectory control  lubricated surface  rough no-slip surface  foot slippage  slippery surfaces  stable bipedal gaits  planned ground slippage  dynamic bipedal robot locomotion  trajectory generation  nonlinear control  stabilization  low-friction surfaces  outdoor terrains  trajectory optimization  stick-slip transitions  point foot contact  Coulomb's friction law  slippery walking gait  AMBER-3M planar biped robot  dynamic walking  robot stance foot  Legged locomotion  Foot  Friction  Dynamics  Rough surfaces  Surface roughness 
Abstract: Dynamic bipedal robot locomotion has achieved remarkable success due in part to recent advances in trajectory generation and nonlinear control for stabilization. A key assumption utilized in both theory and experiments is that the robot's stance foot always makes no-slip contact with the ground, including at impacts. This assumption breaks down on slippery low-friction surfaces, as commonly encountered in outdoor terrains, leading to failure and loss of stability. In this work, we extend the theoretical analysis and trajectory optimization to account for stick-slip transitions at point foot contact using Coulomb's friction law. Using AMBER-3M planar biped robot as an experimental platform, we demonstrate for the first time a slippery walking gait which can be stabilized successfully both on a lubricated surface and on a rough no-slip surface. We also study the influence of foot slippage on reducing the mechanical cost of transport, and compare energy efficiency in both numerical simulation and experimental measurement.

Title: Torque and velocity controllers to perform jumps with a humanoid robot: theory and implementation on the iCub robot
Key Words: angular velocity control  humanoid robots  legged locomotion  motion control  optimisation  torque control  torque controller  velocity controller  velocity controllers  iCub robot  jumping  iCub humanoid robot  optimization  predefined CoM trajectory  centroidal angular momentum  Legged locomotion  Humanoid robots  Trajectory  Angular velocity  Optimization  Task analysis 
Abstract: Jumping can be an effective way of locomotion to overcome small terrain gaps or obstacles. In this paper we propose two different approaches to perform jumps with a humanoid robot. Specifically, starting from a pre-defined CoM trajectory we develop the theory for a velocity controller and for a torque controller based on an optimization technique for the evaluation of the joints input. The controllers have been tested both in simulation and on the humanoid robot iCub. In simulation the robot was able to jump using both controllers, while the real system jumped with the velocity controller only. The results highlight the importance of controlling the centroidal angular momentum and they suggest that the joint performances, namely maximum power, of the legs and torso joints, and the low level control performances are fundamental to achieve acceptable results.

Title: Safe Adaptive Switching among Dynamical Movement Primitives: Application to 3D Limit-Cycle Walkers
Key Words: gait analysis  humanoid robots  legged locomotion  motion control  path planning  robot dynamics  safe adaptive switching  dynamical movement primitives  robot motion plans  3D bipedal robot model  dynamic movement primitives  primitive movements  limit-cycle walking gait  control-theoretic tools  Switches  Limit-cycles  Safety  Task analysis  Legged locomotion  Dynamics 
Abstract: Complex robot motions are frequently generated by composing simpler primitive movements. We use this approach to formulate robot motion plans as sequences of primitives to be executed one after the other. When dealing with dynamical movement primitives, besides accomplishing the high-level objective, planners must also reason about the effect of the plan's execution on the safety of the platform. This task is exacerbated by the presence of disturbances, such as non-vanishing external forces. To address this issue, we present a framework that builds on rigorous control-theoretic tools to generate safely executable motion plans for externally excited robotic systems. We illustrate the proposed framework on adapting the motion of a 3D bipedal robot model to persistent external forcing by switching among dynamic movement primitives, each corresponding to a limit-cycle walking gait.

Title: Interactive Open-Ended Object, Affordance and Grasp Learning for Robotic Manipulation
Key Words: dexterous manipulators  end effectors  humanoid robots  learning (artificial intelligence)  object recognition  position control  robot vision  service robots  human-centric environments  end-effector positions  affordance category  grasp configuration  Bayesian approach  learning recognition  object categories  instance-based approach  robotic manipulation  service robots  object perception  grasp affordances  training data  batch learning  end-effector orientations  Task analysis  Three-dimensional displays  Education  Object detection  Object recognition  Service robots 
Abstract: Service robots are expected to autonomously and efficiently work in human-centric environments. For this type of robots, object perception and manipulation are challenging tasks due to need for accurate and real-time response. This paper presents an interactive open-ended learning approach to recognize multiple objects and their grasp affordances concurrently. This is an important contribution in the field of service robots since no matter how extensive the training data used for batch learning, a robot might always be confronted with an unknown object when operating in human-centric environments. The paper describes the system architecture and the learning and recognition capabilities. Grasp learning associates grasp configurations (i.e., end-effector positions and orientations) to grasp affordance categories. The grasp affordance category and the grasp configuration are taught through verbal and kinesthetic teaching, respectively. A Bayesian approach is adopted for learning and recognition of object categories and an instance-based approach is used for learning and recognition of affordance categories. An extensive set of experiments has been performed to assess the performance of the proposed approach regarding recognition accuracy, scalability and grasp success rate on challenging datasets and real-world scenarios.

Title: A parallel low-impedance sensing approach for highly responsive physical human-robot interaction
Key Words: dexterous manipulators  end effectors  human-robot interaction  human-robot interaction  serial robotic arm  macro-mini robot architecture  general multidegree-of-freedom serial robot  five-degree-of-freedom robotic arm  low-impedance sensing approach  impedance control scheme  Robot sensing systems  Impedance  Manipulators  Robot kinematics  Collision avoidance 
Abstract: This paper presents a novel sensing approach for the physical interaction between a human user and a serial robotic arm. The approach is inspired from the concept of macro-mini robot architecture. The framework is developed for a general multi-degree-of-freedom serial robot and a corresponding impedance control scheme is proposed. In order to illustrate the concept, a five-degree-of-freedom robotic arm was built as well as a six-degree-of-freedom low-impedance sensing device that is used to control the robot. Experimental results are provided.

Title: Safe Human Robot Cooperation in Task Performed on the Shared Load
Key Words: collision avoidance  human-robot interaction  industrial robots  motion control  neurocontrollers  robot dynamics  human-robot collaboration  safety framework  force myography data  human worker  human muscles  FMG signal  robot dynamics  robot motion  neural network  industrial settings  collision avoidance  Force  Robot kinematics  Muscles  Dynamics  Task analysis  Service robots 
Abstract: Human-robot collaboration in industrial settings calls for implementing safety measures to ensure there is no risk to humans working in such an environment. In human-robot physical collaboration, an object or a load is handled by both human and the robot. Developing a safety framework for the robot is a requirement for preventing collisions during performing a task. In this paper, force myography (FMG) data are used to develop a control scheme for the robot such that it can work with the human worker while avoiding collisions. Force myography quantifies the activities of human muscles when applying forces to handle an object. A neural network-based approach is then used to select the most informative features of the FMG signal. The developed control scheme incorporates the FMG data and the robot dynamics to obtain a prediction about the next step of the cooperation task and to plan the robot motion accordingly. The proposed approach is evaluated experimentally in real time in a moving objects task which requires appropriate complementary actions from the robot and the human user. The results of this study show that the proposed scheme can successfully plan the robot motion based on the actions of the human user.

Title: A Multi-modal Sensor Array for Safe Human-Robot Interaction and Mapping
Key Words: electric sensing devices  end effectors  force sensors  human-robot interaction  mobile robots  motion control  sensor arrays  multimodal sensor array  safe human-robot interaction  time-of-flight sensors  accidental contact detection  contact localization  force sensing  proximity sensing  proximity mapping  Hall effect  collaborative continuum robot  bracing constraint  admissible rolling motion  end effector  I2C communication network  Robot sensing systems  Force  Sensor arrays  Hall effect  Multiplexing  Robot perception  Collaborative robots  Continuum robots  Bracing  Mapping 
Abstract: In the future, human-robot interaction will include collaboration in close-quarters where the environment geometry is partially unknown. As a means for enabling such interaction, this paper presents a multi-modal sensor array capable of contact detection and localization, force sensing, proximity sensing, and mapping. The sensor array integrates Hall effect and time-of-flight (ToF) sensors in an I2C communication network. The design, fabrication, and characterization of the sensor array for a future in-situ collaborative continuum robot are presented. Possible perception benefits of the sensor array are demonstrated for accidental contact detection, mapping of the environment, selection of admissible zones for bracing, and constrained motion control of the end effector while maintaining a bracing constraint with an admissible rolling motion.

Title: Dynamic Primitives in Human Manipulation of Non-Rigid Objects
Key Words: biomechanics  human-robot interaction  learning systems  manipulator dynamics  motion control  optimisation  pendulums  position control  sloshing  human manipulation  nonrigid objects  liquid sloshing  horizontal line  virtual environment  human subjects  robotic manipulandum  residual oscillations  humans simplified control  human movements  continuous optimization-based control  control model  flexible objects  motion profile  human profiles  robot control  input shaping model  cart-and-pendulum system  Task analysis  Mathematical model  Oscillators  Trajectory  Robots  Predictive models  Computational modeling 
Abstract: This study examined strategies humans chose to manipulate an object with complex (nonlinear, underactuated) dynamics, such as liquid sloshing in a cup of coffee. The problem was simplified to the well-known cart-and-pendulum system moving on a horizontal line. This model was implemented in a virtual environment and human subjects manipulated the object via a robotic manipulandum. The task was to maneuver the system from rest to arrive at a target position such that no residual oscillations of the pendulum bob remained. Our goal was to test whether humans simplified control by employing dynamic primitives, specifically submovements. Experimental velocity profiles of the human movements were compared to those predicted by three different control models. Two models used continuous optimization-based control, the third control model was based on Input Shaping. Input Shaping is a method for controlling flexible objects by convolving a motion profile with impulses of appropriate amplitude and timing. To evaluate whether humans used Input Shaping, we decomposed the velocity profiles recorded from humans into submovements, as proxies for the convolved impulses. Comparing the motion profiles from the 3 models with the experimentally measured human profiles showed superior performance of the Input Shaping model. These initial results are consistent with our hypothesis that combining dynamic primitives, submovements, is a competent description of human performance and may provide a simpler alternative to computationally complex optimization-based methods of robot control.

Title: State Estimation in Contact-Rich Manipulation
Key Words: Bayes methods  manipulator dynamics  multi-robot systems  robot kinematics  robot vision  state estimation  torque control  complex manipulation scenario  state estimation  Bayesian state estimator  nonprehensile manipulation  industrial assembly  in-hand localization  contact dynamics  torque-based robot controller  robot kinematics  multiple robots  articulated objects  physical robot  freedom object  multimodal distributions  Dynamics  Computational modeling  Manipulators  Bayes methods  Estimation  Probabilistic logic 
Abstract: This paper introduces a Bayesian state estimator for contact-rich manipulation tasks with application in non-prehensile manipulation, industrial assembly or in-hand localization. The core idea of our approach is to explicitly model both the contact dynamics and a torque-based robot controller as part of the underlying system model. Our approach is capable of estimating the state of movable objects for various robot kinematics and geometries of robots and objects. This includes complex scenarios with multiple robots, multiple objects and articulated objects. We have validated our approach in simulation and on a physical robot. The experiments show that multimodal distributions of six degrees of freedom object poses can be accurately tracked in real-time in a complex manipulation scenario.

Title: Improved Proximity, Contact, and Force Sensing via Optimization of Elastomer-Air Interface Geometry
Key Words: distance measurement  elastomers  force measurement  force sensors  manipulators  object detection  optical sensors  optimisation  force sensing  elastomer-air interface geometry  robot manipulation  contact detection  signal-to-noise ratio  elastomer-air boundary  deformation measurement  distance measurement  contact force measurement  proximity sensor design  contact sensor design  optimization  single fingertip-mounted sensing system  optical time-of-flight range measurement modules  object detection  emitted light path control  Robot sensing systems  Receivers  Force  Force measurement  Optical sensors 
Abstract: We describe a single fingertip-mounted sensing system for robot manipulation that provides proximity (pre-touch), contact detection (touch), and force sensing (post-touch). The sensor system consists of optical time-of-flight range measurement modules covered in a clear elastomer. Because the elastomer is clear, the sensor can detect and range nearby objects, as well as measure deformations caused by objects that are in contact with the sensor and thereby estimate the applied force. We examine how this sensor design can be improved with respect to invariance to object reflectivity, signal-to-noise ratio, and continuous operation when switching between the distance and force measurement regimes. By harnessing time-of-flight technology and optimizing the elastomer-air boundary to control the emitted light's path, we develop a sensor that is able to seamlessly transition between measuring distances of up to 50 mm and contact forces of up to 10 newtons. We demonstrate that our sensor improves manipulation accuracy in a block unstacking task. Thorough instructions for manufacturing the sensor from inexpensive, commercially available components are provided, as well as all relevant hardware design files and software sources.

Title: Improving Haptic Adjective Recognition with Unsupervised Feature Learning
Key Words: feature extraction  image classification  iterative methods  unsupervised learning  unsupervised feature learning  densely innervated skin  haptics researchers  haptic intelligence  concrete tasks  object recognition  feature learning methods  haptic adjectives  diverse interactions  abstract binary classification tasks  spatio-temporal hierarchical matching pursuit  haptic adjective recognition  Haptic interfaces  Feature extraction  Task analysis  Dictionaries  Matching pursuit algorithms  Robot sensing systems 
Abstract: Humans can form an impression of how a new object feels simply by touching its surfaces with the densely innervated skin of the fingertips. Many haptics researchers have recently been working to endow robots with similar levels of haptic intelligence, but these efforts almost always employ hand-crafted features, which are brittle, and concrete tasks, such as object recognition. We applied unsupervised feature learning methods, specifically K-SVD and Spatio-Temporal Hierarchical Matching Pursuit (ST-HMP), to rich multi-modal haptic data from a diverse dataset. We then tested the learned features on 19 more abstract binary classification tasks that center on haptic adjectives such as smooth and squishy. The learned features proved superior to traditional hand-crafted features by a large margin, almost doubling the average F1 score across all adjectives. Additionally, particular exploratory procedures (EPs) and sensor channels were found to support perception of certain haptic adjectives, underlining the need for diverse interactions and multi-modal haptic data.

Title: Tactile Mapping and Localization from High-Resolution Tactile Imprints
Key Words: haptic interfaces  manipulators  tactile sensors  high-resolution tactile imprints  shape reconstruction  object localization  vision-based tactile sensor  local shapes  reconstructed objects  tactile sensing  tactile feedback  online object identification  Shape  Image reconstruction  Tactile sensors  Three-dimensional displays  Estimation 
Abstract: This work studies the problem of shape reconstruction and object localization using a vision-based tactile sensor, GelSlim. The main contributions are the recovery of local shapes from contact, an approach to reconstruct the tactile shape of objects from tactile imprints, and an accurate method for object localization of previously reconstructed objects. The algorithms can be applied to a large variety of 3D objects and provide accurate tactile feedback for in-hand manipulation. Results show that by exploiting the dense tactile information we can reconstruct the shape of objects with high accuracy and do on-line object identification and localization, opening the door to reactive manipulation guided by tactile sensing. We provide videos and supplemental information in the project's website web.mit.edu/mcube/research/tactile localization.html.

Title: Maintaining Grasps within Slipping Bounds by Monitoring Incipient Slip
Key Words: dexterous manipulators  force control  grippers  slip  tactile sensors  grasped object  sensor surface  2D rigid-body motion  motion field  2D planar rigid transformation  dense slip field  highly deformable objects  slip feedback  monitoring incipient slip  high-resolution vision-based tactile sensor  tactile imprints  detection accuracy  frequency 24.0 Hz  Force  Tactile sensors  Grasping  Cameras 
Abstract: In this paper, we propose an approach to detect incipient slip, i.e. predict slip, by using a high-resolution vision-based tactile sensor, GelSlim. The sensor dynamically captures the tactile imprints of the grasped object and their changes with a soft gel pad. The method assumes the object is mostly rigid and expects the motion of object's imprint on the sensor surface to be a 2D rigid-body motion. We use the deviation of the true motion field from that of a 2D planar rigid transformation as a measure of slip. The output is a dense slip field which we monitor in real time to detect when small areas of the contact patch start to slip (incipient slip). The method can detect incipient slip in any direction without any prior knowledge of the object at 24 Hz. We test the method on 10 objects for 240 times and achieve 86.25% detection accuracy with the vast majority of failure cases occurring when grasping highly deformable objects. We further show how the slip feedback can be used to adjust the gripping force to avoid slip with a closed-loop bottle-cap screwing and unscrewing experiment. The method can be used to enable many manipulation tasks in both structured and unstructured environments.

Title: Road Detection through CRF based LiDAR-Camera Fusion
Key Words: cameras  convolutional neural nets  image colour analysis  image fusion  image sampling  object detection  optical radar  KITTI-Road dataset  CRF based LiDAR-camera fusion  road detection method  color information  camera image domain  CRF fusion method  conditional random field framework  binary road detection  dense road detection  LiDAR-camera calibration  height-difference based scanning strategy  convolutional network  Laser radar  Roads  Cameras  Three-dimensional displays  Two dimensional displays  Image segmentation  Transforms 
Abstract: In this paper, we propose a road detection method with LiDAR-camera fusion in a novel conditional random field (CRF) framework to exploit both range and color information. In the LiDAR based part, a fast height-difference based scanning strategy is applied in the 2D LiDAR range-image domain and a dense road detection result in camera image domain can be obtained through geometric upsampling given the LiDAR-camera calibration parameters. In the camera based part, a fully convolutional network is applied in the camera image domain. Finally, we fuse the dense and binary road detection results from both LiDAR and camera in a single CRF framework. Experiments show that using a single thread of CPU, the proposed LiDAR based part can operate at a frequency of over 250Hz with sparse output in range image and 40Hz with dense result in camera image for the 64-beam Velodyne scanner. Our CRF fusion method achieves very promising road detection performance on the KITTI-Road dataset.

Title: Semantic mapping extension for OpenStreetMap applied to indoor robot navigation
Key Words: graph theory  mobile robots  path planning  OpenStreetMap  geometrical information  basic indoor structures  architectural principles  application-specific knowledge  graph-based map representation  hierarchical structure  semantic mapping extension  indoor robot navigation  grid-based motion planning algorithms  Robots  Semantics  Data models  Geometry  Navigation  Indoor environment  Tagging 
Abstract: In this work a graph-based, semantic mapping approach for indoor robotics applications is presented, which is extending OpenStreetMap (OSM) with robotic-specific, semantic, topological, and geometrical information. Models are introduced for basic indoor structures such as walls, doors, corridors, elevators, etc. The architectural principles support composition with additional domain and application-specific knowledge. As an example, a model for an area is introduced, and it is explained how this can be used in navigation. A key advantage of the proposed graph-based map representation is that it allows exploiting the hierarchical structure of the graphs. Finally, the compatibility of the approach with existing, grid-based motion planning algorithms is shown.

Title: Adaptive Probabilistic Vehicle Trajectory Prediction Through Physically Feasible Bayesian Recurrent Neural Network
Key Words: Bayes methods  gradient methods  learning (artificial intelligence)  probability  recurrent neural nets  stochastic processes  traffic engineering computing  Bayesian recurrent neural network  prediction horizon  target human driver  naturalistic car following data  multimodal stochastic feedback gain  particle-filter-based parameter adaptation algorithm  adopted gradient-based training method  embedded physical model  trajectory distribution  Bayesian-neural-network-based policy model  Bayesian recurrent neural network model  driving policy  predicted distribution  physical feasibility  long-term trajectory prediction  autonomous driving  robust safety  adaptive probabilistic vehicle trajectory prediction  Trajectory  Adaptation models  Probabilistic logic  Bayes methods  Vehicle dynamics  Vehicles  Predictive models 
Abstract: Probabilistic vehicle trajectory prediction is essential for robust safety of autonomous driving. Current methods for long-term trajectory prediction cannot guarantee the physical feasibility of predicted distribution. Moreover, their models cannot adapt to the driving policy of the predicted target human driver. In this work, we propose to overcome these two shortcomings by a Bayesian recurrent neural network model consisting of Bayesian-neural-network-based policy model and known physical model of the scenario. Bayesian neural network can ensemble complicated output distribution, enabling rich family of trajectory distribution. The embedded physical model ensures feasibility of the distribution. Moreover, the adopted gradient-based training method allows direct optimization for better performance in long prediction horizon. Furthermore, a particle-filter-based parameter adaptation algorithm is designed to adapt the policy Bayesian neural network to the predicted target online. Effectiveness of the proposed methods is verified with a toy example with multi-modal stochastic feedback gain and naturalistic car following data.

Title: Optimizing Vehicle Distributions and Fleet Sizes for Shared Mobility-on-Demand
Key Words: optimisation  road vehicles  traffic engineering computing  transportation  optimizing vehicle distributions  fleet sizes  urban transit  ride-sharing  vehicle congestion  multiple passengers  historical demand data  MoD systems  travel demand  taxi demand  shared mobility-on-demand systems  taxi requests  city's transportation infrastructure  four passenger vehicles  Schedules  Delays  Urban areas  Public transportation  Cost function  Automation 
Abstract: Mobility-on-demand (MoD) systems are revolutionizing urban transit with the introduction of ride-sharing. Such systems have the potential to reduce vehicle congestion and improve accessibility of a city's transportation infrastructure. Recently developed algorithms can compute routes for vehicles in real-time for a city-scale volume of requests while allowing vehicles to carry multiple passengers at the same time. However, these algorithms focus on optimizing the performance for a given fleet of vehicles and do not tell us how many vehicles are needed to service all the requests. In this paper, we present an offline method to optimize the vehicle distributions and fleet sizes on historical demand data for MoD systems that allow passengers to share vehicles. We present an algorithm to determine how many vehicles are needed, where they should be initialized, and how they should be routed to service all the travel demand for a given period of time. Evaluation using 23,529,740 historical taxi requests from one month in Manhattan shows that on average 2864 four passenger vehicles are needed to service all of the taxi demand in a day with an average added travel delay of 2.8 mins.

Title: Global Vision-Based Reconstruction of Three-Dimensional Road Surfaces Using Adaptive Extended Kalman Filter
Key Words: adaptive Kalman filters  cameras  computer vision  image filtering  image reconstruction  nonlinear filters  pose estimation  road safety  traffic engineering computing  AEKF  local road surface reconstruction techniques  on-road test  global vision-based reconstruction  three-dimensional road surfaces  vision-based technique  adaptive extended Kalman filter  global camera pose estimation  real-world global 3D road surface reconstruction  Roads  Surface reconstruction  Cameras  Image reconstruction  Uncertainty  Global Positioning System  Kalman filters 
Abstract: This paper presents a vision-based technique and a system developed for the global reconstruction of three-dimensional (3-D) road surfaces. Using the system, the technique globally reconstructs 3-D road surfaces by estimating the global camera pose using the Adaptive Extended Kalman Filter (AEKF) and integrating it with existing local road surface reconstruction techniques. The AEKF adaptively updates the covariance of uncertainties such that the estimation works well even in environments with varying uncertainties. Numerical results show the efficacy of the proposed technique over the Extended Kalman Filter (EKF)-based technique by 50% in accuracy, and the on-road test has demonstrated the ability of the proposed technique for the real-world global 3-D road surface reconstruction.

Title: Autonomous Tissue Manipulation via Surgical Robot Using Learning Based Model Predictive Control
Key Words: biological tissues  learning (artificial intelligence)  manipulators  medical robotics  mobile robots  predictive control  robot vision  surgery  autonomous tissue manipulation  soft tissue  AI learning  vision strategies  Raven IV surgical robotic system  predictive control algorithms  reinforcement learning  Robots  Heuristic algorithms  Prediction algorithms  Surgery  Neural networks  Task analysis  Aerospace electronics  Robotic Tissue Manipulation  Reinforcement Learning  Learning from Demonstration  Neural Networks  Simulation  Surgery  Automation  Machine Learning  Artificial Intelligence  AI  Raven Surgical Robot  Medical Robotics 
Abstract: Tissue manipulation is a frequently used fundamental subtask of any surgical procedures, and in some cases it may require the involvement of a surgeon's assistant. The complex dynamics of soft tissue as an unstructured environment is one of the main challenges in any attempt to automate the manipulation of it via a surgical robotic system. Two AI learning based model predictive control algorithms using vision strategies are proposed and studied: (1) reinforcement learning and (2) learning from demonstration. Comparison of the performance of these AI algorithms in a simulation setting indicated that the learning from demonstration algorithm can boost the learning policy by initializing the predicted dynamics with given demonstrations. Furthermore, the learning from demonstration algorithm is implemented on a Raven IV surgical robotic system and successfully demonstrated feasibility of the proposed algorithm using an experimental approach. This study is part of a profound vision in which the role of a surgeon will be redefined as a pure decision maker whereas the vast majority of the manipulation will be conducted autonomously by a surgical robotic system. A supplementary video can be found at: http://bionics.seas.ucla.edu/research/surgeryproject17.html.

Title: Robotic Control of a Multi-Modal Rigid Endoscope Combining Optical Imaging with All-Optical Ultrasound
Key Words: biomedical optical imaging  biomedical ultrasonics  cameras  endoscopes  medical robotics  optical sensors  phantoms  ultrasonic transducers  spiral scan  placenta phantom  white light stereo camera  robotic multimodal endoscope  low diameter endoscopes  dynamic environment  technically challenging surgery  fetoscopy  all-optical ultrasound  optical imaging  multimodal rigid endoscope  robotic control  surface visualisations  optical ultrasound sensor  Endoscopes  Ultrasonic imaging  Optical imaging  Optical sensors  Cameras  Robot sensing systems 
Abstract: Fetoscopy is a technically challenging surgery, due to the dynamic environment and low diameter endoscopes often resulting in a limited field of view. In this paper, we report on the design and operation of a robotic multimodal endoscope with optical ultrasound and white light stereo camera. The manufacture and control of the endoscope is presented, along with large area (80 mm ×80 mm) surface visualisations of a placenta phantom using the optical ultrasound sensor. The repeatability of the surface visualisations was found to be 0. 446 ± 0.139 mm and 0. 267 ± 0.017 mm for a raster and spiral scan, respectively.

Title: Enabling Technology for Safe Robot-Assisted Retinal Surgery: Early Warning for Unsafe Scleral Force
Key Words: calibration  eye  force sensors  manipulators  medical robotics  phantoms  surgery  manipulation task  early warning system  unsafe manipulation events  safe robot-assisted retinal surgery  unsafe scleral force  retinal microsurgery  high surgical skill  manipulation error  constant contact  unexpected manipulation  extreme tool-sclera contact force  robotic assistance  surgeon  potential intra-operative danger  robotic systems  imminent unsafe manipulation  sclera damage  force-sensing tool  unsafe events  steady hand eye robot  force safety status  Force  Surgery  Tools  Retina  Robot kinematics  Robot sensing systems 
Abstract: Retinal microsurgery is technically demanding and requires high surgical skill with very little room for manipulation error. During surgery the tool needs to be inserted into the eyeball while maintaining constant contact with the sclera. Any unexpected manipulation could cause extreme tool-sclera contact force (scleral force) thus damage the sclera. The introduction of robotic assistance could enhance and expand the surgeon's manipulation capabilities during surgery. However, the potential intra-operative danger from surgeon's mis-operations remains difficult to detect and prevent by existing robotic systems. Therefore, we propose a method to predict imminent unsafe manipulation in robot-assisted retinal surgery and generate feedback to the surgeon via auditory substitution. The surgeon could then react to the possible unsafe events in advance. This work specifically focuses on minimizing sclera damage using a force-sensing tool calibrated to measure small scleral forces. A recurrent neural network is designed and trained to predict the force safety status up to 500 milliseconds in the future. The system is implemented using an existing “steady hand” eye robot. A vessel following manipulation task is designed and performed on a dry eye phantom to emulate the retinal surgery and to analyze the proposed method. Finally, preliminary validation experiments are performed by five users, the results of which indicate that the proposed early warning system could help to reduce the number of unsafe manipulation events.

Title: Robotic bronchoscopy drive mode of the Auris Monarch platform*
Key Words: biomechanics  cancer  computerised tomography  endoscopes  lung  manipulators  medical image processing  medical robotics  physiological models  safety algorithms  robotic bronchoscopy drive mode  Auris Monarch platform  lung cancer  ten degree-of-freedom bronchoscope  three degree-of-freedom user input  paired driving concept  tension monitoring  lung porcine models  Robot sensing systems  Bronchoscopy  Lung  Manipulators  Cancer 
Abstract: Robotic bronchoscopy has the potential to improve the early detection of lung cancer. For the technology to be broadly adopted, the physician needs to be able to control the robotic bronchoscope in an instinctive and effective manner. In this paper, we describe the algorithms used to manipulate/drive the Auris Monarch Platform, a 10 degree-of-freedom bronchoscope and sheath, using a 3 degree-of-freedom user input. We introduce the concept of paired driving where the devices co-insert and co-articulate depending on their relative insertion. The paper presents safety algorithms such as auto-relax on retract and tension monitoring. The drive modes were developed, optimized, and clinically tested in lung models, human cadavers and live porcine models prior to their commercial release. Clinical studies show that the physician is able to reach significantly deeper in the lung than with classic bronchoscopes.

Title: Using comanipulation with active force feedback to undistort stiffness perception in laparoscopy
Key Words: force feedback  force measurement  medical computing  medical robotics  surgery  laparoscopic surgery  undistort stiffness perception  comanipulation paradigm  fulcrum  lever effect  laparoscopy  stiffness perception  active force feedback  preliminary assessment experiment  lever ratio  tool tip  surgeon  robotic device  Tools  Force  Robot sensing systems  Surgery  Instruments  Laparoscopes 
Abstract: Surgeons performing laparoscopic surgery experience distortion when perceiving the stiffness of a patient's tissues. This is due to the lever effect induced by the introduction of instruments in their patient's body through a fulcrum. To address this problem, we propose to use the comanipulation paradigm. A robotic device is connected to the handle of the instrument while simultaneously being held by the surgeon. This device applies a force on the handle that reflects the force measured at the tool tip, with a gain that depends on the lever ratio. The implementation of this method is presented on an experimental setup and a preliminary assessment experiment is presented.

Title: Stiffness-Tuneable Limb Segment with Flexible Spine for Malleable Robots
Key Words: bending  design engineering  elasticity  finite element analysis  flexible structures  humanoid robots  manipulator kinematics  motion control  structural engineering  multimaterial spine-inspired flexible structure  stiffness-controllable layer-jamming-based robotic links  spine mechanism  robotic link  layer jamming  hollow structure  light structure  flexible spine  link utilising  limb segments  granular jamming  bending angles  stiffness-tuneable limb segment  malleable robots  robotic arms  stiffness-adjustable  bending segments  revolute joints  mechanical architecture  degrees of freedom  suitable links  robotic manipulators  reduced performance  structural deformation  inner support structure  increased stiffening performance  stiffening mechanisms  Jamming  Manipulators  Strain  Ligaments  Force  Service robots 
Abstract: Robotic arms built from stiffness-adjustable, continuously bending segments serially connected with revolute joints have the ability to change their mechanical architecture and workspace, thus allowing high flexibility and adaptation to different tasks with less than six degrees of freedom, a concept that we call malleable robots. Known stiffening mechanisms may be used to implement suitable links for these novel robotic manipulators; however, these solutions usually show a reduced performance when bending due to structural deformation. By including an inner support structure this deformation can be minimised, resulting in an increased stiffening performance. This paper presents a new multi-material spine-inspired flexible structure for providing support in stiffness-controllable layer-jamming-based robotic links of large diameter. The proposed spine mechanism is highly movable with type and range of motions that match those of a robotic link using solely layer jamming, whilst maintaining a hollow and light structure. The mechanics and design of the flexible spine are explored, and a prototype of a link utilising it is developed and compared with limb segments based on granular jamming and layer jamming without support structure. Results of experiments verify the advantages of the proposed design, demonstrating that it maintains a constant central diameter across bending angles and presents an improvement of more than 203% of resisting force at 180°.

Title: A Reconfigurable Variable Stiffness Manipulator by a Sliding Layer Mechanism
Key Words: actuators  compliance control  elastic constants  honeycomb structures  manipulator dynamics  mechanical stability  medical robotics  surgery  sliding layer mechanism  interlocking jamming layers  reconfigurable variable stiffness manipulator  soft robots  variable stiffness mechanism  structural stability  manipulator  laparoscopic surgeries  Jamming  Manipulators  Tendons  Strips  Friction  Soft robotics 
Abstract: Inherent compliance plays an enabling role in soft robots, which rely on it to mechanically conform to the environment. However, it also limits the payload of the robots. Various variable stiffness approaches have been adopted to limit compliance and provide structural stability, but most of them can only achieve stiffening of discrete fixed regions which means compliance cannot be precisely adjusted for different needs. This paper offers an approach to enhance the payload with finely adjusted compliance for different needs. We have developed a manipulator that incorporates a novel variable stiffness mechanism and a sliding layer mechanism. The variable stiffness mechanism can achieve a 6.4 stiffness changing ratio with a miniaturized size (10 mm diameter for the testing prototype) through interlocking jamming layers with a honeycomb core. The sliding layer mechanism can actively shift the position of the stiffening regions through sliding of jamming layers. A model to predict the robot shape is derived with verifications via an experiment. The stiffening capacity of the variable stiffness mechanism is also empirically evaluated. A case study of a potential application in laparoscopic surgeries is showcased. The payload of the manipulator is investigated, and the prototype shows up to 57.8 percentage decrease of the vertical deflection due to an external load after reconfigurations.

Title: A Novel Variable Stiffness Actuator Based on Pneumatic Actuation and Supercoiled Polymer Artificial Muscles
Key Words: bending  control system synthesis  elastic constants  electroactive polymer actuators  pneumatic actuators  polymers  position control  pressure control  variable structure systems  supercoiled polymer artificial muscles  variable stiffness soft actuator  soft pneumatic actuation  muscle-like supercoiled polymer actuation  soft pneumatic actuator  SCP actuation  soft robot locomotion  soft robot manipulation  stiffness tuning  pressure control  SCP artificial muscle tension  Muscles  Pneumatic actuators  Soft robotics  Fabrication  Strain 
Abstract: This article describes an innovative design of variable stiffness soft actuator, which can potentially be utilized for manipulation and locomotion of soft robots. The new actuator is a combination of two types of actuations: soft pneumatic actuation and muscle-like supercoiled polymer (SCP) actuation. Soft pneumatic actuator has two roles: first is to generate bending motions and second is to increase the stiffness of the whole actuator together with SCP artificial muscles. SCP artificial muscles are exploited to generate pre-load to resist the whole actuator from (excessive) deformation when external load is applied. These two types of actuations are arranged antagonistically to realize stiffness tuning of the whole actuator. At a given bending position, stiffness of the actuator could be tuned by controlling the pressure inside the air chamber and the tension on the SCP artificial muscles. In experimental section, tests are conducted to characterize the applied SCP artificial muscles before they are applied to the proposed actuator. Afterwards, tests of proposed actuator are performed to examine its variable stiffness capability. From experimental results, the proposed actuator can achieve 3.47 times stiffness variation ratio from 0.0312 N/mm(40kPa air pressure and no SCP actuation) to 0.1083 N/mm(82kPa air pressure and SCP actuation at 0.143 W/cm) at the same position (bending angle of 56 degree). This study exhibits the potential of applying SCP artificial muscles to promote the performance of soft robots.

Title: A Novel Iterative Learning Model Predictive Control Method for Soft Bending Actuators
Key Words: actuators  bending  elasticity  iterative learning control  predictive control  robots  soft bending actuators  soft robots  pseudorigid-body model  bending behavior  learning curve  learning process  soft-elastic composite actuator  iterative learning model predictive control method  Mathematical model  Predictive models  Soft robotics  Actuators  Iterative methods  Predictive control  Computational modeling  Soft Material Robotics  Motion Control  Model Learning for Control 
Abstract: Soft robots attract research interests worldwide. However, its control remains challenging due to the difficulty in sensing and accurate modeling. In this paper, we propose a novel iterative learning model predictive control (ILMPC) method for soft bending actuators. The uniqueness of our approach is the ability to improve model accuracy gradually. In this method, a pseudo-rigid-body model is used to take an initial guess of the bending behavior of the actuator and the model accuracy is improved with iterative learning. Compared with conventional model free iterative learning control (ILC), the proposed method significantly reduces the learning curve. Compared with the model predictive control (MPC), the proposed method does not rely on an accurate model and it will output a satisfactory model after the learning process. A soft-elastic composite actuator (SECA) is used to validate the proposed method. Both simulation and experimental results show that the proposed method outperforms the conventional MPC and ILC.

Title: Design and Experimental Validation of a 2DOF Sidestick Powered by Hyper-Redundant Magnetorheological Actuators Providing Active Feedback
Key Words: aerospace components  aerospace control  closed loop systems  clutches  control system synthesis  force control  force feedback  haptic interfaces  interactive devices  magnetic actuators  magnetorheology  man-machine systems  jam-free design  actuation strategy  tendon driven 2DOF MR powered manipulator  electromechanical actuators  human controlled machines  tendon-driven 2-degree-of-freedom spherical gimbal  hyper-redundant MR clutches  closed-loop force control  electromagnetic actuators  aerospace flight control  man-machine interaction  haptic joysticks  active feedback  hyper-redundant magnetorheological actuators  2DOF sidestick  reliability requirements  system design  force density  Force  Torque  Reliability  Aerospace control  Electromagnetics  Actuators  Aircraft 
Abstract: Haptic joysticks for man-machine interaction used in aerospace flight control have highly demanding requirements of reliability, force density, and high dynamics that can hardly be met with conventional electromagnetic actuators. This work explores the potential of using an alternative actuation strategy based on hyper-redundant MR clutches that modulate the force of a tendon-driven 2-degree-of-freedom spherical gimbal. A system design and its closed-loop force control scheme are proposed. Experimental results for an open-loop characterization, static force control and dynamic force control are set out and compared with typical requirements for such devices from the literature. Results show that the proposed architecture leads to one of the lightest systems reported in the literature that has the potential to meet reliability requirements by providing a jam-free design with duplex fault tolerance, and yet, can generate high force levels while providing enough force resolution. The approach is promising and can extend to high-performance collaborative robot applications.

Title: A Lightweight Force-Controllable Wearable Arm Based on Magnetorheological-Hydrostatic Actuators
Key Words: electromagnetic actuators  force control  friction  human-robot interaction  magnetorheology  manipulators  medical robotics  motion control  patient rehabilitation  robot dynamics  electromagnetic actuators  supernumerary robotic limbs  wearable robots  human arms  lightweight SRL  MR-hydrostatic actuation system  magnetorheological-hydrostatic actuators  human environment  force-control approaches  elbow joints  wearable robotic arm  force-controllable SRL  low-friction hydrostatic transmission  interaction forces  mechanical backdrivability  size 25.0 nm  frequency 25.0 Hz  Force  Manipulators  Bandwidth  Friction  Hydraulic systems  Task analysis  Supernumerary robotic limbs  Wearable robotic  Lightweight  Force-Control  Magnetorheological  Hydrostatic Transmission  High-Bandwidth  Backdrivability 
Abstract: Supernumerary Robotic Limbs (SRLs) are wearable robots augmenting human capabilities by acting as a co-worker, reaching objects, support human arms, etc. However, existing SRLs lack the mechanical backdrivability and bandwidth required for tasks where the interaction forces must be controlled such as painting, drilling, manipulating fragile objects, etc. Being highly backdrivable with a high bandwidth while minimizing weight presents a major technological challenge imposed by the limited performances of conventional electromagnetic actuators. This paper studies the feasibility of using magnetorheological (MR) clutches coupled-to a low-friction hydrostatic transmission to provide a highly capable, but yet lightweight, force-controllable SRL. A 2.7 kg 2-DOFs wearable robotic arm is designed and built. Shoulder and elbow joints are designed to deliver 39 and 25 Nm, with 115 and 180° of range of motion. Experimental studies conducted on a one-DOF test bench and validated analytically demonstrate a high force bandwidth (>25 Hz) and a good ability to control interaction forces even when interacting with an external impedance. Furthermore, three force-control approaches are studied and demonstrated experimentally: open-loop, closed-loop on force, and closed-loop on pressure. All three methods are shown to be effective. Overall, the proposed MR-Hydrostatic actuation system is well-suited for a lightweight SRL interacting with both human and environment that add unpredictable disturbances.

Title: Optical Force Sensing In Minimally Invasive Robotic Surgery
Key Words: beams (structures)  force measurement  force sensors  light emitting diodes  medical robotics  optical sensors  prototypes  shafts  surgery  invasive robotic surgery  bandwidth measurement  force measurement  infrared LED-bicell pair  3D printed prototype  structural dynamics  sensor limitations  flexible beam model  differential photocurrent  instrument shaft  optical slit  daVinci EndoWrist instruments  optical force sensing  Conferences  Automation  Surgical Robotics: Laparoscopy  Force and Tactile Sensing  Haptics and Haptic Interfaces 
Abstract: This paper evaluates the feasibility of a novel optical sensing concept to measure forces applied at the tip of daVinci EndoWrist instruments. An optical slit is clamped onto the instrument shaft, in-line with an infrared LED-bicell pair. Deflection of the shaft moves the slit with respect to the LED-bicell pair and modulates the light incident on each active element of the bicell. The differential photocurrent is conditioned and monitored to estimate the tip forces. The feasibility evaluation consists of a flexible beam model to quantify the required sensor performance, experimental results with a 3D printed prototype and estimation of the sensor limitations including the measurement bandwidth due to the structural dynamics. The proposed approach requires no modifications to the instrument, is adaptable to different instruments and robot platforms, and leads to high-resolution, high-dynamic range sensing without hysteresis.

Title: Mechanical Framework Design with Experimental Verification of a Wearable Exoskeleton Chair
Key Words: bending  biomechanics  electromyography  ergonomics  finite element analysis  medical signal processing  orthotics  solid modelling  HUST-EC  vastus lateralis  vastus medialis  biceps femoris  rectus femoris  muscle activation  chair height  bending angles  chair angles  MATLAB-based acquisition software  EMG sensors  electromyography test platform  finite element analysis program  solid models  prototype chair  wearable chair design  human-chair model  wearable exoskeleton chair  Conferences  Automation  exoskeleton  wearable chair  EMG  mechanism design 
Abstract: In this study, a human-chair model was developed as the basis for a wearable chair design. A prototype chair, HUST-EC, was fabricated and evaluated. Employing the optimization under an inner point penalty function, an optimized simulation of the operating mode with the lowest chair height was implemented. The solid models were established by using the finite element analysis program embedded in Solidworks, which revealed that the support from the designed chair was steady to the user. An electromyography (EMG) test platform has been developed, consisting of four EMG sensors, a MATLAB-based acquisition software, and a loaded vest. Four healthy subjects participated in the evaluation experiment, in which EMGs were collected from the muscle groups of rectus femoris, biceps femoris, vastus medialis, and vastus lateralis under different loads and chair angles. The experimental data demonstrate that (1) the HUST-EC can greatly reduce muscle activation at a variety of loads and bending angles; (2) under the same load, the muscle activation decreases slightly with an increased bending angle; and (3) at the same bending angle, muscle activation increases slightly with an increased load. The results show that the designed chair can effectively reduce the physical burden in workers and may improve work efficiency.

Title: KO-Fusion: Dense Visual SLAM with Tightly-Coupled Kinematic and Odometric Tracking
Key Words: cameras  distance measurement  image colour analysis  image fusion  image texture  manipulator kinematics  mobile robots  motion estimation  robot vision  SLAM (robots)  stereo image processing  KO-fusion  dense visual SLAM methods  observer  visual information  SLAM systems  inertial measurements  dense RGB-D SLAM system  wheeled robot  kinematic data  odometric data  kinematic measurements  tightly-coupled kinematic  odometric tracking  manipulator  odometry measurements  motion estimation  Cameras  Simultaneous localization and mapping  Robot vision systems  Kinematics  Manipulators 
Abstract: Dense visual SLAM methods are able to estimate the 3D structure of an environment and locate the observer within them. They estimate the motion of a camera by matching visual information between consecutive frames, and are thus prone to failure under extreme motion conditions or when observing texture-poor regions. The integration of additional sensor modalities has shown great promise in improving the robustness and accuracy of such SLAM systems. In contrast to the popular use of inertial measurements we propose to tightly-couple a dense RGB-D SLAM system with kinematic and odometry measurements from a wheeled robot equipped with a manipulator. The system has real-time capability while running on GPU. It optimizes the camera pose by considering the geometric alignment of the map as well as kinematic and odometric data from the robot. Through experimentation in the real-world, we show that the system is more robust to challenging trajectories featuring fast and loopy motion than the equivalent system without the additional kinematic and odometric knowledge, whilst retaining comparable performance to the equivalent RGB-D only system on easy trajectories.

Title: Diffraction-Aware Sound Localization for a Non-Line-of-Sight Source
Key Words: acoustic signal processing  acoustic wave diffraction  acoustic wave propagation  particle filtering (numerical methods)  ray tracing  generated acoustic rays  estimated source position  static NLOS sound sources  dynamic NLOS sound sources  actual source locations  state-of-the-art localization method  nonline-of-sight source  sound localization algorithm  nonline-of-sight sound source  indoor environments  diffraction properties  sound waves  bending effects  virtual sound source  indoor scene  diffraction acoustic rays  ray tracing-based sound propagation  diffraction-aware sound localization  UTD  uniform theory of diffraction  wedge precomputing  reconstructed mesh  particle filter  size 7.0 m  size 3.0 m  Diffraction  Ray tracing  Three-dimensional displays  Computational modeling  Acoustic diffraction  Robots 
Abstract: We present a novel sound localization algorithm for a non-line-of-sight (NLOS) sound source in indoor environments. Our approach exploits the diffraction properties of sound waves as they bend around a barrier or an obstacle in the scene. We combine a ray tracing-based sound propagation algorithm with a Uniform Theory of Diffraction (UTD) model, which simulate bending effects by placing a virtual sound source on a wedge in the environment. We precompute the wedges of a reconstructed mesh of an indoor scene and use them to generate diffraction acoustic rays to localize the 3D position of the source. Our method identifies the convergence region of those generated acoustic rays as the estimated source position based on a particle filter. We have evaluated our algorithm in multiple scenarios consisting of static and dynamic NLOS sound sources. In our tested cases, our approach can localize a source position with an average accuracy error of 0.7m, measured by the L2 distance between estimated and actual source locations in a 7m×7m×3m room. Furthermore, we observe 37% to 130% improvement in accuracy over a state-of-the-art localization method that does not model diffraction effects, especially when a sound source is not visible to the robot.

Title: DeepFusion: Real-Time Dense 3D Reconstruction for Monocular SLAM using Single-View Depth and Gradient Predictions
Key Words: cameras  computerised instrumentation  graphics processing units  image fusion  image reconstruction  learning (artificial intelligence)  minimisation  neurocontrollers  photometry  probability  SLAM (robots)  stereo image processing  target tracking  depth cameras  CNN  DeepFusion  semidense multiview stereo algorithm  gradient predictions  monocular SLAM  single-view depth  keypoint-based maps  camera tracking  dense 3D reconstructions  convolutional neural network  sparse monocular simultaneous localisation and mapping systems  real-time dense 3D reconstruction system  photometric error minimization  GPU  probability  Image reconstruction  Uncertainty  Cameras  Simultaneous localization and mapping  Three-dimensional displays  Real-time systems  Robot vision systems 
Abstract: While the keypoint-based maps created by sparse monocular Simultaneous Localisation and Mapping (SLAM) systems are useful for camera tracking, dense 3D reconstructions may be desired for many robotic tasks. Solutions involving depth cameras are limited in range and to indoor spaces, and dense reconstruction systems based on minimising the photometric error between frames are typically poorly constrained and suffer from scale ambiguity. To address these issues, we propose a 3D reconstruction system that leverages the output of a Convolutional Neural Network (CNN) to produce fully dense depth maps for keyframes that include metric scale. Our system, DeepFusion, is capable of producing real-time dense reconstructions on a GPU. It fuses the output of a semi-dense multiview stereo algorithm with the depth and gradient predictions of a CNN in a probabilistic fashion, using learned uncertainties produced by the network. While the network only needs to be run once per keyframe, we are able to optimise for the depth map with each new frame so as to constantly make use of new geometric constraints. Based on its performance on synthetic and real world datasets, we demonstrate that DeepFusion is capable of performing at least as well as other comparable systems.

Title: Dynamic Hilbert Maps: Real-Time Occupancy Predictions in Changing Environments
Key Words: Hilbert spaces  mobile robots  remotely operated vehicles  real-time occupancy predictions  static occupancy models  continuous occupancy map  high-dimensional feature space  data-efficient model  crowded unstructured outdoor environments  dynamic Hilbert maps  temporal dependencies  3D laser data  2D laser data  Vehicle dynamics  Predictive models  Uncertainty  Dynamics  Indexes  Real-time systems  Clustering algorithms 
Abstract: This paper addresses the problem of learning instantaneous occupancy levels of dynamic environments and predicting future occupancy levels. Due to the complexity of most real environments, such as urban streets or crowded areas, the efficient and robust incorporation of temporal dependencies into otherwise static occupancy models remains a challenge. We propose a method to capture the uncertainty of moving objects and incorporate this uncertainty information into a continuous occupancy map represented in a rich high-dimensional feature space. This data-efficient model not only allows us to learn the occupancy states incrementally, but also makes predictions about what the future occupancy states will be. Experiments performed using 2D and 3D laser data collected from crowded unstructured outdoor environments show that the proposed methodology can accurately predict occupancy states for areas of around 1000 m2 at 10 Hz, making the proposed framework ideal for online applications under real-time constraints.

Title: Evaluating the Effectiveness of Perspective Aware Planning with Panoramas
Key Words: image colour analysis  image sensors  object detection  path planning  robot vision  SLAM (robots)  binary coverage  goal selection strategy  image morphology  search space  CSQMI  perspective aware planning  information based exploration strategy  high resolution 3D maps  RGBD panoramas  angle enhanced occupancy grid  exploration strategy  maximal Cauchy-Schwarz quadratic mutual information  logging image control  Skeleton  Mutual information  Task analysis  Cameras  Robot vision systems 
Abstract: In this work, we present an information based exploration strategy tailored for the generation of high resolution 3D maps. We employ RGBD panoramas because they have been shown to provide memory efficient high quality representations of space. Robots explore the environment by selecting locations with maximal Cauchy-Schwarz Quadratic Mutual Information (CSQMI) computed on an angle enhanced occupancy grid to collect these RGBD panoramas. By employing the angle enhanced occupancy grid, the resulting exploration strategy emphasizes perspective in addition to binary coverage. Furthermore, the goal selection strategy is improved by using image morphology to reduce the search space over which CSQMI is computed. We present experimental results demonstrating the improved performance in perception related tasks by capturing panoramas using this approach, near frontier exploration, and a control of logging images at regular intervals while teleoperating the robot through the workspace. Collect imagery was passed through an object detection library with our perspective aware approach yielding a greater number of successful detections compared to near frontier exploration.

Title: Actively Improving Robot Navigation On Different Terrains Using Gaussian Process Mixture Models
Key Words: Gaussian processes  mixture models  mobile robots  navigation  path planning  robot navigation  outdoor environments  place-dependent model  aerial image  path planning  Gaussian process mixture model  Robots  Navigation  Vibrations  Mixture models  Energy consumption  Gaussian processes  Planning 
Abstract: Robot navigation in outdoor environments is exposed to detrimental factors such as vibrations or power consumption due to the different terrains on which the robot navigates. In this paper, we address the problem of actively improving navigation by planning paths that aim at reducing over time phenomena such as vibrations during traversal. Our approach uses a Gaussian Process (GP) mixture model and an aerial image of the environment to learn and improve continuously a place-dependent model of such phenomena from the experiences of the robot. We use this model to plan paths that trade-off the exploration of unknown promising regions and the exploitation of known areas where the impact of the detrimental factors on navigation is low, leading to an improved navigation over time. We implemented our approach and thoroughly tested it using real-world data. Our experiments suggest that our approach with no initial information leads the robot, after few runs, to follow paths along which it experiences similar vibrations or energy consumption as if it was following the optimal path computed given the ground truth information.

Title: Continuous Occupancy Map Fusion with Fast Bayesian Hilbert Maps
Key Words: Bayes methods  image fusion  mobile robots  multi-robot systems  SLAM (robots)  multirobot Hilbert Map systems  individual Fast-BHMs  decentralised manner  continuous representation  robot autonomy  traditional occupancy grid maps  continuous nature  continuous occupancy map fusion  fused fast-BHMs  global fast-BHM models  Bayesian Hilbert map models  fast Bayesian Hilbert maps  Bayes methods  Robots  Covariance matrices  Merging  Time complexity  Real-time systems  Training 
Abstract: Mapping the occupancy of an environment is central for robot autonomy. Traditional occupancy grid maps discretise the environment into independent cells, neglecting important spatial correlations, and are unable to capture the continuous nature of the real world. With these drawbacks of grid maps in mind, Hilbert Maps (HM) and more recently Bayesian Hilbert Maps (BHMs), were introduced as a continuous representation of the environment. In this paper we propose a method to merge Bayesian Hilbert Maps built by a team of robots in a decentralised manner. The training of BHMs requires the inversion of a large covariance matrix, incurring cubic complexity. We introduce an approximation, Fast Bayesian Hilbert Maps (Fast-BHM), which reduces the time complexity to below quadratic. Such speed-ups allow the building and merging of Bayesian Hilbert Map models to be practical, opening the door for multi-robot Hilbert Map systems which can be much faster and more robust than an individual robot. By merging several individual Fast-BHMs in a decentralised manner we obtain a unified model of the environment which is itself a Fast-BHM. We conduct experiments to show that global Fast-BHM models do not deteriorate after repeated merging and training. We then empirically demonstrate, due to its the compact representation, fused Fast-BHMs outperform fusion methods involving discretising continuous representations, when the amount of information communicated is limited.

Title: Fault-tolerant Flight Control of a VTOL Tailsitter UAV
Key Words: actuators  aircraft control  autonomous aerial vehicles  control system synthesis  fault tolerant control  remotely operated vehicles  minimalistic actuation  possible actuator failures  light-weight adaptations  nominal flight controller  tailsitter VTOL aircraft  fault-tolerant flight control  landing systems  moving parts  vertical take-off and landing systems  Propellers  Actuators  Aircraft  Aerospace electronics  Force  Fault tolerance  Fault tolerant systems 
Abstract: Compared to other vertical take-off and landing (VTOL) systems, a tailsitter minimizes the number of actuators and moving parts necessary. The downside of having a minimalistic actuation is its inherent low fault-tolerance. The failure of an actuator usually results in a loss of controllability, resulting in a crash. In this paper we analyze possible actuator failures and the constraints they pose on the capabilities of the system. We further present light-weight adaptations to the nominal flight controller to make it fault-tolerant. The fault-tolerant controller is implemented on a small tailsitter VTOL aircraft and adjusted to the system by means of extensive experimental studies. Finally, the capabilities and performance under failures are demonstrated and analyzed.

Title: Modeling and Control of a Passively-Coupled Tilt-Rotor Vertical Takeoff and Landing Aircraft
Key Words: actuators  aerospace components  aircraft control  attitude control  autonomous aerial vehicles  cascade control  control system synthesis  helicopters  hinges  mobile robots  propellers  rotors (mechanical)  three-term control  velocity control  quadrotor frame  fixed-wing aircraft  hover  forward flight  tilting actuators  coupled dynamics  aircraft frame  cascaded control architecture  control design  forward velocity control  passively-coupled tilt-rotor vertical takeoff and landing aircraft  differential thrust  propellers  inner-loop attitude  height control  constrained Lagrangian approach  P-PID controllers  unactuated hinged mechanism  equations of motion  unmanned aerial vehicles  UAVs  Aircraft  Mathematical model  Atmospheric modeling  Aerodynamics  Aerospace control  Rotors  Angular velocity  Vertical takeoff and landing aircraft  passively-coupled tilt-rotor  dynamic modeling  cascade PID control  PX4 autopilot 
Abstract: This paper presents the modeling and control of a passively-coupled tilt-rotor vertical takeoff and landing aircraft. The aircraft consists of a quadrotor frame attached to a fixed-wing aircraft by an unactuated hinged mechanism. The platform is capable of smooth transitions from hover to forward flight without the use of tilting actuators. The transition from hover to forward flight is made possible by differential thrust between the fore and aft propellers of the quadrotor frame. In this paper, the coupled dynamics between the quadrotor frame and the aircraft frame are modeled as a constrained multi-body system. The equations of motion are established using a constrained Lagrangian approach and the model developed is used to build a realistic simulation environment for control design purpose. A cascaded control architecture based on P/PID controllers is proposed to achieve inner-loop attitude, height and forward velocity control. Simulated and experimental results are obtained with a close match for hover, transitions, forward flight, and banked turn maneuvers.

Title: Power-Minimizing Control of a Variable-Pitch Propulsion System for Versatile Unmanned Aerial Vehicles
Key Words: aerospace propulsion  attitude control  autonomous aerial vehicles  mobile robots  motion control  pitch control (position)  power consumption  power control  propellers  robot dynamics  propeller design  propeller-based propulsion mechanisms  variable-pitch propeller  versatile UAVs  quasisteady propulsive state  power-minimizing control  electrical power consumption  versatile unmanned aerial vehicles  variable-pitch propulsion system  Power demand  Propellers  Servomotors  Unmanned aerial vehicles  Brushless DC motors 
Abstract: In response to an abundance of applications, Unmanned Aerial Vehicles are being called upon to perform missions of high difficulty for increasingly long periods of time. Traditional paradigms of propeller design and actuation are reaching a design ceiling, motivating creative approaches to the design of propeller-based propulsion mechanisms. Within the last decade, one particular kind of mechanism, the variable-pitch propeller, has been studied by researchers for its applications to the class of small UAVs. This paper pushes for new results in this area by exploring the use of Variable Pitch Propulsion (VPP) to minimize power consumption for small, versatile UAVs. A control algorithm is presented to minimize the consumed electrical power during a quasi-steady propulsive state. In particular, the algorithm is not confined to operation in limited regions of the state space, but it seeks to minimize power at whatever point in the state space a steady state is reached. Several experimental results are presented to validate the approach.

Title: Rapid Inertial Reorientation of an Aerial Insect-sized Robot Using a Piezo-actuated Tail
Key Words: aerodynamics  aerospace robotics  feedforward  gears  microrobots  mobile robots  motion control  open loop systems  piezoelectric actuators  stability  rapid inertial reorientation  aerial insect-sized robot  bio-inspired inertial tail  DC electric motor  geared motor system  piezo-tail system  resonant system  piezo-driven inertial reorientation  open-loop feedforward controller  rapid dynamic maneuvers  piezoactuator  mass 142.0 mg  Actuators  Robots  Analytical models  Torque  Fabrication  Aerodynamics  Prototypes 
Abstract: We present the design, fabrication, and feedforward control of a insect-sized (142 mg) aerial robot that is equipped with a bio-inspired inertial tail. A tail allows the robot to perform rapid inertial reorientation as well as to shift weight to modulate aerodynamic torques on its body. Here we present the first analysis of inertial reorientation using a piezo actuator, departing from previous work to date that has focused exclusively on actuation by DC electric motor. The primary difference is that unlike a geared motor system, the piezo-tail system operates as a resonant system, exhibiting slowly-decaying oscillations. We present a dynamic model of piezo-driven inertial reorientation, along with an open-loop feedforward controller that reduces excitation of the resonant mode. We validate our approach on a tethered testbed as well as a flight-capable prototype. Our results indicate that incorporating a tail can allow for more rapid dynamic maneuvers and could stabilize the robot during flight.

Title: Contact–based Navigation Path Planning for Aerial Robots
Key Words: autonomous aerial vehicles  mobile robots  path planning  remotely operated vehicles  robot dynamics  robot kinematics  aerial robots  in-contact operation  contact missions  flying robot  navigation mode  cartwheel mode  navigation modalities  in-contact navigation  specialized contact mechanism  contact-based navigation path planning  Navigation  Task analysis  Unmanned aerial vehicles  Inspection  Path planning  Mobile robots 
Abstract: In this paper the problem of contact-based navigation path planning for aerial robots is considered with the goal of enabling the autonomous in-contact operation on surfaces that can be highly anomalous. Such a capacity can prove critical in inspection through contact missions, as well as when a flying robot is tasked to operate in very narrow environments rendering safe free-flight impossible. To achieve this objective, beyond sliding in contact, a new locomotion primitive is introduced, namely that of azimuth rotations perpendicular to the surface under consideration. This new navigation mode, called flying cartwheel mode, offers navigation resourcefulness and resilience when the system is tasked to move in contact with surfaces that are otherwise non-traversable. The designed path planning method exploits both navigation modalities and a traversability metric to decide when to switch from sliding to flying cartwheel mode, and overall provides cost-optimal trajectories for in-contact navigation. The proposed approach is verified both in simulation, as well as experimentally using a surface presenting complex anomalies. It is highlighted that the proposed method does not assume any specialized contact mechanism or a control law tailored to physical interaction tasks, and hence is applicable to almost any micro aerial vehicle integrating protective shrouds around its propellers.

Title: Cargo Transportation Strategy using T3-Multirotor UAV
Key Words: attitude control  autonomous aerial vehicles  freight handling  helicopters  motion control  servomechanisms  cargo transportation strategy  stable flight performance  constant flight performance  fuselage part  relative attitude control strategy  T3-multirotor UAV platform  thrust generating part  servomechanism  moment of inertia  motion control  Mathematical model  Servomechanisms  Attitude control  Torque  Transportation  Radio frequency 
Abstract: In this paper, we introduce a cargo transportation method with a new type of multi-rotor UAV platform known as T3-multirotor, to achieve stable and constant flight performance regardless of the type of cargo attached to the fuselage. The T3-multirotor, which consists of the `Thrust Generating Part' and the `Fuselage Part', can directly control the relative attitude between the two parts using the novel servomechanism. By utilizing the servomechanism with the proposed relative attitude control strategy, the T3-multirotor with cargo attached to the fuselage part can behave as a multi-rotor with only the moment of inertia of the thrust generating part during entire transportation. This allows the T3-multirotor to achieve the reliable performance in the event of any cargo being attached to the fuselage, achieving stable platform motion control. Detailed hardware description and dynamic analysis of T3-Multirotor is performed in this paper, and the validity of the proposed control strategy is also analyzed. The feasibility of the proposed control strategy is verified through experimental results with analysis.

Title: Experimental Learning of a Lift-Maximizing Central Pattern Generator for a Flapping Robotic Wing
Key Words: aerodynamics  aerospace components  autonomous aerial vehicles  control engineering computing  gradient methods  learning (artificial intelligence)  motion control  multi-agent systems  robot dynamics  robot kinematics  robot programming  experimental learning  lift-maximizing central pattern generator  flapping robotic wing  policy gradient algorithm  dynamically scaled robotic wing  constant Reynolds number  central pattern generator model  CPG  motion controller  rhythmic wing motion patterns  half-stroke symmetry constraint  learning agent  robotic learning  wing kinematic learning  Kinematics  Robots  Oscillators  Trajectory  Servomotors  Heuristic algorithms  Computational modeling 
Abstract: In this work, we present an application of a policy gradient algorithm to a real-time robotic learning problem, where the goal is to maximize the average lift generation of a dynamically scaled robotic wing at a constant Reynolds number (Re). Compared to our previous work, the merit of this work is two-fold. First, a central pattern generator (CPG) model was used as the motion controller, which provided a smooth generation and transition of rhythmic wing motion patterns while the CPG was being updated by the policy gradient, thereby accelerating the sample generation and reducing the total learning time. Second, the kinematics included three degrees of freedom (stroke, deviation, pitching) and were also free of half-stroke symmetry constraint, together they yielded a larger kinematic space which later explored by the policy gradient to maximize the lift generation. The learned wing kinematics used the full range of stroke and deviation to maximize the lift generation, implying that the wing trajectories with larger disk area and lower frequencies were preferred for high lift generation at constant Re. Furthermore, the wing pitching amplitude converged to values between 45°-49° regardless of what the other parameters were. Notably, the learning agent was able to find two locally optimal wing motion patterns, which had distinct shapes of wing trajectory but generated similar cycle-averaged lift.

Title: Toward Lateral Aerial Grasping & Manipulation Using Scalable Suction
Key Words: grippers  mobile robots  self-adjusting systems  stability  scalable suction  aerial robot  lateral physical work  ground-based robots  functional work  lateral force  hovering vehicle  environmental forces  self-sealing suction cup  flight vehicle  physical grasping demonstrations  suction-based gripper  Grippers  Force  Spirals  Propulsion  Electron tubes  Robot sensing systems 
Abstract: This paper is an initial step toward the realization of an aerial robot that can perform lateral physical work, such as drilling a hole or fastening a screw in a wall. Aerial robots are capable of high maneuverability and can provide access to locations that would be difficult or impossible for ground-based robots to reach. However, to fully utilize this mobility, systems would ideally be able to perform functional work in those locations, requiring the ability to exert lateral forces. To substantially improve a hovering vehicle's ability to stably deliver large lateral forces, we propose the use of a versatile suction-based gripper that can establish pulling contact on featureless surfaces. Such contact enables access to environmental forces that can be used to further stabilize the vehicle and also increase the lateral force delivered to the surface through a possible secondary mechanism. This paper introduces the concept, describes the design of a new self-sealing suction cup based on a previous design, details the design of a gripper using those cups, and describes the arm and flight vehicle. It then evaluates the cup and gripper performance in several ways, culminating in physical grasping demonstrations using the arm and gripper, including one in the presence of simulated flight noise based on data from preliminary indoor flight experiments.

Title: Design and Implementation of Computer Vision based In-Row Weeding System
Key Words: agricultural robots  agrochemicals  cameras  crops  feature extraction  mobile robots  robot vision  spraying  sustainable development  computer vision  autonomous robotic weeding systems  precision farming  current dependency  herbicides  pesticides  selective spraying  mechanical weed removal modules  environmental pollution  real-time treatment  weeding control system  indeterminate classification delays  in-row weeding system design  sustainability  nonoverlapping multicamera system  terrain conditions  Cameras  Agriculture  Delays  Control systems  Robots  Three-dimensional displays  Tracking 
Abstract: Autonomous robotic weeding systems in precision farming have demonstrated their full potential to alleviate the current dependency on herbicides or pesticides by introducing selective spraying or mechanical weed removal modules, thus reducing the environmental pollution and improving the sustainability. However, most previous works require fast weed detection system to achieve real-time treatment. In this paper, a novel computer vision based weeding control system is presented, where a non-overlapping multi-camera system is introduced to compensate the indeterminate classification delays, thus allowing for more complicated and advanced detection algorithms, e.g. deep learning based methods. The suitable tracking and control strategies are developed to achieve accurate and robust in-row weed treatment, and the performance of the proposed system is evaluated in different terrain conditions in the presence of various delays.

Title: LSTM-based Network for Human Gait Stability Prediction in an Intelligent Robotic Rollator
Key Words: adaptive control  control engineering computing  gait analysis  geriatrics  handicapped aids  image colour analysis  intelligent robots  Kalman filters  laser ranging  learning (artificial intelligence)  medical robotics  mobile robots  nonlinear filters  pose estimation  robust control  state estimation  legs positions  UKF  pose estimation  deep learning  laser range finder data  augmented gait state estimation  human gait stability predictor  user-adaptive control architecture  unscented Kalman filter  body center of mass  long short term memory networks  robust predictions  encoder-decoder sequence  LRF data  nonwearable sensors  multimodal RGB-D  elderly users  intelligent robotic rollator  LSTM-based network  Stability analysis  Legged locomotion  Laser stability  Robot sensing systems  Senior citizens 
Abstract: In this work, we present a novel framework for on-line human gait stability prediction of the elderly users of an intelligent robotic rollator using Long Short Term Memory (LSTM) networks, fusing multimodal RGB-D and Laser Range Finder (LRF) data from non-wearable sensors. A Deep Learning (DL) based approach is used for the upper body pose estimation. The detected pose is used for estimating the body Center of Mass (CoM) using Unscented Kalman Filter (UKF). An Augmented Gait State Estimation framework exploits the LRF data to estimate the legs' positions and the respective gait phase. These estimates are the inputs of an encoder-decoder sequence to sequence model which predicts the gait stability state as Safe or Fall Risk walking. It is validated with data from real patients, by exploring different network architectures, hyperparameter settings and by comparing the proposed method with other baselines. The presented LSTM-based human gait stability predictor is shown to provide robust predictions of the human stability state, and thus has the potential to be integrated into a general user-adaptive control architecture as a fall-risk alarm.

Title: Urban Swarms: A new approach for autonomous waste management
Key Words: geographic information systems  mobile robots  multi-robot systems  navigation  path planning  refuse disposal  service robots  garbage collection scenarios  urban swarms  ecosystems  bio-inspired foraging methods  multiplace foraging  real-world GIS data  robot swarms  urban waste management system  stigmergy-based navigation  urban environment  swarm robotics system  autonomous waste management  Robots  Urban areas  Roads  Waste management  RFID tags  Swarm robotics  Batteries 
Abstract: Modern cities are growing ecosystems that face new challenges due to the increasing population demands. One of the many problems they face nowadays is waste management, which has become a pressing issue requiring new solutions. Swarm robotics systems have been attracting an increasing amount of attention in the past years and they are expected to become one of the main driving factors for innovation in the field of robotics. The research presented in this paper explores the feasibility of a swarm robotics system in an urban environment. By using bio-inspired foraging methods such as multi-place foraging and stigmergy-based navigation, a swarm of robots is able to improve the efficiency and autonomy of the urban waste management system in a realistic scenario. To achieve this, a diverse set of simulation experiments was conducted using real-world GIS data and implementing different garbage collection scenarios driven by robot swarms. Results presented in this research show that the proposed system outperforms current approaches. Moreover, results not only show the efficiency of our solution, but also give insights about how to design and customize these systems.

Title: Automated Aortic Pressure Regulation in ex vivo Heart Perfusion
Key Words: adaptive control  blood vessels  cardiovascular system  haemodynamics  physiological models  automated aortic pressure regulation  physiological aerobic metabolism  ex vivo heart perfusion  aortic pressure regulation  isolated porcine heart  animal hearts  control parameters  adaptation algorithm  virtual controller forms  nonlinear equivalent circuit fluid flow model  perfusion system  mathematical model  AoP regulation  adaptive controller  Heart  Adaptation models  Integrated circuit modeling  Mathematical model  Biochemistry  Predictive models  Trajectory 
Abstract: This paper presents the first system for automated ex vivo perfusion of an isolated heart and regulating the heart's aortic pressure (AoP). An adaptive controller was developed for AoP regulation and maintained the heart's physiological aerobic metabolism. A mathematical model of the perfusion system was established based on a nonlinear equivalent circuit fluid flow model. The model combined with a virtual controller forms a reference model to generate the ideal trajectory of AoP. An adaptation algorithm tunes the control parameters based on the reference model and the isolated heart. Experiments were conducted using large animal hearts (55±5 kg porcine, n=6) to validate the adaptive controller's performance for stepwise and fast switching AoP references. The results confirmed that the the proposed controller is able to regulate the AoP of an isolated porcine heart in an accurate (mean error less than 2 mmHg) and fast (4~8 s of settling time) manner.

Title: A Multi-Vehicle Trajectories Generator to Simulate Vehicle-to-Vehicle Encountering Scenarios
Key Words: mobile robots  path planning  position control  remotely operated vehicles  road traffic  road vehicles  vehicle-to-vehicle encountering scenarios  autonomous vehicle development  multivehicle trajectory generator  MTG  multivehicle interaction scenarios  driving encounter scenarios  multibranch decoder  vehicle-to-vehicle encounters  autonomous vehicles  Trajectory  Measurement  Decoding  Generators  Bidirectional control  Generative adversarial networks  Stability analysis 
Abstract: Generating multi-vehicle trajectories from existing limited data can provide rich resources for autonomous vehicle development and testing. This paper introduces a multi-vehicle trajectory generator (MTG) that can encode multi-vehicle interaction scenarios (called driving encounters) into an interpretable representation from which new driving encounter scenarios are generated by sampling. The MTG consists of a bi-directional encoder and a multi-branch decoder. A new disentanglement metric is then developed for model analyses and comparisons in terms of model robustness and the independence of the latent codes. Comparison of our proposed MTG with β-VAE and InfoGAN demonstrates that the MTG has stronger capability to purposely generate rational vehicle-to-vehicle encounters through operating the disentangled latent codes. Thus the MTG could provide more data for engineers and researchers to develop testing and evaluation scenarios for autonomous vehicles.

Title: Deep n-Shot Transfer Learning for Tactile Material Classification with a Flexible Pressure-Sensitive Skin
Key Words: convolutional neural nets  haptic interfaces  learning (artificial intelligence)  pattern classification  1-shot learning  knowledge transfer  deep n-shot transfer learning  tactile material classification  flexible pressure-sensitive skin  active sensing tasks  deep end-to-end transfer learning  deep convolutional neural network  superhuman tactile classification performance  Task analysis  Robot sensing systems  Feature extraction  Training  Skin  Learning systems 
Abstract: n-shot learning, i.e., learning a classifier from only few or even one training samples per class, is the ultimate goal in minimizing the cost of sample acquisition. This is esp. important for active sensing tasks like tactile material classification. Achieving high classification accuracy from only few samples is typically possible only when pre-knowledge is used. In n-shot transfer learning, knowledge from pre-training on a large knowledge set with many classes and samples per class has to be transferred to support the training for a given task set with only few samples per new class. In this paper, we show for the first time that deep end-to-end transfer learning is feasible for tactile material classification. Based on the previously presented (TactNet-II) [1], a deep convolutional neural network (CNN) which reaches superhuman tactile classification performance, we adapt state-of-the art deep transfer learning methods. We evaluate the resulting deep n-shot learning methods with a publicly available tactile material data set with 36 materials [1] in a 6-way n-shot learning task with 30 materials in the knowledge set. In 1-shot learning, our deep transfer learning method reaches 75.5% classification accuracy and in 10-shot more than 90%, outperforming classification without knowledge transfer by more than 40%. This results in an up to 15 time reduction in the number of samples needed to reach a desired accuracy level. We also provide insights of the inner workings of the derived deep transfer learning methods.

Title: Towards Effective Tactile Identification of Textures using a Hybrid Touch Approach
Key Words: convolutional neural nets  feature extraction  humanoid robots  image classification  image texture  learning (artificial intelligence)  neurocontrollers  recurrent neural nets  robot vision  tactile sensors  hybrid touch approach  human sense  interacted objects  standard sensory modalities  sliding movements  tactile-based texture classification  machine-learning methods  surface textures  hand-engineered features  recurrent neural network layers  feature representations  tactile data  touch data  tactile identification  sense of touch  touch movements  convolutional neural network layers  iCub platform  Support vector machines  Robot sensing systems  Standards  Machine learning  Recurrent neural networks 
Abstract: The sense of touch is arguably the first human sense to develop. Empowering robots with the sense of touch may augment their understanding of interacted objects and the environment beyond standard sensory modalities (e.g., vision). This paper investigates the effect of hybridizing touch and sliding movements for tactile-based texture classification. We develop three machine-learning methods within a framework to discriminate between surface textures; the first two methods use hand-engineered features, whilst the third leverages convolutional and recurrent neural network layers to learn feature representations from raw data. To compare these methods, we constructed a dataset comprising tactile data from 23 textures gathered using the iCub platform under a loosely constrained setup, i.e., with nonlinear motion. In line with findings from neuroscience, our experiments show that a good initial estimate can be obtained via touch data, which can be further refined via sliding; combining both touch and sliding data results in 98% classification accuracy over unseen test data.

Title: “Touching to See” and “Seeing to Feel”: Robotic Cross-modal Sensory Data Generation for Visual-Tactile Perception
Key Words: data visualisation  haptic interfaces  image texture  mobile robots  neural nets  robot vision  touch (physiological)  visual perception  robotic cross-modal sensory data generation  visual-tactile perception  visual-tactile stimulus  unimodal visual perception  robotic tasks  texture perception  conditional generative adversarial networks  pseudovisual images  tactile outputs  perception performance  sensory outputs  ViTac dataset  Robot sensing systems  Visualization  Task analysis  Image color analysis  Adaptation models 
Abstract: The integration of visual-tactile stimulus is common while humans performing daily tasks. In contrast, using unimodal visual or tactile perception limits the perceivable dimensionality of a subject. However, it remains a challenge to integrate the visual and tactile perception to facilitate robotic tasks. In this paper, we propose a novel framework for the cross-modal sensory data generation for visual and tactile perception. Taking texture perception as an example, we apply conditional generative adversarial networks to generate pseudo visual images or tactile outputs from data of the other modality. Extensive experiments on the ViTac dataset of cloth textures show that the proposed method can produce realistic outputs from other sensory inputs. We adopt the structural similarity index to evaluate similarity of the generated output and real data and results show that realistic data have been generated. Classification evaluation has also been performed to show that the inclusion of generated data can improve the perception performance. The proposed framework has potential to expand datasets for classification tasks, generate sensory outputs that are not easy to access, and also advance integrated visual-tactile perception.

Title: Shear-invariant Sliding Contact Perception with a Soft Tactile Sensor
Key Words: manipulators  principal component analysis  shear deformation  tactile sensors  continuous contact data  shear deformation  output path-dependent readings  contact readings  continuous-contact tasks  sensor signal  shear-invariant perception method  principal component analysis  sliding motion  compliant tactile sensor  continuous tactile contact  contour-following task  soft tactile sensor  manipulation tasks  tactile perception systems  shear-invariant sliding contact perception  Principal component analysis  Training  Tactile sensors  Task analysis  Feature extraction 
Abstract: Manipulation tasks often require robots to be continuously in contact with an object. Therefore tactile perception systems need to handle continuous contact data. Shear deformation causes the tactile sensor to output path-dependent readings in contrast to discrete contact readings. As such, in some continuous-contact tasks, sliding can be regarded as a disturbance over the sensor signal. Here we present a shear-invariant perception method based on principal component analysis (PCA) which outputs the required information about the environment despite sliding motion. A compliant tactile sensor (the TacTip) is used to investigate continuous tactile contact. First, we evaluate the method offline using test data collected whilst the sensor slides over an edge. Then, the method is used within a contour-following task applied to 6 objects with varying curvatures; all contours are successfully traced. The method demonstrates generalisation capabilities and could underlie a more sophisticated controller for challenging manipulation or exploration tasks in unstructured environments.

Title: Soft tactile sensing: retrieving force, torque and contact point information from deformable surfaces
Key Words: force measurement  force sensors  iterative methods  surface topography measurement  tactile sensors  torque measurement  contact point information  geometric surface description  contact centroid  force-deformation characteristics  force-indentation behavior  intrinsic soft tactile sensing  ITS  iterative procedure  soft surface deformation characteristics  ellipsoid silicone specimens  ROS-based toolbox  Robot sensing systems  Force  Surface impedance  Mathematical model  Strain 
Abstract: Intrinsic Tactile Sensing (ITS) is a well-established technique, relying on force/torque and geometric surface description to find contact centroids. The method works well for rigid surfaces. However, finding a solution for deformable surfaces is an open issue. This work presents two solutions to extend ITS to deformable surfaces, relying on force-deformation characteristics of the surface under exploration: (i) a closed-form approach that calculates the contact centroid using standard ITS, but on a shrunk geometry approximating the deformed surface; (ii) an iterative procedure that takes into account soft surface deformation, and force/torque equilibrium to minimize a cost function. We have tested both using ellipsoid silicone specimens, with different softness levels and indented along different directions. Both linear and quadratic fitting for the force-indentation behavior were employed. The two methods have distinct advantages and limitations. However, a combination of two methods, using one to produce the initial guess for the other, turns out to be very effective. Indeed, in our validation this solution showed convergence under 1ms, attaining errors lower than 1 mm. The proposed approaches were implemented in a ROS-based toolbox, integrating both solutions.

Title: Miniaturization of multistage high dynamic range six-axis force sensor composed of resin material
Key Words: learning (artificial intelligence)  mobile robots  motion control  path planning  robot vision  mobile robots  learning (artificial intelligence)  robot vision  path planning  motion control  medical robotics  optimisation  object detection  position control  collision avoidance  Force sensors  Structural beams  Force  Robot sensing systems  Stress  Strain  Creep 
Abstract: The following topics are dealt with: mobile robots; learning (artificial intelligence); robot vision; path planning; motion control; medical robotics; optimisation; object detection; position control; collision avoidance.

Title: Robots Learn Social Skills: End-to-End Learning of Co-Speech Gesture Generation for Humanoid Robots
Key Words: gesture recognition  humanoid robots  human-robot interaction  knowledge based systems  learning (artificial intelligence)  mobile robots  neural nets  speech recognition  text analysis  TED talks  NAO robot  speech text understanding  end-to-end neural network model  learning-based co-speech gesture generation  human labor  rule-based speech-gesture association  humanoid robots  end-to-end learning  robots learn social skills  Robots  Videos  Decoding  Natural languages  Training  Recurrent neural networks  Principal component analysis 
Abstract: Co-speech gestures enhance interaction experiences between humans as well as between humans and robots. Most existing robots use rule-based speech-gesture association, but this requires human labor and prior knowledge of experts to be implemented. We present a learning-based co-speech gesture generation that is learned from 52 h of TED talks. The proposed end-to-end neural network model consists of an encoder for speech text understanding and a decoder to generate a sequence of gestures. The model successfully produces various gestures including iconic, metaphoric, deictic, and beat gestures. In a subjective evaluation, participants reported that the gestures were human-like and matched the speech content. We also demonstrate a co-speech gesture with a NAO robot working in real time.

Title: The Doctor will See You Now: Could a Robot Be a medical Receptionist?
Key Words: human computer interaction  human-robot interaction  interactive systems  medical administrative data processing  visual perception  personal friend  doctor  medical receptionist  robotic system  clinic visit  wizard-of-Oz study  friendly receptionist  people perceptions  Educational robots  Medical services  Service robots  Head  Task analysis  Software 
Abstract: A robot cannot be warm and friendly - or can it? To explore whether a robot can be a medical receptionist, we developed a robotic system for interacting with patients at a doctor's clinic, including acting friendly. We designed the robot to interact naturally with patients at the start and finish of a clinic visit. We investigated people's perceptions to the robot in a wizard-of-Oz study, where the participants interacted with the robot over four interactions. 40 participants evaluated the robot. The results indicate the participants thought the robot could be a friendly receptionist, especially after repeated interactions with the robot. However, the participants mainly thought the robot was friendly in a “professional” way, rather than a personal friend.

Title: Designing a Personality-Driven Robot for a Human-Robot Interaction Scenario
Key Words: control engineering computing  convolutional neural nets  game theory  humanoid robots  human-robot interaction  psychology  autonomous AI system  dice game scenario  competitive personality  humanoid robot  user interaction  turn-taking dice game  HRI scenario  human-robot interaction scenario  convolutional neural network  participants facial feedback  socially engaged personality  godspeed questionnaire  mind perception questionnaire  personality-driven robot  Robots  Games  Task analysis  Grasping  Natural languages  Face  Visualization 
Abstract: In this paper, we present an autonomous AI system designed for a Human-Robot Interaction (HRI) study, set around a dice game scenario. We conduct a case study to answer our research question: Does a robot with a socially engaged personality lead to a higher acceptance than a competitive personality? The flexibility of our proposed system allows us to construct and attribute two different personalities to a humanoid robot: a socially engaged personality that maximizes its user interaction and a competitive personality that is focused on playing and winning the game. We evaluate both personalities in a user study, in which the participants play a turn-taking dice game with the robot. Each personality is assessed with four different evaluation tools: 1) the Godspeed Questionnaire, 2) the Mind Perception Questionnaire, 3) a custom questionnaire concerning the overall HRI experience, and 4) a Convolutional Neural Network analyzing the emotions on the participants' facial feedback throughout the game. Our results show that the socially engaged personality evokes stronger emotions among the participants and is rated higher in likability and animacy than the competitive one. We conclude that designing the robot with a socially engaged personality contributes to a higher acceptance within an HRI scenario.

Title: How Shall I Drive? Interaction Modeling and Motion Planning towards Empathetic and Socially-Graceful Driving
Key Words: game theory  intelligent robots  learning (artificial intelligence)  mobile robots  path planning  predictive control  remotely operated vehicles  AV  human driver  social awareness  passive-aggressive motions  interaction modeling  socially-graceful driving  autonomous vehicles  two-player game  model predictive control  social gracefulness  intent inference  motion planning  Planning  Games  Vehicles  Adaptation models  Inference algorithms  Estimation  Loss measurement 
Abstract: While intelligence of autonomous vehicles (AVs) has significantly advanced in recent years, accidents involving AVs suggest that these autonomous systems lack gracefulness in driving when interacting with human drivers. In the setting of a two-player game, we propose model predictive control based on social gracefulness, which is measured by the discrepancy between the actions taken by the AV and those that could have been taken in favor of the human driver. We define social awareness as the ability of an agent to infer such favorable actions based on knowledge about the other agent's intent, and further show that empathy, i.e., the ability to understand others' intent by simultaneously inferring others' understanding of the agent's self intent, is critical to successful intent inference. Lastly, through an intersection case, we show that the proposed gracefulness objective allows an AV to learn more sophisticated behavior, such as passive-aggressive motions that gently force the other agent to yield.

Title: Detection-by-Localization: Maintenance-Free Change Object Detector
Key Words: feature extraction  image fusion  image retrieval  image segmentation  object detection  query processing  robot vision  object-level subimages  pixel-wise LoC maps  detection-by-localization scheme  ranking function  ranked list  ranking based self-localization model  unsupervised rank fusion  cross-season change detection  maintenance-free change object detector  likelihood-of-change  object-level change detection  generalized task  query image  subimagelevel pixel-wise LoC maps  publicly available North Campus Long-Term dataset  publicly available NCLT dataset  multimodal information retrieval  MMR  Image segmentation  Task analysis  Robots  Computational modeling  Visualization  Databases  Real-time systems 
Abstract: Recent researches demonstrate that selflocalization performance is a very useful measure of likelihood-of-change (LoC) for change detection. In this paper, this “detection-by-localization” scheme is studied in a novel generalized task of object-level change detection. In our framework, a given query image is segmented into object-level subimages (termed “scene parts”), which are then converted to subimagelevel pixel-wise LoC maps via the detection-by-localization scheme. Our approach models a self-localization system as a ranking function, outputting a ranked list of reference images, without requiring relevance score. Thanks to this new setting, we can generalize our approach to a broad class of selflocalization systems. We further propose an aggregation of different self-localization results from different queries so as to achieve higher precision. Our ranking based self-localization model allows to fuse self-localization results from different modalities via an unsupervised rank fusion derived from a field of multi-modal information retrieval (MMR). Our framework does not rely on the raw-score-merging hypothesis. Challenging experiments of cross-season change detection using the publicly available North Campus Long-Term (NCLT) dataset validates the efficacy of our proposed method.

Title: Customized Object Recognition and Segmentation by One Shot Learning with Human Robot Interaction
Key Words: Big Data  human-robot interaction  image segmentation  learning (artificial intelligence)  neural nets  object detection  object recognition  human robot interaction  robotic applications  deep learning models  labeled training data  pre-defined big data  segmentation method  target object  data generation method  segmentation model  lightweight segmentation net  object recognition  one shot learning  Proposals  Robots  Adaptation models  Training data  Data models  Object recognition  Testing 
Abstract: There are two difficulties to utilize state-of-the-art object recognition/detection/segmentation methods to robotic applications. First, most of the deep learning models heavily depend on large amounts of labeled training data, which are expensive to obtain for each individual application. Second, the object categories must be pre-defined in the dataset, thus not practical to scenarios with varying object categories. To alleviate the reliance on pre-defined big data, this paper proposes a customized object recognition and segmentation method. It aims to recognize and segment any object defined by the user, given only one annotation. There are three steps in the proposed method. First, the user takes an exemplar video of the target object with the robot, defines its name, and mask its boundary on only one frame. Then the robot automatically propagates the annotation through the exemplar video based on a proposed data generation method. In the meantime, a segmentation model continuously updates itself on the generated data. Finally, only a lightweight segmentation net is required at testing stage, to recognize and segment the user-defined object in any scenes.

Title: SEG-VoxelNet for 3D Vehicle Detection from RGB and LiDAR Data
Key Words: image colour analysis  image segmentation  object detection  optical radar  SEG-VoxelNet  LiDAR data  RGB images  LiDAR point clouds  autonomous driving scenarios  semantic segmentation technique  3D LiDAR point cloud based detection  image semantic segmentation network  SEG-Net  improved-VoxelNet  semantic segmentation map  point cloud data  image semantic feature  KITTI 3D vehicle detection benchmark  Three-dimensional displays  Laser radar  Semantics  Vehicle detection  Feature extraction  Image segmentation  Two dimensional displays 
Abstract: This paper proposes a SEG-VoxelNet that takes RGB images and LiDAR point clouds as inputs for accurately detecting 3D vehicles in autonomous driving scenarios, which for the first time introduces semantic segmentation technique to assist the 3D LiDAR point cloud based detection. Specifically, SEG-VoxelNet is composed of two sub-networks: an image semantic segmentation network (SEG-Net) and an improved-VoxelNet. The SEG-Net generates the semantic segmentation map which represents the probability of the category for each pixel. The improved-VoxelNet is capable of effectively fusing point cloud data with image semantic feature and generating accurate 3D bounding boxes of vehicles. Experiments on the KITTI 3D vehicle detection benchmark show that our approach outperforms the methods of state-of-the-art.

Title: Object Classification Based on Unsupervised Learned Multi-Modal Features For Overcoming Sensor Failures
Key Words: driver information systems  feature extraction  image classification  image fusion  unsupervised learning  unsupervised learned multimodal features  autonomous driving applications  road users  road side infrastructure  autonomous cars  classification modules  unseen sensor noise  object classification module  total sensor failure  unsupervised feature training  uni-modal classifiers training  multimodal classifiers training  feature space  sensor modalities  decision module  unsupervised learned multi-modal features  Three-dimensional displays  Feature extraction  Robot sensing systems  Computer architecture  Training  Decoding  Convolutional codes 
Abstract: For autonomous driving applications it is critical to know which type of road users and road side infrastructure are present to plan driving manoeuvres accordingly. Therefore autonomous cars are equipped with different sensor modalities to robustly perceive its environment. However, for classification modules based on machine learning techniques it is challenging to overcome unseen sensor noise. This work presents an object classification module operating on unsupervised learned multi-modal features with the ability to overcome gradual or total sensor failure. A two stage approach composed of an unsupervised feature training and a uni-modal and multimodal classifiers training is presented. We propose a simple but effective decision module switching between uni-modal and multi-modal classifiers based on the closeness in the feature space to the training data. Evaluations on the ModelNet 40 data set show that the proposed approach has a 14% accuracy gain compared to a late fusion approach operating on a noisy point cloud data and a 6% accuracy gain when operating on noisy image data.

Title: SqueezeSegV2: Improved Model Structure and Unsupervised Domain Adaptation for Road-Object Segmentation from a LiDAR Point Cloud
Key Words: image segmentation  object detection  optical radar  rendering (computer graphics)  unsupervised learning  LiDAR point cloud  deep-learning-based approaches  point cloud segmentation  SqueezeSetV2  data collection  domain-adaptation training pipeline  domain adaptation pipeline  unsupervised domain adaptation  road-object segmentation  domain-adaptation methods  Three-dimensional displays  Laser radar  Training  Adaptation models  Data models  Pipelines  Sensors 
Abstract: Earlier work demonstrates the promise of deep-learning-based approaches for point cloud segmentation; however, these approaches need to be improved to be practically useful. To this end, we introduce a new model SqueezeSegV2. With an improved model structure, SqueezeSetV2 is more robust against dropout noises in LiDAR point cloud and therefore achieves significant accuracy improvement. Training models for point cloud segmentation requires large amounts of labeled data, which is expensive to obtain. To sidestep the cost of data collection and annotation, simulators such as GTA-V can be used to create unlimited amounts of labeled, synthetic data. However, due to domain shift, models trained on synthetic data often do not generalize well to the real world. Existing domain-adaptation methods mainly focus on images and most of them cannot be directly applied to point clouds. We address this problem with a domain-adaptation training pipeline consisting of three major components: 1) learned intensity rendering, 2) geodesic correlation alignment, and 3) progressive domain calibration. When trained on real data, our new model exhibits segmentation accuracy improvements of 6.0-8.6% over the original SqueezeSeg. When training our new model on synthetic data using the proposed domain adaptation pipeline, we nearly double test accuracy on real-world data, from 29.0% to 57.4%. Our source code and synthetic dataset are open sourced. https://github.com/xuanyuzhou98/SqueezeSegV2.

Title: RoPose-Real: Real World Dataset Acquisition for Data-Driven Industrial Robot Arm Pose Estimation
Key Words: control engineering computing  convolutional neural nets  industrial manipulators  manipulator kinematics  pose estimation  production engineering computing  robot system  world robotic scenario  world dataset acquisition  data-driven industrial robot arm pose estimation  smart sensory systems  industrial robots  mobile platforms  convolutional neural network architecture  industrial robot arm system  automatically annotated datasets  extracted pose information  RoPose-system  Calibration  Robot kinematics  Cameras  Robot vision systems  Tools 
Abstract: It is necessary to employ smart sensory systems in dynamic and mobile workspaces where industrial robots are mounted on mobile platforms. Such systems should be aware of flexible and non-stationary workspaces and able to react autonomously to changing situations. Building upon our previously presented RoPose-system [1], which employs a convolutional neural network architecture that has been trained on pure synthetic data to estimate the kinematic chain of an industrial robot arm system, we now present RoPose-Real. RoPose-Real extends the prior system with a comfortable and targetless extrinsic calibration tool, to allow for the production of automatically annotated datasets for real robot systems. Furthermore, we use the novel datasets to train the estimation network with real world data. The extracted pose information is used to automatically estimate the observing sensor pose relative to the robot system. Finally we evaluate the performance of the presented subsystems in a real world robotic scenario.

Title: A Framework for Self-Training Perceptual Agents in Simulated Photorealistic Environments
Key Words: computer games  learning (artificial intelligence)  mobile robots  object recognition  robot vision  virtual reality  self-training perceptual agents  simulated photorealistic environments  high-performance perception  mobile robotic agents  gaming industry  game engines  perceptual agent  virtual environment  task-specific object distribution  description language  learning environments  object recognition  sensory input  robotic system  Task analysis  Robots  Training data  Engines  Virtual environments  Games  Data models  Self-Training Perception  Robotic Simulation  Unreal Engine  Scenario Description 
Abstract: The development of high-performance perception for mobile robotic agents is still challenging. Learning appropriate perception models usually requires extensive amounts of labeled training data that ideally follows the same distribution as the data an agent will encounter in its target task. Recent developments in gaming industry led to game engines able to generate photorealistic environments in real-time, which can be used to realistically simulate the sensory input of an agent.We propose a novel framework which allows the definition of different learning scenarios and instantiates these scenarios in a high quality game engine where a perceptual agent can act and learn in. The scenarios are specified in a newly developed scenario description language that allows the parametrization of the virtual environment and the perceptual agent. New scenarios can be sampled from a task-specific object distribution that allows the automatic generation of extensive amounts of different learning environments for the perceptual agent.We will demonstrate the plausibility of the framework by conducting object recognition experiments on a real robotic system which has been trained within our framework.

Title: Fast and Precise Detection of Object Grasping Positions with Eigenvalue Templates
Key Words: dexterous manipulators  eigenvalues and eigenfunctions  grippers  industrial robots  object detection  position control  singular value decomposition  hand templates  target object  optimum grasping posture  singular value decomposition  eigenvalue templates  parallel hands  three-finger hands  industrial robots  object grasping position detection  fast graspability evaluation  eigenfunctions  arbitrary parameters  Eigenvalues and eigenfunctions  Grasping  Convolution  Three-dimensional displays  Collision avoidance  Service robots 
Abstract: Fast Graspability Evaluation (FGE) has been proposed as a method for detecting grasping positions on objects and is now being used for industrial robots. FGE uses convolution of hand templates with regions on the target object to estimate the optimum grasping posture. However, the hand opening width and rotation angles must be set with high resolution to achieve highly accurate results and the computational load is high. To address that issue, we propose a method in which hand templates are represented in compact form for faster processing by using singular value decomposition. Applying singular value decomposition enables hand templates to be represented as linear combinations of a small number of eigenvalue templates and eigenfunctions. Eigenfunctions take discrete values, but response values can be calculated with arbitrary parameters by fitting a continuous function. Experimental results show that the proposed method reduces computation time by two thirds while maintaining the same detection accuracy as conventional FGE for both parallel hands and three-finger hands.

Title: Improved Coverage Path Planning Using a Virtual Sensor Footprint: a Case Study on Demining
Key Words: mobile robots  optimisation  path planning  sensors  physical sensor  virtual footprint  optimization problem  energy performances  virtual sensor footprint  coverage path planning problem  robotic arm  larger areas  platform moves  larger footprint  metal detector  Robot sensing systems  Manipulators  Metals  Detectors  Trajectory  Shape 
Abstract: Coverage performance in a coverage path planning problem depends both on the path created and on the footprint of the sensor used. The footprint can be increased either by increasing the size of the sensor, or by mounting the sensor on a robotic arm to allow scanning over larger areas as the platform moves, effectively creating a virtual sensor with a larger footprint than the physical sensor's. However, the virtual footprint comes at a cost requiring formulating an optimization problem for the area of interest. In this work, three common strategies to use a metal detector on a platform are discussed, their time and energy performances are formulated and the corresponding optima are found.

Title: Model-Based Estimation of the Gravity-Loaded Shape and Scene Depth for a Slim 3-Actuator Continuum Robot with Monocular Visual Feedback
Key Words: actuators  cameras  feedback  gravity  image filtering  Kalman filters  manipulator kinematics  motion control  nonlinear filters  robot vision  shape control  shape measurement  model-based estimation  slim 3-actuator continuum robot  separately modeled segments  actuated segments  gravity-loaded shape estimation  scene depth estimation  monocular visual feedback  robot movements  manipulation capabilities  confined spaces  robot control  constant curvature  variable curvature  spatial locations  robot shape  monocular camera  unscented Kalman filters  UKF  feature depth estimation  robot kinematics model  motion control  Cameras  Estimation  Conferences  Automation  IEEE members  Kinematics  Predictive models 
Abstract: Fruitful developments on continuum robots have been witnessed in recent years due to their movements and manipulation capabilities in confined spaces. Due to the nature that a continuum robot has an infinite number of DoFs (Degrees of Freedom), majority of the existing systems deployed abundant actuators such that the robot can be controlled in separately modeled and actuated segments with constant or variable curvature. As the shape of a continuum robot is always jointly determined by its actuation and the interactions from the environment, it is hence worth exploring the opposite approach that how a task can be accomplished with a minimal number of actuators. This paper presents the first step of such an investigation where a slim 3-actuator continuum robot is actuated to reach different spatial locations under gravity. As the gravity greatly affects the robot's shape, a monocular camera, together with two UKFs (Unscented Kalman Filters), was used to concurrently estimate the robot's shape and the feature depth. Then the estimated shape can be used in updating the kinematics model of the robot to achieve motion control. Experiments were conducted to validate the effectiveness of the proposed shape estimation, which promises the motion control implementation in the near future work.

Title: Design of a Modular Continuum Robot Segment for use in a General Purpose Manipulator*
Key Words: actuators  bending  control system synthesis  DC motors  manipulators  motion control  position control  three-dimensional printing  torsion  modular continuum robot segment  general purpose manipulator  tendon-driven continuum robot segment  modular design  continuous flexible core  rigid interlocking vertebrae  torsional movement  antagonistic tendon pairs  single geared DC motor  bulky actuation unit  torsional rigidity  rigid vertebrae  tendons  multimaterial 3D printing  Tendons  Manipulators  Actuators  Routing  Shafts 
Abstract: This paper presents the development of a tendon-driven continuum robot segment with a modular design, simple construction and significant lifting capabilities. The segment features a continuous flexible core combined with rigid interlocking vertebrae evenly distributed along its length. This design allows bending in two degrees of freedom while minimising torsional movement. The segment is actuated by two antagonistic tendon pairs, each of which is driven by a single geared DC motor. Modularity is achieved by embedding these motors in one end of the segment, avoiding the need for a bulky actuation unit and allowing variable numbers of segments to be connected. The design features a large hollow central bore which could be used as a vacuum channel for suction-assisted gripping or to allow ingress and egress of fluids. The design process goes through four iterations, the final two of which are subjected to quantitative experiments to evaluate workspace, lifting capabilities and torsional rigidity. All iterations are fabricated using multi-material 3D printing, which allows the entire structure to be printed as a pre-assembled unit with the rigid vertebrae fused to the flexible core. Assembly is then a simple case of inserting the motors and connecting the tendons. This unconventional manufacturing approach is found to be efficient, effective and relatively cheap.

Title: Reshaping Particle Configurations by Collisions with Rigid Objects
Key Words: actuators  collision avoidance  multi-robot systems  shear modulus  uniform global external field  magnetic fields  workspace obstacles  shape control  navigation  driving force  torque  rectangular rigid body  particle group  circular workspace  mean variance configurations  Shape  Force  Torque  Shape control  Magnetic resonance imaging  Magnetoacoustic effects  Correlation 
Abstract: Consider many particles actuated by a uniform global external field (e.g. gravitational or magnetic fields). This paper presents analytical results using workspace obstacles and global inputs to reshape such a group of particles. Shape control of many particles is necessary for conveying information, construction, and navigation. First we show how the particles' characteristic angle of repose can be used to reshape the particles by controlling angle of attack and the magnitude of the driving force. These can then be used to control the force and torque applied to a rectangular rigid body. Next, we examine the full set of stable, achievable mean and variance configurations for the shape of a particle group in two canonical environments: a square and a circular workspace. Finally, we show how workspaces with linear boundary layers can be used to achieve a more rich set of mean and variance configurations.

Title: Velocity Constrained Trajectory Generation for a Collinear Mecanum Wheeled Robot
Key Words: mobile robots  path planning  trajectory control  velocity constrained trajectory generation  underactuated unstable aerial vehicles  linear accelerations  trajectory planner  trajectory timing characteristics  omnidirectional balancing robot  collinear Mecanum wheeled robot  ground based omnidirectional dynamically balancing robots  trajectory optimisation methods  differentially flat model  collinear Mecanum drive  Trajectory  Planning  Wheels  Mobile robots  Transmission line matrix methods  Acceleration 
Abstract: While much research has been conducted into the generation of smooth trajectories for underactuated unstable aerial vehicles such as quadrotors, less attention has been paid to the application of the same techniques to ground based omnidirectional dynamically balancing robots. These systems have more control authority over their linear accelerations than aerial vehicles, meaning trajectory smoothness is less of a critical design parameter. However, when operating in indoor environments these systems must often adhere to relatively low velocity constraints, resulting in very conservative trajectories when enforced using existing trajectory optimisation methods. This paper makes two contributions; this gap is bridged by the extension of these existing methods to create a fast velocity constrained trajectory planner, with trajectory timing characteristics derived from the optimal minimum-time solution of a simplified acceleration and velocity constrained model. Next, a differentially flat model of an omnidirectional balancing robot utilizing a collinear Mecanum drive is derived, which is used to allow an experimental prototype of this configuration to smoothly follow these velocity constrained trajectories.

Title: Vibration Control for Manipulators on a Translationally Flexible Base
Key Words: damping  flexible manipulators  Lyapunov methods  manipulator dynamics  numerical analysis  springs (mechanical)  stability  vibration control  vibration control  manipulators  translationally flexible base  fundamental oscillatory system  mass spring system  control strategy couples  n-link manipulator  linear translational stiffness  conditional stability argument  base vibrations  input transformation  coordinate transformation  semidefinite Lyapunov functions  Vibrations  Manipulator dynamics  Task analysis  Robot kinematics  Damping 
Abstract: In this contribution the problem of vibration control is studied on the basis of a fundamental oscillatory system consisting of a mass spring system and an additional mass. The proposed control strategy couples the orbits of the two masses such that both masses stop, while simultaneously stabilizing the second mass to a desired equilibrium. Using a coordinate and input transformation, the control strategy is directly transferred to an n-link manipulator mounted on a base with linear translational stiffness. Using semidefinite Lyapunov functions and a conditional stability argument, it is shown that the proposed control strategy damps out base vibrations, while additionally achieving a desired configuration in the task-space. Finally, the proposed method is compared to a state-of-the-art approach using numerical simulations.

Title: Gaussian Processes Model-Based Control of Underactuated Balance Robots
Key Words: control system synthesis  Gaussian processes  mobile robots  pendulums  predictive control  robot dynamics  robust control  trajectory control  control design  robot dynamics  underactuated balance robot  model predictive control  Gaussian process regression model  trajectory tracking  learning-based control  GP model  robustness  Furuta pendulum system  Trajectory  Mathematical model  Computational modeling  Robot kinematics  Predictive models  Trajectory tracking 
Abstract: Control of underactuated balance robot requires external subsystem trajectory tracking and internal unstable subsystem balancing with limited control authority. We present a learning-based control approach for underactuated balance robots. The tracking and balancing control is designed the controller in fast- and slow-time scales. In the slow-time scale, model predictive control is adopted to plan desired internal state profile to achieve external trajectory tracking task. The internal state is then stabilized around the planned profile in the fast-time scale. The control design is based on a learned Gaussian process (GP) regression model without need of a priori knowledge about the robot dynamics. The controller also incorporates the GP model predicted variance to enhance robustness to modeling errors. Experiments are presented using a Furuta pendulum system.

Title: Analysis of 3D Position Control for a Multi-Agent System of Self-Propelled Agents Steered by a Shared, Global Control Input
Key Words: closed loop systems  controllability  matrix algebra  multi-agent systems  multi-robot systems  nonlinear control systems  position control  control laws  multiagent system  self-propelled agents  shared control input  global control input  3D multiagent position control  control inputs  rotation commands  rotation matrix  controllability results  2D case  Three-dimensional displays  Two dimensional displays  Orbits  Position control  Perturbation methods  Aerospace electronics  Robots 
Abstract: This paper investigates strategies for 3D multi-agent position control using a shared control input and self-propelled agents. The only control inputs allowed are rotation commands that rotate all agents by the same rotation matrix. In the 2D case, only two degrees-of-freedom (DOF) in position are controllable. We review controllability results in 2D, and then show that interesting things happen in 3D. We provide control laws for steering up to nine DOF in position, which can be mapped in various ways, including to control the x, y, z position of three agents, make four agents meet, or reduce the spread of n agents.

Title: A Heuristic for Task Allocation and Routing of Heterogeneous Robots while Minimizing Maximum Travel Cost
Key Words: approximation theory  minimax techniques  path planning  robots  travelling salesman problems  task allocation  heterogeneous robots  path planning problem  min-max objective  min-max MDHTSP  travel cost  multiple depot heterogeneous traveling salesman problem  primal-dual technique  Robots  Task analysis  Routing  Resource management  Traveling salesman problems  Approximation algorithms  Heuristic algorithms 
Abstract: The article proposes a new heuristic for task allocation and routing of heterogeneous robots. Specifically, we consider a path planning problem where there are two (structurally) heterogeneous robots that start from distinctive depots and a set of targets to visit. The objective is to find a tour for each robot in a manner that enables each target location to be visited at least once by one of the robots while minimizing the maximum travel cost. A solution for Multiple Depot Heterogeneous Traveling Salesman Problem (MDHTSP) with min-max objective is in great demand with many potential applications, because it can significantly reduce the job completion duration. However, there are still no reliable algorithms that can run in short amount of time. As an initial idea of solving min-max MDHTSP, we present a heuristic based on a primal-dual technique that solves for a case involving two robots while focusing on task allocation. Based on computational results of the implementation, we show that the proposed algorithm produces a good quality of feasible solution within a relatively short computation time.

Title: Solving Methods for Multi-Robot Missions Planning with Energy Capacity Consideration
Key Words: autonomous aerial vehicles  iterative methods  matrix algebra  minimisation  multi-robot systems  path planning  distance matrix  multiphase heuristic  two-phase iterative heuristic  branch-and-cut algorithm  decomposition-based approximate methods  high quality solutions  heterogeneous vehicles  energy capacity consideration  multirobot missions planning  Robots  Iterative methods  Task analysis  Linear programming  Planning  Resource management  Routing 
Abstract: We consider a problem minimizing the total duration of accomplishing missions performed by heterogeneous vehicles. The problem respects constraints related to vehicles' capabilities and energy capacities. The goal is to determine the best routes of each vehicle deployed by choosing which waypoints to pass and which observations to perform. Each vehicle has a particular distance matrix and a limited energy. In order to provide high quality solutions within reasonable computational time, two decomposition-based approximate methods were implemented: (i) the Multiphase heuristic, and (ii) the Two-Phase iterative heuristic. The performance of the methods is evaluated against the Branch-and-Cut algorithm using generated instances.

Title: Salty-A Domain Specific Language for GR(1) Specifications and Designs
Key Words: autonomous aerial vehicles  control system synthesis  formal specification  mobile robots  path planning  program debugging  remotely operated vehicles  specification languages  sanity checking  high-level specifications  domain-specific language  specification optimization  robot controller design  specification patterns  Salty domain specific language  GR(1) specifications  correct-by-construction synthesis approach  generalized reactivity(1) specifications  Slugs synthesis tool  multiple unmanned air vehicles  UAV  Target tracking  Robot kinematics  Tools  Software  Unmanned aerial vehicles  Control systems 
Abstract: Designing robot controllers that correctly react to changes in the environment is a time-consuming and error-prone process. An alternative is to use “correct-by-construction” synthesis approaches to automatically generate controller designs from high-level specifications. In particular, Generalized Reactivity(l) or GR(1) specifications are well-suited to express specifications for robots that must act in dynamic environments, and approaches to generate controller designs from GR(1) specifications are highly computationally efficient. Toward that end, this paper presents Salty, a domain-specific language for GR(1) specifications. While tools exist to synthesize system designs from GR(1) specifications, Salty makes such specifications easier to write and debug by supporting features such as richer input and output types, user-defined macros, common specification patterns, and specification optimization and sanity checking. Salty interfaces with the separately developed synthesis tool Slugs to produce a system or controller design, and Salty translates this design to a software implementation in a variety of languages. We demonstrate Salty on an application involving coordination of multiple unmanned air vehicles (UAVs) and provide a workflow for connecting synthesized UAV controllers to freely available UAV planning and simulation software suites UxAS and AMASE.

Title: Persistent Multi-Robot Mapping in an Uncertain Environment
Key Words: mobile robots  multi-agent systems  multi-robot systems  path planning  probability  multiagent spatio-temporal states  world model  persistent multirobot mapping  uncertain environment  constrained energy capacities  typical occupancy map approaches  static world  occupancy probability  grid cells  promotes revisitation  unchanging areas  naive planning  tractable subproblems  tractable computation time  Robots  Clustering algorithms  Indexes  Planning  Computational modeling  Sensors  Heuristic algorithms 
Abstract: This paper proposes a method to deploy teams of robots with constrained energy capacities to persistently maintain a map of an uncertain environment. Typical occupancy map approaches assume a static world; however, we introduce a decay in confidence that degrades the occupancy probability of grid cells and promotes revisitation. Further, sections of the map whose occupancy differs between observations are visited more frequently, while unchanging areas are scheduled less frequently. While naive planning is intractable through the entire space of multi-agent spatio-temporal states, the proposed algorithm decouples planning such that constraints are resolved separately by solving tracTable subproblems. We evaluate this approach in simulation and show how the uncertainty of our world model is maintained below an acceptable threshold while the algorithm retains a tractable computation time.

Title: A Fog Robotics Approach to Deep Robot Learning: Application to Object Recognition and Grasp Planning in Surface Decluttering
Key Words: cloud computing  control engineering computing  learning (artificial intelligence)  mobile robots  object recognition  path planning  robot programming  robot vision  storage management  fog robotics  mobile robot  grasp planning model  nonpublic synthetic images  deep object recognition  nonprivate synthetic images  deep models  centralized Cloud Robotics model  surface decluttering  deep robot learning  Cloud computing  Robot sensing systems  Computational modeling  Adaptation models  Security  Data models 
Abstract: The growing demand of industrial, automotive and service robots presents a challenge to the centralized Cloud Robotics model in terms of privacy, security, latency, bandwidth, and reliability. In this paper, we present a `Fog Robotics' approach to deep robot learning that distributes compute, storage and networking resources between the Cloud and the Edge in a federated manner. Deep models are trained on non-private (public) synthetic images in the Cloud; the models are adapted to the private real images of the environment at the Edge within a trusted network and subsequently, deployed as a service for low-latency and secure inference/prediction for other robots in the network. We apply this approach to surface decluttering, where a mobile robot picks and sorts objects from a cluttered floor by learning a deep object recognition and a grasp planning model. Experiments suggest that Fog Robotics can improve performance by sim-to-real domain adaptation in comparison to exclusively using Cloud or Edge resources, while reducing the inference cycle time by 4× to successfully declutter 86% of objects over 213 attempts.

Title: Streamlines for Motion Planning in Underwater Currents
Key Words: autonomous underwater vehicles  motion control  path planning  reachability analysis  sampling methods  stream functions  control space  complicated flows  underwater currents  underwater vehicles  ocean currents  reachability  sampling-based motion planning  Australia  Aerospace electronics  Planning  Underwater vehicles  Two dimensional displays  Oceans  Australia  Level set 
Abstract: Motion planning for underwater vehicles must consider the effect of ocean currents. We present an efficient method to compute reachability and cost between sample points in sampling-based motion planning that supports long-range planning over hundreds of kilometres in complicated flows. The idea is to search a reduced space of control inputs that consists of stream functions whose level sets, or streamlines, optimally connect two given points. Such stream functions are generated by superimposing a control input onto the underlying current flow. A streamline represents the resulting path that a vehicle would follow as it is carried along by the current given that control input. We provide rigorous analysis that shows how our method avoids exhaustive search of the control space, and demonstrate simulated examples in complicated flows including a traversal along the east coast of Australia, using actual current predictions, between Sydney and Brisbane.

Title: A Distributed Predictive Control Approach for Cooperative Manipulation of Multiple Underwater Vehicle Manipulator Systems
Key Words: autonomous underwater vehicles  collision avoidance  distributed control  feedback  manipulator dynamics  manipulators  mobile robots  motion control  multi-robot systems  nonlinear control systems  position control  predictive control  control input saturations  coupled dynamics  load sharing coefficients  distributed NMPC  object transportation  constrained workspace  static obstacles  kinematic representation singularities  joint limits  multiple underwater vehicle manipulator systems  nonlinear model predictive control approach  distributed predictive control approach  UVMS locally measurements  Task analysis  Kinematics  Robot sensing systems  Jacobian matrices  End effectors  Vehicle dynamics 
Abstract: This paper addresses the problem of cooperative object transportation for multiple Underwater Vehicle Manipulator Systems (UVMSs) in a constrained workspace involving static obstacles. We propose a Nonlinear Model Predictive Control (NMPC) approach for a team of UVMSs in order to transport an object while avoiding significant constraints and limitations such as: kinematic and representation singularities, obstacles within the workspace, joint limits and control input saturations. More precisely, by exploiting the coupled dynamics between the robots and the object, and using certain load sharing coefficients, we design a distributed NMPC for each UVMS in order to cooperatively transport the object within the workspace's feasible region. Moreover, the control scheme adopts load sharing among the UVMSs according to their specific payload capabilities. Additionally, the feedback relies on each UVMS's locally measurements and no explicit data is exchanged online among the robots, thus reducing the required communication bandwidth. Finally, real-time simulation results conducted in UwSim dynamic simulator running in ROS environment verify the efficiency of the theoretical finding.

Title: Coordinated Control of a Reconfigurable Multi-Vessel Platform: Robust Control Approach
Key Words: control system synthesis  feedback  marine engineering  position control  propellers  robust control  coordinated robust control scheme  reconfigurable multivessel platform  feedback control system  control variables  control system design  propeller-driven vessels  trajectory tracking  disturbance attenuation performance  orientation tracking error  maximum tracking error-to-disturbance ratio  Trajectory tracking  Robust control  Feedback control  Attenuation  Uncertainty  Irrigation 
Abstract: We propose a feedback control system for a reconfigurable multi-vessel platform. The platform consists of N propeller-driven vessels each of which is capable of latching to another vessel to form a rigid body of connected vessels. The main technical challenges are that i) depending on configurations of the platform the dynamic model would be different, and ii) the number of control variables in control system design increases as does the total number of vessels in the platform. To address these challenges, we develop a coordinated robust control scheme. Through experiments we assess trajectory tracking and disturbance attenuation performance of the control scheme in various configurations of the platform. Experiment results yield that average position and orientation tracking error are approximately 0.09m and 3°, and the maximum tracking error-to-disturbance ratio is 1.12.

Title: Ambient light based depth control of underwater robotic unit aMussel
Key Words: autonomous underwater vehicles  mobile robots  pressure sensors  underwater robotic unit  1DOF  ambient light sensor  aMussel holding depth  pressure sensor  one degree-of-freedom  weather conditions  acoustic communication  Robot sensing systems  Pressure sensors  Buoyancy  Pistons  Simulation  Force 
Abstract: In this paper, we present a method for depth control of one degree of freedom (1DOF) underwater robotic platform aMussel, based on the measurements from the ambient light sensor. Since ambient light values change during the day and depend on the weather conditions, references for the controller are acquired from other aMussel holding depth using pressure sensor based controller. Control inputs are transmitted using acoustic communication.

Title: A Unified Closed-Loop Motion Planning Approach For An I-AUV In Cluttered Environment With Localization Uncertainty
Key Words: autonomous underwater vehicles  closed loop systems  collision avoidance  cooperative systems  manipulators  mobile robots  motion control  optimisation  position control  remotely operated vehicles  cluttered environment  localization uncertainty  trajectory optimization problem  optimal trajectory  I-AUV trajectories  optimization solvers  quasiquadratic optimization problems  null space saturation controller  cluttered underwater environments  optimal collision-free  intervention autonomous underwater vehicle  linear-quadratic-Gaussian controller  base trajectories  unified closed-loop motion planning approach  Trajectory  Planning  Manipulators  Uncertainty  Optimization  Aerospace electronics  Task analysis  Intervention AUV  Motion planning  Uncertainty minimization 
Abstract: This paper presents a unified motion planning approach for an Intervention Autonomous Underwater Vehicle (I-AUV) in a cluttered environment with localization uncertainty. With the uncertainty being propagated by an information filter, a trajectory optimization problem closed by a Linear-Quadratic-Gaussian controller is formulated for a coupled design of optimal trajectory, localization, and control. Due to the presence of obstacles or complexity of the cluttered environment, a set of feasible initial I-AUV trajectories covering multiple homotopy classes are required by optimization solvers. Parameterized through polynomials, the initial base trajectories are from solving quasi-quadratic optimization problems that are linearly constrained by waypoints from RRTconnect, while the initial trajectories of the manipulator are generated by a null space saturation controller. Simulations on an I-AUV with a 3 DOF manipulator in cluttered underwater environments demonstrated that initial trajectories are generated efficiently and that optimal and collision-free I-AUV trajectories with low state uncertainty are obtained.

Title: A bio-robotic remora disc with attachment and detachment capabilities for reversible underwater hitchhiking
Key Words: actuators  biomimetics  cables (mechanical)  elastic constants  mobile robots  motion control  polymers  underwater vehicles  bio-robotic remora disc  detachment capabilities  reversible underwater hitchhiking  remoras  adhesive discs  biological disc  multimaterial biomimetic disc  flexible cable-driven mechanism  silicone soft lip  internal pressure  disc lamellae  attached carbon fiber spinules  ambient underwater pressure  Lips  Hydraulic systems  Force  Substrates  Prototypes  Rough surfaces  Surface roughness  Attachment and detachment  soft robotics  underwater adhesion 
Abstract: Remoras employ their adhesive discs to rapidly attach to and detach from a wide range of marine surfaces. By analyzing high-speed images of remoras' (Echeneis naucrates) hitchhiking behavior, we describe the fish's detachment mechanism as a lip curling up to break the seal between the disc and substrate. By mimicking the kinematic and morphological properties of the biological disc, we fabricated a multi-material biomimetic disc (whose stiffness spans four orders of magnitude) that is capable of both attachment and detachment. Detachment is realized by a flexible cable-driven mechanism that curls the anterior region of the silicone soft lip, allows leakage under the disc, and equalizes the internal pressure to the external pressure. The disc lamellae with attached carbon fiber spinules can be rotated by hydraulic soft actuators whose internal pressure is precisely tuned to the ambient underwater pressure. During attachment, increasing the rotational angle of the lamellae and the preload of the disc significantly enhanced the adhesive forces. We found that curling up the soft lip and folding down the lamellae rapidly reduced the pulling force of the disc by a factor of 254 compared to that under the attached state, which lead to detachment. Based on these mechanisms, underwater maneuvers involving repeated attachment and detachment were demonstrated with an integrated ROV unit that had a self-contained actuation and control system for the disc. This study lays a foundation for the development of fully untethered robotic systems for underwater hitchhiking in real-world marine environments.

Title: Robot Communication Via Motion: Closing the Underwater Human-Robot Interaction Loop
Key Words: control engineering computing  human-robot interaction  mobile robots  robot communication  underwater human-robot interaction loop  colored lights  underwater robots  robot-to-human communication methods  body language gestures  communication vector  Robots  Solids  Task analysis  Unmanned underwater vehicles  Communication systems  Human-robot interaction  Hardware 
Abstract: In this paper, we propose a novel method for underwater robot-to-human communication using the motion of the robot as “body language”. To evaluate this system, we develop simulated examples of the system's body language gestures, called kinemes, and compare them to a baseline system using flashing colored lights through a user study. Our work shows evidence that motion can be used as a successful communication vector which is accurate, easy to learn, and quick enough to be used, all without requiring any additional hardware to be added to our platform. We thus contribute to “closing the loop” for human-robot interaction underwater by proposing and testing this system, suggesting a library of possible body language gestures for underwater robots, and offering insight on the design of nonverbal robot-to-human communication methods.

Title: Three-Dimensionally Maneuverable Robotic Fish Enabled by Servo Motor and Water Electrolyser
Key Words: biomechanics  compressed air systems  design engineering  mobile robots  motion control  open loop systems  pistons  servomotors  tanks (containers)  underwater vehicles  servo motor  three-dimensionally maneuverable robotic fish  depth control mechanism  compressed air tank  on-board water electrolyzer  two-dimensionally planar motion  open-loop control experiments  underwater robot  pistons  asymmetric flapping motion  caudal fin  design engineering  forward velocity  turning rate  velocity 0.13 m/s  time 10.0 s  time 5.5 s  size 0.55 m  Robots  Buoyancy  Three-dimensional displays  Force  Dynamics  Two dimensional displays  Solid modeling 
Abstract: Three-dimensionally (3D) maneuverable robotic fish are highly desirable due to their abilities to explore and survey the underwater environment. Existing depth control mechanism is focused on using compressed air or piston to generate volume change, which makes the system bulky and impractical in a small size underwater robot. In this paper, a small and compact 3D maneuverable robotic fish is developed. Instead of using a compressed air tank, the robot is equipped with an on-board water electrolyzer to generate the gases for depth change. The fabricated robotic fish shows fast diving and rising performance. A servo motor is used to generate asymmetric flapping motion on the caudal fin, which leads to a two-dimensionally (2D) planar motion. A 3D dynamic model is then derived for the fabricated robotic fish. Several open-loop control experiments have been conducted to validate the model as well as the design. It has been demonstrated in the experimental results that the robot is capable of generating 3D motion. The robot can achieve 0.13 m/s forward velocity, 30.6 degree/s turning rate, and it takes about 5.5 s to dive to 0.55 m and 10 s to rise.

Title: A Multimodal Aerial Underwater Vehicle with Extended Endurance and Capabilities
Key Words: aerospace components  aircraft control  autonomous aerial vehicles  autonomous underwater vehicles  design engineering  motion control  pneumatic systems  three-term control  vehicle dynamics  multimodal hybrid aerial underwater vehicle  MHAUV  design concept  fixed-wing unmanned aerial vehicle  extended endurance  Newton-Euler formalism  multidomain simulation  underwater glide test  design principles  proportional-integral-derivative  multirotor  lightweight pneumatic buoyancy adjustment system  vehicle's physical parameters  gliding equilibrium points  vehicle's motion control  Buoyancy  Bladder  Underwater vehicles  Prototypes  Rotors  Unmanned aerial vehicles  Mathematical model 
Abstract: A new solution to improving the poor endurance of the existing hybrid aerial underwater vehicle (HAUV) is proposed in this paper. The proposed multimodal hybrid aerial underwater vehicle (MHAUV) merges the design concept of the fixed-wing unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV), the multirotor, and the underwater glider (UG) and has a novel lightweight pneumatic buoyancy adjustment system. MHAUV is well suited for moving in distinct medium and can achieve extended endurance for long distance travel in both air and water. The mathematical model is given based on Newton-Euler formalism. Necessary design principles of the vehicle's physical parameters are obtained through different gliding equilibrium points. Then, a control scheme composed of two separate proportional-integral-derivative (PID) is employed for the vehicle's motion control in multi-domain simulation. The simulation results are presented to verify the multi-domain mobility and the mode switch ability of the proposed vehicle intuitively. Finally, a prototype, NEZHA, is introduced to be the experimental platform. The success of the flight test, the hovering test, the underwater glide test, and the medium transition test all contribute to prove the feasibility of the proposed concept of the novel MHAUV.

Title: Design and Experiments of a Squid-Like Aquatic-Aerial Vehicle with Soft Morphing Fins and Arms
Key Words: actuators  aircraft control  biomimetics  drag  hinges  legged locomotion  microrobots  mobile robots  motion control  numerical analysis  pneumatic control equipment  pneumatic systems  robot kinematics  soft morphable structures  soft morphing fins  aquatic-aerial multimodal vehicle  concept aircraft  natural organisms  multilocomotion  rigid link mechanisms  hinges  pneumatically-driven soft fins  flying squid  lift force  drag force  wind  water tunnel  squid-like aquatic-aerial vehicle  Prototypes  Force  Cavity resonators  Propulsion  Valves  Wind tunnels  Drag 
Abstract: Aquatic-aerial multimodal vehicle is a new concept aircraft that can freely shuttle between water and air. Some of the natural organisms provide the inspiration to realize this multi-locomotion. Most of current prototypes use rigid link mechanisms or hinges to morph the structure thus to adapt to the aquatic-aerial environment, which is commonly complicated and bulky. In this paper, we present a novel prototype with pneumatically-driven soft fins and arms that can fold and spread just like the flying squid. The fins and arms can augment the lift force during flying by spreading and reduce drag force during swimming by folding. The performance of the morphable structures was investigated in wind and water tunnel. The results explain the tradeoff strategies of multimodal-locomotion between water and air, and verify the feasibility of the novel aquatic-aerial vehicle with soft morphable structures.

Title: Nonlinear Orientation Controller for a Compliant Robotic Fish Based on Asymmetric Actuation
Key Words: actuators  mobile robots  motion control  nonlinear control systems  robot dynamics  underwater vehicles  nonlinear orientation controller  compliant robotic fish  asymmetric actuation  compliant fish-like robot  rigid tails  flexible tail  underactuated robotic fish  asymmetric velocity profiles  skewed triangle waves  nonlinear control law  simple actuation mechanism  underwater observation  sinusoidal tail actuation  turning motion  Robot sensing systems  Turning  Position control  Torque  Oscillators  Kinematics 
Abstract: Compliant fish-like robots are being developed as efficient and dependable underwater observation platforms with low impact on the observed environment. Orientation control is an essential building block to achieve autonomy for those vehicles. So far, the major focus has been on rigid tails or on flexible tails with a high degree of actuation. We present a novel control strategy for an underactuated robotic fish with a flexible tail optimized for cruising. The basis for our approach is the generation of asymmetric velocity profiles of the robot's tail beats. To achieve such velocity profiles, the usual sinusoidal tail actuation is replaced with skewed triangle waves. We provide a simple formulation for such waves, where their skew is dependent on only one variable which we define as skew factor. Furthermore, a nonlinear control law is derived to achieve the desired turning motions. We implement the controller on a compliant fish-like robot with a simple actuation mechanism. The control scheme is experimentally validated, and its robustness is tested in field trials.

Title: Project AutoVision: Localization and 3D Scene Perception for an Autonomous Vehicle with a Multi-Camera System
Key Words: cameras  geometry  image reconstruction  mobile robots  path planning  remotely operated vehicles  robot vision  stereo image processing  video signal processing  sensor suite  autonomous vehicle  multicamera system  3D scene perception capabilities  self-driving vehicle  autonomous navigation  urban environments  rural environments  exteroceptive sensors  AutoVision project  multiview geometry  Cameras  Sensors  Three-dimensional displays  Calibration  Laser radar  Autonomous vehicles  Lighting 
Abstract: Project AutoVision aims to develop localization and 3D scene perception capabilities for a self-driving vehicle. Such capabilities will enable autonomous navigation in urban and rural environments, in day and night, and with cameras as the only exteroceptive sensors. The sensor suite employs many cameras for both 360-degree coverage and accurate multi-view stereo; the use of low-cost cameras keeps the cost of this sensor suite to a minimum. In addition, the project seeks to extend the operating envelope to include GNSS-less conditions which are typical for environments with tall buildings, foliage, and tunnels. Emphasis is placed on leveraging multi-view geometry and deep learning to enable the vehicle to localize and perceive in 3D space. This paper presents an overview of the project, and describes the sensor suite and current progress in the areas of calibration, localization, and perception.

Title: Improving the Robustness of Visual-Inertial Extended Kalman Filtering
Key Words: drag  image filtering  inertial navigation  Kalman filters  Monte Carlo methods  nonlinear filters  observability  state estimation  observability  consistency problems  three-fold improvement  linear drag term  velocity dynamics  estimation accuracy  partial-update formulation  linearization errors  partially-observable states  sensor biases  normally unobservable position  heading states  visual-inertial state estimation problem  Monte Carlo simulation experiment  visual-inertial Kalman filters  visual-inertial extended Kalman filtering  visual-inertial navigation methods  global measurements  Cameras  Quaternions  Estimation  Kalman filters  Mathematical model  Robustness  Navigation 
Abstract: Visual-inertial navigation methods have been shown to be an effective, low-cost way to operate autonomously without GPS or other global measurements, however most filtering approaches to VI suffer from observability and consistency problems. To increase robustness of the state-of-the-art methods, we propose a three-fold improvement. First, we propose the addition of a linear drag term in the velocity dynamics which improves estimation accuracy. Second, we propose the use of a partial-update formulation which limits the effect of linearization errors in partially-observable states, such as sensor biases. Finally, we propose the use of a keyframe reset step to enforce observability and consistency of the normally unobservable position and heading states. While all of these concepts have been used independently in the past, our experiments demonstrate additional strength when they are used simultaneously in a visual-inertial state estimation problem. In this paper, we derive the proposed filter and use a Monte Carlo simulation experiment to analyze the response of visual-inertial Kalman filters with the above described additions. The results of this study show that the combination of all of these features significantly improves estimation accuracy and consistency.

Title: Towards Fully Dense Direct Filter-Based Monocular Visual-Inertial Odometry
Key Words: covariance matrices  distance measurement  gradient methods  image filtering  image texture  matrix inversion  mobile robots  robot vision  smoothing methods  low-textured areas  smooth gradients  complexity reduction methods  direct filter-based monocular visual-inertial odometry  direct filter-based visual-inertial odometry method  Cameras  Integrated circuits  Uncertainty  Complexity theory  Estimation  Covariance matrices  Jacobian matrices 
Abstract: We propose a fully dense direct filter-based visual-inertial odometry method estimating both pixel depth for all pixels and robot state simultaneously, having all uncertainties in the same state vector. Due to the fully dense method, our approach works even in low-textured areas with very low, smooth gradients (i.e. scenes where feature based or semi-dense approaches fail). Our algorithm performs in real-time on a CPU with a time complexity linearly dependent on the amount of pixels in the provided image. To achieve this, we propose complexity reduction methods for fast matrix inversion, exploiting specific structures of the covariance matrix. We provide both simulated and real-world results in low-textured areas with a smooth gradient.

Title: Enhancing V-SLAM Keyframe Selection with an Efficient ConvNet for Semantic Analysis
Key Words: convolutional neural nets  microprocessor chips  mobile robots  neural net architecture  object detection  robot vision  SLAM (robots)  video signal processing  image quality  semantic information  robotic systems  V-SLAM keyframe selection  semantic analysis  semantic image analysis  visual information  ConvNet  video  Visual-SLAM  CNN architecture  onboard CPU  Robots  Semantics  Task analysis  Computer architecture  Visualization  Image segmentation  Standards 
Abstract: Selecting relevant visual information from a video is a challenging task on its own and even more in robotics, due to strong computational restrictions. This work proposes a novel keyframe selection strategy based on image quality and semantic information, which boosts strategies currently used in Visual-SLAM (V-SLAM). Commonly used V-SLAM methods select keyframes based only on relative displacements and amount of tracked feature points. Our strategy to select more carefully these keyframes allows the robotic systems to make better use of them. With minimal computational cost, we show that our selection includes more relevant keyframes, which are useful for additional posterior recognition tasks, without penalizing the existing ones, mainly place recognition. A key ingredient is our novel CNN architecture to run a quick semantic image analysis at the onboard CPU of the robot. It provides sufficient accuracy significantly faster than related works. We demonstrate our hypothesis with several public datasets with challenging robotic data.

Title: Unsupervised Learning of Monocular Depth and Ego-Motion Using Multiple Masks
Key Words: cameras  image matching  image sequences  motion estimation  object detection  unsupervised learning  video signal processing  monocular depth  multiple masks  unsupervised learning method  depth estimation network  ego-motion estimation network  projection target imaging plane  fine masks  image pixel mismatch  repeated masking  KITTI dataset  low-quality uncalibrated bike video dataset  Image reconstruction  Estimation  Cameras  Unsupervised learning  Training  Simultaneous localization and mapping 
Abstract: A new unsupervised learning method of depth and ego-motion using multiple masks from monocular video is proposed in this paper. The depth estimation network and the ego-motion estimation network are trained according to the constraints of depth and ego-motion without truth values. The main contribution of our method is to carefully consider the occlusion of the pixels generated when the adjacent frames are projected to each other, and the blank problem generated in the projection target imaging plane. Two fine masks are designed to solve most of the image pixel mismatch caused by the movement of the camera. In addition, some relatively rare circumstances are considered, and repeated masking is proposed. To some extent, the method is to use a geometric relationship to filter the mismatched pixels for training, making unsupervised learning more efficient and accurate. The experiments on KITTI dataset show our method achieves good performance in terms of depth and ego-motion. The generalization capability of our method is demonstrated by training on the low-quality uncalibrated bike video dataset and evaluating on KITTI dataset, and the results are still good.

Title: Characterizing the Effects of Reduced Gravity on Rover Wheel-Soil Interactions using Computer Vision Techniques
Key Words: computer vision  Mars  mobile robots  planetary rovers  planetary surfaces  soil  wheels  lower gravity  soil resistance  weaker soil bonding  rover mobility  reduced-mass rover  full-mass rover  rover wheel-soil interactions  computer vision techniques  planetary rovers  Martian soil simulant  rover-soil visualization technique  reduced gravity wheel-terrain interaction  ExoMars wheel prototype  simulated Martian gravity  wheel normal load  ExoMars space mission  Wheels  Soil  Gravity  Moon  Aircraft  Space vehicles  Earth 
Abstract: Mitigating potential hazards for planetary rovers posed by soft soils requires testing in representative environments such as with Martian soil simulants in reduced gravity. This work describes the experimentation, methods, and results of a rover-soil visualization technique that produced rich datasets of reduced gravity wheel-terrain interaction. The activities are linked to the upcoming ExoMars space mission, through the use of ExoMars wheel prototype and Martian soil simulant in simulated Martian gravity produced in parabolic flights. The results indicate that, with wheel normal load held equal between experiments, the amount of soil mobilized by wheel-soil interaction increases as gravity decreases. Moreover, the amount of soil mobilized is more sensitive to slip in lower gravity. The results of the visualization analysis suggest a deterioration in the soil resistance and weaker soil bonding at lower gravities, which undermines the rover mobility by reducing the net traction. The results have important implications regarding the practice of using a reduced-mass rover on Earth to assess the performance of a full-mass rover in similar soil on an extraterrestrial surface.

Title: Adaptive H∞ Controller for Precise Manoeuvring of a Space Robot
Key Words: adaptive control  aerospace robotics  assembling  control system synthesis  H∞ control  manipulators  mirrors  motion control  nonlinear control systems  position control  robust control  space vehicles  space robot  precise manoeuvring  controlled-floating mode  in-orbit telescope assembly  robotic arm  slow manoeuvres  precise manoeuvres  orbital assembly missions  robustness  optical mirrors  nonlinear H∞ controller  adaptive H∞ controller  Space vehicles  Aerospace electronics  Robot kinematics  Manipulators  Uncertainty  Orbits 
Abstract: A space robot working in a controlled-floating mode can be used for performing in-orbit telescope assembly through simultaneously controlling the motion of the spacecraft base and its robotic arm. Handling and assembling optical mirrors requires the space robot to achieve slow and precise manoeuvres regardless of the disturbances and errors in the trajectory. The robustness offered by the nonlinear H∞ controller, in the presence of environmental disturbances and parametric uncertainties, makes it a viable solution. However, using fixed tuning parameters for this controller does not always result in the desired performance as the arm's trajectory is not known a priori for orbital assembly missions. In this paper, a complete study on the impact of the different tuning parameters is performed and a new adaptive H∞ controller is developed based on bounded functions. The simulation results presented show that the proposed adaptive H∞ controller guarantees robustness and precise tracking using a minimal amount of forces and torques for assembly operations using a small space robot.

Title: Belief Space Planning for Reducing Terrain Relative Localization Uncertainty in Noisy Elevation Maps
Key Words: astronomical image processing  digital elevation models  Global Positioning System  mobile robots  path planning  planetary rovers  robot vision  solid modelling  terrain mapping  belief space planning  noisy map data  elevation data  lunar orbital imagery  terrain relative localization uncertainty  noisy elevation  accurate global localization  operational risk  initial exploration missions  global position  terrain relative navigation  TRN  planetary rover-perspective images  digital elevation models  absolute positioning  orbital data  terrain features  GPS  satellite orbital imagery  Uncertainty  Planning  Noise measurement  Space vehicles  Navigation  Planetary orbits 
Abstract: Accurate global localization is essential for planetary rovers to reach mission goals and mitigate operational risk. For initial exploration missions, it is inappropriate to deploy GPS or build other infrastructure for navigating. One way of determining global position is to use terrain relative navigation (TRN). TRN compares planetary rover-perspective images and 3D models to existing satellite orbital imagery and digital elevation models (DEMs) for absolute positioning. However, TRN is limited by the quality of orbital data and the presence and uniqueness of terrain features. This work presents a novel combination of belief space planning with terrain relative navigation. Additionally, we introduce a new method for increasing the robustness of belief space planning to noisy map data. The new algorithm provides a statistically significant reduction in localization uncertainty when tested on elevation data produced from lunar orbital imagery.

Title: Soil Displacement Terramechanics for Wheel-Based Trenching with a Planetary Rover
Key Words: aerospace robotics  mobile robots  planetary rovers  soil  wheels  trenching  autonomous trenching  front wheel  rear wheel  deep trench  single wheel experiments  driving strategy  closed-form model  digging operations  wheel actuators  planetary exploration rovers  wheel-based trenching  soil displacement terramechanics  Wheels  Soil  Geometry  Deformable models  Mathematical model  Predictive models  Finite element analysis 
Abstract: Planetary exploration rovers are expensive, weight constrained, and cannot be serviced once deployed. Here, we explore one way to increase their capabilities while avoiding the cost, mass, and complexity leading to these issues. We propose to re-use the large wheel actuators for trenching and other digging operations, which will enable a range of missions such as sampling deeper layers of soil. We present a new, closed-form model of the soil displaced by an angled, spinning wheel to analyze the trenching potential of a driving strategy and inform the control of the wheel. The model is demonstrated with single wheel experiments under different driving conditions. The model suggests: that a deep trench does not require large tractive efforts; that the shape of the trench can be controlled; and that a rear wheel has a lower risk of entrapment when trenching than a front wheel. Ultimately this model could be used in a nonprehensile manipulation planning or learning algorithm to enable autonomous trenching.

Title: Experimental Evaluation of Teleoperation Interfaces for Cutting of Satellite Insulation
Key Words: aerospace robotics  artificial satellites  cameras  control engineering computing  data visualisation  medical robotics  robot vision  telerobotics  da Vinci master console  conventional control interface  conventional visualization  operator performance  cutting task  conventional teleoperation interface  da Vinci surgical robot  conventional camera-based visualization  augmented virtuality visualization  trained NASA robot teleoperators  ground-based experiments  available cameras  round-trip telemetry delay  human operator  servicing operation  protective thermal blanketing  satellite insulation  teleoperation interfaces  experimental evaluation  Satellites  Cameras  Visualization  Solid modeling  Robot vision systems  Three-dimensional displays 
Abstract: On-orbit servicing of satellites is complicated by the fact that almost all existing satellites were not designed to be serviced. This creates a number of challenges, one of which is to cut and partially remove the protective thermal blanketing that encases a satellite prior to performing the servicing operation. A human operator on Earth can perform this task telerobotically, but must overcome difficulties presented by the multi-second round-trip telemetry delay between the satellite and the operator and the limited, or even obstructed, views from the available cameras. This paper reports the results of ground-based experiments with trained NASA robot teleoperators to compare our recently-reported augmented virtuality visualization to the conventional camera-based visualization. We also compare the master console of a da Vinci surgical robot to the conventional teleoperation interface. The results show that, for the cutting task, the augmented virtuality visualization can improve operator performance compared to the conventional visualization, but that operators are more proficient with the conventional control interface than with the da Vinci master console.

Title: OmniDRL: Robust Pedestrian Detection using Deep Reinforcement Learning on Omnidirectional Cameras*
Key Words: cameras  computerised instrumentation  image processing  learning (artificial intelligence)  robust pedestrian detection  omnidirectional cameras  computer vision  robotics  deep learning methods  omnidirectional imaging  OmniDRL  deep reinforcement learning  3D bounding boxes  Cameras  Three-dimensional displays  Distortion  Image segmentation  Robot vision systems  Object detection 
Abstract: Pedestrian detection is one of the most explored topics in computer vision and robotics. The use of deep learning methods allowed the development of new and highly competitive algorithms. Deep Reinforcement Learning has proved to be within the state-of-the-art in terms of both detection in perspective cameras and robotics applications. However, for detection in omnidirectional cameras, the literature is still scarce, mostly because of their high levels of distortion. This paper presents a novel and efficient technique for robust pedestrian detection in omnidirectional images. The proposed method uses deep Reinforcement Learning that takes advantage of the distortion in the image. By considering the 3D bounding boxes and their distorted projections into the image, our method is able to provide the pedestrian's position in the world, in contrast to the image positions provided by most state-of-the-art methods for perspective cameras. Our method avoids the need of pre-processing steps to remove the distortion, which is computationally expensive. Beyond the novel solution, our method compares favorably with the state-of-the-art methodologies that do not consider the underlying distortion for the detection task.

Title: 2D3D-Matchnet: Learning To Match Keypoints Across 2D Image And 3D Point Cloud
Key Words: cameras  feature extraction  image classification  image matching  image representation  image retrieval  image sensors  learning (artificial intelligence)  object recognition  pose estimation  solid modelling  visual databases  image-based counterpart  visual pose estimation  2D-3D image  cloud correspondences  end-to-end deep network architecture  query image  3D point cloud reference map  Oxford 2D-3D Patches dataset  Oxford Robotcar dataset  ground truth camera pose  Three-dimensional displays  Two dimensional displays  Pose estimation  Visualization  Cameras  Training  Detectors 
Abstract: Large-scale point cloud generated from 3D sensors is more accurate than its image-based counterpart. However, it is seldom used in visual pose estimation due to the difficulty in obtaining 2D-3D image to point cloud correspondences. In this paper, we propose the 2D3D-MatchNet - an end-to-end deep network architecture to jointly learn the descriptors for 2D and 3D keypoint from image and point cloud, respectively. As a result, we are able to directly match and establish 2D-3D correspondences from the query image and 3D point cloud reference map for visual pose estimation. We create our Oxford 2D-3D Patches dataset from the Oxford Robotcar dataset with the ground truth camera poses and 2D-3D image to point cloud correspondences for training and testing the deep network. Experimental results verify the feasibility of our approach.

Title: Teaching Robots To Draw
Key Words: handwritten character recognition  manipulators  natural language processing  teaching  just-drawn handwritten characters  writing utensil  target stroke  continuous drawing motion  handcrafted rules  predefined paths  stroke-based drawing  teaching robots  manipulator robots  line drawings  Automation  Machine-to-machine communications 
Abstract: In this paper, we introduce an approach which enables manipulator robots to write handwritten characters or line drawings. Given an image of just-drawn handwritten characters, the robot infers a plan to replicate the image with a writing utensil, and then reproduces the image. Our approach draws each target stroke in one continuous drawing motion and does not rely on handcrafted rules or on predefined paths of characters. Instead, it learns to write from a dataset of demonstrations. We evaluate our approach in both simulation and on two real robots. Our model can draw handwritten characters in a variety of languages which are disjoint from the training set, such as Greek, Tamil, or Hindi, and also reproduce any stroke-based drawing from an image of the drawing.

Title: Learning Probabilistic Multi-Modal Actor Models for Vision-Based Robotic Grasping
Key Words: Gaussian processes  learning (artificial intelligence)  manipulators  neural nets  robot vision  statistical distributions  inference time  probabilistic multimodal actor models  vision-based robotic grasping  neural density model  neural network  normalizing flows  complex probability distributions  Gaussian mixture  conditional distribution  4 dimensional action space  Training  Grasping  Robots  Neural networks  Computational modeling  Predictive models  Probability distribution 
Abstract: Many previous works approach vision-based robotic grasping by training a value network that evaluates grasp proposals. These approaches require an optimization process at run-time to infer the best action from the value network. As a result, the inference time grows exponentially as the dimension of action space increases. We propose an alternative method, by directly training a neural density model to approximate the conditional distribution of successful grasp poses from the input images. We construct a neural network that combines Gaussian mixture and normalizing flows, which is able to represent multi-modal, complex probability distributions. We demonstrate on both simulation and real robot that the proposed actor model achieves similar performance compared to the value network using the Cross-Entropy Method (CEM) for inference, on top-down grasping with a 4 dimensional action space. Our actor model reduces the inference time by 3 times compared to the state-of-the-art CEM method. We believe that actor models will play an important role when scaling up these approaches to higher dimensional action spaces.

Title: Self-supervised Learning for Single View Depth and Surface Normal Estimation
Key Words: convolutional neural nets  natural scenes  stereo image processing  supervised learning  single view depth  surface normal estimation  self-supervised learning framework  surface normals  outdoor scenes  fronto-parallel planes  piece-wise smooth depth  surface orientation  natural scenes  piece-wise smooth normals  trained normal network  depth network  realistic smooth normal assumption  self-supervised depth prediction network  convolutional neural networks  depth-normal consistency  Training  Estimation  Geometry  Cameras  Sensors  Visual odometry  Neural networks 
Abstract: In this work we present a self-supervised learning framework to simultaneously train two Convolutional Neural Networks (CNNs) to predict depth and surface normals from a single image. In contrast to most existing frameworks which represent outdoor scenes as fronto-parallel planes at piece-wise smooth depth, we propose to predict depth with surface orientation while assuming that natural scenes have piece-wise smooth normals. We show that a simple depth-normal consistency as a soft-constraint on the predictions is sufficient and effective for training both these networks simultaneously. The trained normal network provides state-of-the-art predictions while the depth network, relying on much realistic smooth normal assumption, outperforms the traditional self-supervised depth prediction network by a large margin on the KITTI benchmark.

Title: Learning to Drive from Simulation without Real World Labels
Key Words: cameras  closed loop systems  control engineering computing  learning (artificial intelligence)  learning systems  mobile robots  road vehicles  robot vision  traffic engineering computing  domain transfer  single-camera control policy  simulation control labels  driving performance  rural roads  urban roads  machine learning systems  simulated environment  vision-based lane  driving policy  rural road  image-to-image translation  autonomous vehicle  open-loop regression metric  Aerospace electronics  Image reconstruction  Task analysis  Semantics  Training  Roads  Measurement 
Abstract: Simulation can be a powerful tool for under-standing machine learning systems and designing methods to solve real-world problems. Training and evaluating methods purely in simulation is often “doomed to succeed” at the desired task in a simulated environment, but the resulting models are incapable of operation in the real world. Here we present and evaluate a method for transferring a vision-based lane following driving policy from simulation to operation on a rural road without any real-world labels. Our approach leverages recent advances in image-to-image translation to achieve domain transfer while jointly learning a single-camera control policy from simulation control labels. We assess the driving performance of this method using both open-loop regression metrics, and closed-loop performance operating an autonomous vehicle on rural and urban roads.

Title: Fabrication and Characterization of Muscle Rings Using Circular Mould and Rotary Electrical Stimulation for Bio-Syncretic Robots
Key Words: actuators  biological tissues  biomechanics  cardiology  cellular biophysics  electromechanical actuators  medical robotics  muscle  physiological models  tissue engineering  circular mould  rotary electrical stimulation  bio-syncretic robots  high-quality muscle rings  living biological systems  electromechanical systems  natural biological entities  3D skeletal muscles  contraction force  electrical pulses stimulation  control property  3D muscle tissues  muscle tissue engineering  Muscles  Electrical stimulation  Electrodes  Service robots  Skeleton 
Abstract: Bio-syncretic robots made up of living biological systems and electromechanical systems may have the potential excellent performance of natural biological entities. Therefore, the study of the bio-syncretic robots has got lots of attention in recent years. The 3D skeletal muscles have been used widely, due to the considerable contraction force and the controllability. However, the low differentiation quality of the C2C12 in the tissues hinders the broad application in the development of the skeleton muscle actuated bio-syncretic robots. In this work, an approach based on circular mould and rotary electrical stimulation to build high-quality muscle rings, which can be used to actuate various bio-syncretic robots, has been proposed. Firstly, the advantage of the proposed circular mould for the muscle rings culture has been shown by simulation. Then, the muscle rings have been fabricated with different moulds using the experiment-optimized compositions of the biological mixture. After that, the muscle rings in the circular moulds with different electrical stimulations have been cultured, to show the superiority of the proposed rotary electrical stimulation. Moreover, the contractility of the muscle rings have been measured under the different electrical pulses stimulation, for the study of the control property of the muscle rings. This work may be meaningful not only the development of bio-syncretic robots actuated by 3D muscle tissues but also the muscle tissue engineering.

Title: Cell Injection Microrobot Development and Evaluation in Microfluidic Chip
Key Words: bioMEMS  cellular biophysics  lab-on-a-chip  medical robotics  microfluidics  microrobots  membrane  cell suction  elastic forces  magnetic forces  ejection forces  microrobot body  mammalian oocyte  cell injection microrobot development  microfluidic chip  micronewton forces  cell nuclei  nozzle  Permanent magnets  Strain  Glass  Robots  Magnetic forces  Microfluidics  Biomembranes 
Abstract: We propose an innovative design of microrobot, which can achieve donor cell suction, delivery and injection in a mammalian oocyte on microfluidic chip. The microrobot body contains a hollow space that produces suction and ejection forces for injection of cell nuclei using a nozzle at the tip of the robot. Specifically, a controller changes the hollow volume by balancing the magnetic and elastic forces of the membrane, and along with motion of stages in the XY plane. A glass capillary attached at the tip of the robot contains the nozzle is able to absorb and inject cell nuclei. The microrobot provides three degrees of freedom and generates micronewton forces. We demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed microrobot through an experiment of absorption and ejection of 20 μm particles from the nozzle using magnetic control in a microfluidic chip.

Title: Orienting Oocytes using Vibrations for In-Vitro Fertilization Procedures
Key Words: biomedical equipment  bioMEMS  cellular biophysics  genetics  medical robotics  micromanipulators  patient diagnosis  vibrations  orienting oocytes  vibrations  assisted reproductive technologies  sperm injection  manual manipulation  error procedure  skilled embryologists  desired orientation  IVF clinics  extensive changes  standard equipment  surface transducer  pipette holder  pipette tip axis  vibration burst  polar body detection algorithm  system cause rotation  micropipettes  in-vitro fertilization procedures  2D motion  Vibrations  Transducers  Automation  Subspace constraints  Glass  Cameras  Resonant frequency 
Abstract: Accurate positioning of cells is a fundamental task for many procedures in assisted reproductive technologies (e.g. intracytoplasmic sperm injection or preimplantation genetic diagnosis) to extract or insert materials into and from the cell without causing damage to it. The current method of manual manipulation is based on a trial and error procedure performed by skilled embryologists, where they use two different micropipettes to rotate the cell and immobilize it in the desired orientation. This procedure is time consuming, inconsistent and has a low efficiency. Attempts to automate the process presented in the literature have not yet been implemented in IVF clinics because their high degree of automation requires extensive changes to the current systems used in the clinics. We designed a system that can easily be integrated into standard equipment of IVF clinics and allows automated as well as manual manipulation of cells. The system uses vibrations induced by a surface transducer at the pipette holder to rotate the cell around the pipette tip axis, resulting in 2D motion. To detect if the polar body is in the desired position after a vibration burst, we developed a polar body detection algorithm. We performed simulations and experiments to confirm that vibrations at the natural frequencies of the system cause rotation around the pipette tip axis. Experimental results show that the system is capable of positioning the polar body in plane in less than 5.41 seconds.

Title: Vision-Based Automated Sorting of C. Elegans on a Microfluidic Device
Key Words: cellular biophysics  microfluidics  size measurement  sorting  valves  multiworm loading  body size measurement  size-based sorting  vision-based algorithms  double-layer microfluidic device  vision-based worm detection  active sorting  passive sorting mechanisms  conventional worm sorting  high-speed sorting  automated speed sorting  vision-based microfluidic system  vision-based automated sorting  sequential loading  computer-controlled pneumatic valves  worm body length measurement  worm body width measurement  vision-based worm size measurement  worm biology  automated on-chip worm manipulation  nematode worm C. elegans  Grippers  Sorting  Loading  Valves  Size measurement  Image processing  Length measurement 
Abstract: This paper reports a vision-based microfluidic system for automated, high-speed sorting of the nematode worm C. elegans. Exceeding the capabilities of conventional worm sorting microfluidic devices purely relying on passive sorting mechanisms, our system is capable of accurate measurement of the worm body length/width and active sorting of worms with the desired sizes from a mixture of worms at different developmental stages. This feature is enabled by the combination of vision-based worm detection and sizing algorithms and automated on-chip worm manipulation. A double-layer microfluidic device with computer-controlled pneumatic valves is developed for sequential loading, trapping, imaging, and sorting of single worms based on vision-based worm size measurement results. To keep the system operation robust, vision-based algorithms for detecting multi-worm loading and worm size measurement failure have also been developed. We conducted sorting experiments on 319 worms and achieve an average sorting speed of 10.4 worms per minute (5.8 s/worm) with an operation success rate of 90.3%. This system will facilitate worm biology studies where body size measurement and size-based sorting of many worms are needed.

Title: Asymmetric Local Metric Learning with PSD Constraint for Person Re-identification
Key Words: approximation theory  image recognition  iterative methods  learning (artificial intelligence)  matrix algebra  video signal processing  visual databases  asymmetric local metric learning  machine learning  positive sample pairs  adaptive local metric learning method  single distance metric  smooth metric matrix function  linear combinations  learning process  positive semidefinite constraint  person reidentification  metric learning  PSD constraint  UCI databases  GRID database  VIPeR database  CUHK01 database  video monitor  approximation error bound  Measurement  Learning systems  Manifolds  Databases  Symmetric matrices  Machine learning  Machine learning algorithms 
Abstract: Person re-identification is one of the key issues in both machine learning and video monitor application. In particular, defining an appropriate distance metric between the person images is very important. Existing metric learning approaches used in person re-identification either learn a single measure, or ignore the positive semi-definite (PSD) of measurement matrix, at the same time, since the number of negative sample pairs largely exceeds the number of positive sample pairs, some metric learning methods are largely influenced by the sample imbalance. Considering the above issues, we propose a new adaptive local metric learning method with positive semi-definite (PSD) constraint. Unlike existing metric learning methods which learn a single distance metric, we use an approximation error bound of a smooth metric matrix function over the data manifold to learn local metrics as linear combinations of basis metrics defined on anchor points over different regions of the instance space. Besides, we develop an efficient two stage algorithm that first learns the anchor points and the linear combinations of each instance, then learns the metric matrices of the anchor points. We employ the fast iterative shrinkage-thresholding algorithm which is a fast first-order optimization algorithm in the learning process of the linear combinations as well as the basis metrics of the anchor points. Our metric learning method has excellent performance. We firstly apply the proposed method on 5 UCI databases, which are widely used in machine learning, to test and evaluate the effectiveness of the proposed method. Then the proposed approach is applied for person re-identification, achieving better performance on three challenging databases (GRID, VIPeR, CUHK01) than the existing methods. The experimental results show that the proposed method can prvide the theoretical and practical support for the person re-identification problem.

Title: Fast and Robust 3D Person Detector and Posture Estimator for Mobile Robotic Applications
Key Words: computer vision  learning (artificial intelligence)  mobile robots  object detection  pose estimation  high posture variance  real-time detection rates  3D object detection domain  mobile application  3D point clouds  robust 3D person detector  posture estimator  mobile robotic applications  computer vision domain  mobile robotics  standing postures  socially aware navigation  deep learning techniques  Kinect2 depth sensor  Three-dimensional displays  Detectors  Feature extraction  Robots  Histograms  Deep learning  Task analysis 
Abstract: Due to recent deep learning techniques, person detection seems to be solved in the computer vision domain, however, it is still an issue in mobile robotics. On a robot only limited computing capacities are available. The challenge gets even more difficult when operating in an environment, with people in poses different from the standard upright ones. In this work the environment of a supermarket is considered. Unlike most scenarios targeted by the community, persons not only occur in standing postures, but also grasping into the shelves or squatting in front of them. Furthermore, people are heavily occluded, e.g. by shopping carts. In such a challenging environment, it is important to perceive people early enough and in real-time in order to enable a socially aware navigation. Classical person detectors often suffer from a high posture variance or do not achieve acceptable real-time detection rates. For this reason, different components from the 3D object detection domain have been used to create a new robust person detector for mobile application. Operating on 3D point clouds allows fast detections in real-time up to our goal distance of ten meters and above using the Kinect2 depth sensor. The detector can even differentiate between typical postures of customers who stand or squat in front of shelves.

Title: Spatiotemporal and Kinetic Gait Analysis System Based on Multisensor Fusion of Laser Range Sensor and Instrumented Insoles
Key Words: biomedical measurement  force sensors  gait analysis  Kalman filters  laser applications in medicine  optical sensors  sensor fusion  data association  Kalman filter  fusion algorithm  in-shoe devices  spatiotemporal gait analysis system  data association methods  tracked leg motions  motion capture cameras  gait disorders  elderly patients  movement function  human legs  laser range sensor  walking  motion models  gait phases  gait events  force sensors  multisensor fusion algorithm  instrumented insoles  kinetic gait analysis system  Legged locomotion  Tracking  Acceleration  Kalman filters  Instruments  Force  Robot sensing systems 
Abstract: Tracking of human legs during walking are key technologies for gait analysis evaluating the movement function of the elderly and patients with gait disorders. Although the motion capture cameras are the gold standard method for gait analysis because of their high accuracy, they are not always accessible in clinical sites because of their cost, scale, and usability. In response, a laser range sensor (LRS), which is used for obstacle avoidance and human detection of mobile robots, has recently been employed for tracking of leg motions. Some previous studies set LRS at shin height and tracked leg motions during walking using three or five observation patterns and the Kalman filtering and data association methods. However, these systems had difficulty in tracking during walking along a circular trajectory including frequent overlaps and occlusions of legs. Therefore, this paper presents a spatiotemporal and kinetic gait analysis system using a single LRS and instrumented insoles and proposes a multisensor fusion algorithm for tracking leg motions. The instrumented insoles are in-shoe devices embedded force sensors and can detect accurate timings of gait events via force sensing. The system identifies gait phases by the fusion algorithm and switches acceleration input added to motion models of tracked legs for the Kalman filter and data association. The tracking performance of the proposed system was evaluated by measuring walking on a circular trajectory in experiments.

Title: Part Segmentation for Highly Accurate Deformable Tracking in Occlusions via Fully Convolutional Neural Networks
Key Words: convolutional neural nets  image filtering  image segmentation  learning (artificial intelligence)  object tracking  pose estimation  robot vision  stereo image processing  visual perception  direct pose estimation  machine learning  direct estimation techniques  geometric tracking methods  robotic applications  observed point clouds  segmentation maps  Fast-FCN network architecture  convolutional neural networks  Three-dimensional displays  Semantics  Computational modeling  Robots  Image segmentation  Computer architecture  Pose estimation 
Abstract: Successfully tracking the human body is an important perceptual challenge for robots that must work around people. Existing methods fall into two broad categories: geometric tracking and direct pose estimation using machine learning. While recent work has shown direct estimation techniques can be quite powerful, geometric tracking methods using point clouds can provide a very high level of 3D accuracy which is necessary for many robotic applications. However these approaches can have difficulty in clutter when large portions of the subject are occluded. To overcome this limitation, we propose a solution based on fully convolutional neural networks (FCN). We develop an optimized Fast-FCN network architecture for our application which allows us to filter observed point clouds and improve tracking accuracy while maintaining interactive frame rates. We also show that this model can be trained with a limited number of examples and almost no manual labelling by using an existing geometric tracker and data augmentation to automatically generate segmentation maps. We demonstrate the accuracy of our full system by comparing it against an existing geometric tracker, and show significant improvement in these challenging scenarios.

Title: Using Variable Natural Environment Brain-Computer Interface Stimuli for Real-time Humanoid Robot Navigation
Key Words: brain-computer interfaces  convolutional neural nets  electroencephalography  humanoid robots  medical robotics  medical signal processing  mobile robots  object detection  robot vision  telerobotics  video streaming  visual evoked potentials  specialised secondary CNN  teleoperation robot commands  SSVEP decoding model  real-time humanoid robot navigation  humanoid robot teleoperation  natural indoor environment  dry-EEG technology  cortical waveforms  on-board robot camera  onscreen object selection  variable steady state visual evoked potential  real-time video streaming  variable natural environment  brain-computer interface stimuli  deep convolutional neural network  dry-electroencephalography based human cortical brain bio-signals decoding  variable BCI stimuli  natural scene objects detection  dry-EEG enabled SSVEP methodology  Navigation  Electroencephalography  Real-time systems  Humanoid robots  Object detection  Headphones 
Abstract: This paper addresses the challenge of humanoid robot teleoperation in a natural indoor environment via a Brain-Computer Interface (BCI). We leverage deep Convolutional Neural Network (CNN) based image and signal understanding to facilitate both real-time object detection and dry-Electroencephalography (EEG) based human cortical brain bio-signals decoding. We employ recent advances in dry-EEG technology to stream and collect the cortical waveforms from subjects while they fixate on variable Steady State Visual Evoked Potential (SSVEP) stimuli generated directly from the environment the robot is navigating. To these ends, we propose the use of novel variable BCI stimuli by utilising the real-time video streamed via the on-board robot camera as visual input for SSVEP, where the CNN detected natural scene objects are altered and flickered with differing frequencies (10Hz, 12Hz and 15Hz). These stimuli are not akin to traditional stimuli - as both the dimensions of the flicker regions and their on-screen position changes depending on the scene objects detected. Onscreen object selection via such a dry-EEG enabled SSVEP methodology, facilitates the on-line decoding of human cortical brain signals, via a specialised secondary CNN, directly into teleoperation robot commands (approach object, move in a specific direction: right, left or back). This SSVEP decoding model is trained via a priori offline experimental data in which very similar visual input is present for all subjects. The resulting classification demonstrates high performance with mean accuracy of 85% for the real-time robot navigation experiment across multiple test subjects.

Title: Estimating the Localizability in Tunnel-like Environments using LiDAR and UWB
Key Words: Global Positioning System  inspection  mobile robots  optical radar  path planning  probability  robot vision  sensor fusion  tunnels  ultra wideband technology  UWB  inspection tasks  autonomous navigation technology  robot localization techniques  GPS-denied environments  onboard sensors  cameras  LiDAR  probabilistic sensor fusion method  tunnel-like environments  degeneration characterization model  ultra-wideband ranging radio  Robot sensing systems  Laser radar  Uncertainty  Probabilistic logic  Distance measurement 
Abstract: The application of robots in inspection tasks has been growing quickly thanks to the advancements in autonomous navigation technology, especially the robot localization techniques in GPS-denied environments. Although many methods have been proposed to localize a robot using onboard sensors such as cameras and LiDARs, achieving robust localization in geometrically degenerated environments, e.g. tunnels, remains a challenging problem. In this work, we focus on the robust localization problem in such situations. A novel degeneration characterization model is presented to estimate the localizability at a given location in the prior map. And the localizability of a LiDAR and an Ultra-Wideband (UWB) ranging radio is analyzed. Additionally, a probabilistic sensor fusion method is developed to combine IMU, LiDAR and the UWB. Experiment results show that this method allows for robust localization inside a long straight tunnel.

Title: Global Localization with Object-Level Semantics and Topology
Key Words: feature extraction  graph theory  image matching  image representation  pose estimation  stereo image processing  object-level representation  semantic object association  semantic-level point alignment  object-level semantics  appearance-based approach  3D dense semantics  semantic graph  vision-based global localization  topology  autonomous navigation  simultaneous localization and mapping  place recognition  6-DoF pose estimation  visual feature matching  Semantics  Three-dimensional displays  Topology  Simultaneous localization and mapping  Visualization  Cameras  Pose estimation 
Abstract: Global localization lies at the heart of autonomous navigation and Simultaneous Localization and Mapping (SLAM). The appearance-based approach has been successful, but still faces many open challenges in environments where visual conditions vary significantly over time. In this paper, we propose an integrated solution to leverage object-level dense semantics and spatial understanding of the environment for global localization. Our approach models an environment with 3D dense semantics, semantic graph and their topology. This object-level representation is then used for place recognition via semantic object association, followed by 6-DoF pose estimation by the semantic-level point alignment. Extensive experiments show that our approach can achieve robust global localization under extreme appearance changes. It is also capable of coping with other challenging scenarios, such as dynamic environments and incomplete query observations.

Title: Look No Deeper: Recognizing Places from Opposing Viewpoints under Varying Scene Appearance using Single-View Depth Estimation
Key Words: cameras  computer vision  feature extraction  image filtering  image matching  image representation  image sensors  image sequences  object detection  keypoint sequence  single query image  depth-filtered keypoint sequences  camera motion  varying scene appearance  single-view depth estimation  familiar visual place  extreme environmental appearance change  field-of-view vision  temporal-aware visual place recognition system  extreme appearance-change visual place recognition problem  sequence-to-single frame matching  depth-filtered keypoints  depth estimation pipeline  Visualization  Estimation  Feature extraction  Cameras  Indexes  Robots  Measurement 
Abstract: Visual place recognition (VPR) - the act of recognizing a familiar visual place - becomes difficult when there is extreme environmental appearance change or viewpoint change. Particularly challenging is the scenario where both phenomena occur simultaneously, such as when returning for the first time along a road at night that was previously traversed during the day in the opposite direction. While such problems can be solved with panoramic sensors, humans solve this problem regularly with limited field-of-view vision and without needing to constantly turn around. In this paper, we present a new depth- and temporal-aware visual place recognition system that solves the opposing viewpoint, extreme appearance-change visual place recognition problem. Our system performs sequence-to-single frame matching by extracting depth-filtered keypoints using a state-of-the-art depth estimation pipeline, constructing a keypoint sequence over multiple frames from the reference dataset, and comparing these keypoints to the keypoints extracted from a single query image. We evaluate the system on a challenging benchmark dataset and show that it consistently outperforms state-of-the-art techniques. We also develop a range of diagnostic simulation experiments that characterize the contribution of depth-filtered keypoint sequences with respect to key domain parameters including the degree of appearance change and camera motion.

Title: Exploiting Trademark Databases for Robotic Object Fetching
Key Words: feature extraction  image sensors  learning (artificial intelligence)  mobile robots  neural nets  object detection  object recognition  robot vision  service robots  shape recognition  trademarks  synthetic data  convolutional neural network logo detector  domain randomization  soft drinks  logo images  large-scale data  household objects  service robots  robotic object  trademark databases  object fetching  Databases  Trademarks  Robots  Detectors  Task analysis  Training  Shape 
Abstract: Service robots require the ability to recognize various household objects in order to carry out certain tasks, such as fetching an object for a person. Manually collecting information on all the objects a robot may encounter in a household is tedious and time-consuming; therefore this paper proposes the use of large-scale data from existing trademark databases. These databases contain logo images and a description of the goods and services the logo was registered under. For example, Pepsi is registered under soft drinks. We extend domain randomization in order to generate synthetic data to train a convolutional neural network logo detector, which outperformed previous logo detectors trained on synthetic data. We also provide a practical implementation for object fetching on a robot, which uses a Kinect and the logo detector to identify the object the human user requested. Tests on this robot indicate promising results, despite not using any real world photos for training.

Title: Object Detection Approach for Robot Grasp Detection
Key Words: convolutional neural nets  grippers  learning (artificial intelligence)  object detection  robot vision  robot platform  object detection approach  robot grasp detection  robot grasping problem  parallel gripper  image data  end-to-end approach  RGB images  transfer learning  adapted network  convolutional neural network based based object detection architecture  Grasping  Robot kinematics  Grippers  Neural networks  Object detection  Task analysis 
Abstract: In this paper, we focus on the robot grasping problem with parallel grippers using image data. For this task, we propose and implement an end-to-end approach. In order to detect the good grasping poses for a parallel gripper from RGB images, we have employed transfer learning for a Convolutional Neural Network (CNN) based object detection architecture. Our obtained results show that, the adapted network either outperforms or is on-par with the state-of-the art methods on a benchmark dataset. We also performed grasping experiments on a real robot platform to evaluate our method's real world performance.

Title: MetaGrasp: Data Efficient Grasping by Affordance Interpreter Network
Key Words: dexterous manipulators  grippers  image colour analysis  inference mechanisms  learning (artificial intelligence)  robot vision  data efficient grasping  data-driven approach  training data  data collection  grasp training system  model inference  antipodal grasp rule  affordance map  ungraspability  grasp affordances  pixel-level affordance interpreter network  quantitative experiments  real-world grasp experiments  qualitative experiments  Grasping  Training  Data collection  Data models  Grippers  Robots  Deep learning 
Abstract: Data-driven approach for grasping shows significant advance recently. But these approaches usually require much training data. To increase the efficiency of grasping data collection, this paper presents a novel grasp training system including the whole pipeline from data collection to model inference. The system can collect effective grasp sample with a corrective strategy assisted by antipodal grasp rule, and we design an affordance interpreter network to predict pixelwise grasp affordance map. We define graspability, ungraspability and background as grasp affordances. The key advantage of our system is that the pixel-level affordance interpreter network trained with only a small number of grasp samples under antipodal rule can achieve significant performance on totally unseen objects and backgrounds. The training sample is only collected in simulation. Extensive qualitative and quantitative experiments demonstrate the accuracy and robustness of our proposed approach. In the real-world grasp experiments, we achieve a grasp success rate of 93% on a set of household items and 91% on a set of adversarial items with only about 6,300 simulated samples. We also achieve 87% accuracy in clutter scenario. Although the model is trained using only RGB image, when changing the background textures, it also performs well and can achieve even 94% accuracy on the set of adversarial objects, which outperforms current state-of-the-art methods.

Title: Toward Fingertip Non-Contact Material Recognition and Near-Distance Ranging for Robotic Grasping
Key Words: displacement measurement  grippers  image sensors  photoacoustic effect  ultrasonic imaging  ultrasonic transducers  pre-touch approaches  fingertip noncontact material recognition  conventional contact  acoustic bi-modal distance  near-distance ranging  sensor design  nimble grasping  robust grasping  material type  robotic fingers  single-element air-coupled transducers  optoacoustic effects  pulse-echo ultrasound  last-moment perception  robot fingertip  robotic grasping  optical bi-modal distance  Conferences  Automation 
Abstract: We report the feasibility study of a new acoustic and optical bi-modal distance & material sensor for robotic grasping. The new sensor is designed to be mounted on the robot fingertip to provide last-moment perception before contact happens. It is based on both pulse-echo ultrasound and optoacoustic effects enabled by single-element air-coupled transducers. In contrast to conventional contact-based and recent pre-touch approaches, this new method overcomes their disadvantages and provides robotic fingers with the capability to detect the distance and material type of the target at a near distance before contact occurs, which is crucial for robust and nimble grasping. The proposed sensor has been tested with different materials, shapes, and porous properties. The experimental results show that this sensor design is functional and practical.

Title: Video-based Prediction of Hand-grasp Preshaping with Application to Prosthesis Control
Key Words: dexterous manipulators  electromyography  learning (artificial intelligence)  medical control systems  medical signal processing  orthotics  prosthetics  video signal processing  deep learning  automatic prediction  hand prosthesis  video sequences  RGB-D video data  orthotic devices  prosthetic devices  surface electromyography pattern recognition  arbitrary objects  video-based technique  grasp-type selection techniques  prosthesis control  hand-grasp  video-based prediction  Cameras  Prosthetics  Deep learning  Predictive models  Grasping  Object recognition  Pattern recognition 
Abstract: Among the currently available grasp-type selection techniques for hand prostheses, there is a distinct lack of intuitive, robust, low-latency solutions. In this paper we investigate the use of a portable, forearm-mounted, video-based technique for the prediction of hand-grasp preshaping for arbitrary objects. The purpose of this system is to automatically select the grasp-type for the user of the prosthesis, potentially increasing ease-of-use and functionality. This system can be used to supplement and improve existing control strategies, such as surface electromyography (sEMG) pattern recognition, for prosthetic and orthotic devices. We designed and created a suitable dataset consisting of RGB-D video data for 2212 grasp examples split evenly across 7 classes; 6 grasps commonly used in activities of daily living, and an additional no-grasp category. We processed and analyzed the dataset using several state-of-the-art deep learning architectures. Our selected model shows promising results for realistic, intuitive, real-world use, reaching per-frame accuracies on video sequences of up to 95.90% on the validation set. Such a system could be integrated into the palm of a hand prosthesis, allowing an automatic prediction of the grasp-type without requiring any special movements or aiming by the user.

Title: Reactive Walking Based on Upper-Body Manipulability: An application to Intention Detection and Reaction
Key Words: humanoid robots  human-robot interaction  legged locomotion  manipulators  motion control  position control  robot platforms  reactive walking  upper-body manipulability  intention detection  human robot interaction  hand-in-hand interaction scenario  impedance controlled humanoid  velocity transmission  robot arms manipulation quality  appropriate directions  robot manipulation ability  COMAN + humanoid robot  manipulation motion  human operator  reactive steps  humanoid COMAN+ control  walking pattern generators  Legged locomotion  Humanoid robots  Manipulators  Robot sensing systems  Robot kinematics  Jacobian matrices 
Abstract: In this paper, we look at the challenge of human robot interaction in locomotion. We consider a hand-in-hand interaction scenario where a human compliantly interacts with the upper-body of an impedance controlled humanoid. By exploring the velocity transmission of the robot arms, and the interaction in terms of robot arms manipulation quality evaluated through the monitoring of their manipulability the proposed method derives suitable reactive steps in appropriate directions to ensure that the robot manipulation ability is maintained with the robot arms providing high capacity of motion along the different directions. The proposed approach can be combined with different walking pattern generators and is not tailored to a specific one used in this work. The results of the proposed method are experimentally validated on the COMAN + humanoid robot showing the efficacy of the method to generate reactive stepping driven by the interaction and manipulation motion of the human operator. Besides, the work also provides a real-time software architecture to control humanoid COMAN+, but it is also flexible to be used for the control of other robot platforms.

Title: A Self-Modulated Impedance Multimodal Interaction Framework for Human-Robot Collaboration
Key Words: active disturbance rejection control  humanoid robots  human-robot interaction  manipulators  mobile robots  motion control  unexpected interaction forces  online self-tuning stiffness regulation principle  unexpected interaction loads  unnecessary motion commands  human generated motions  verbal interaction channel  human-robot collaboration task  self-modulated impedance multimodal interaction framework  human robot interaction  manipulation manoeuvres  humanoid robot COMAN +  Task analysis  Impedance  Collaboration  Robot sensing systems  Payloads  Service robots 
Abstract: Human Robot interaction is a fundamental perquisite for any robot performing a physical task in collaboration with a human. The presence of disturbances arising from the partially known tasks payloads, the unexpected interaction forces in general, and the uncertainty in the interpretation of the human intention in terms of motions and forces can pose significant challenges and eventually compromise the execution of the collaborative task. This work presents a novel, intrinsically adaptable multimodal (force, motion and verbal) interaction framework for human-robot collaboration (HRC) that leverages on an online self-tuning stiffness regulation principle to provide adaptation to interaction/payload forces and reject disturbances arising by unexpected interaction loads. Besides the presented method, it enables the rejection of unnecessary motion commands (e.g. oscillations generated by the human operator) to reach the robot co-worker through the filtering of the human generated motions, that are outside the range (in terms of speed and acceleration) of the envisioned manipulation manoeuvres. Finally, a verbal interaction channel allows the operator to convey securely his high level intentions and to control the states of the task execution. We evaluated and demonstrated the effectiveness of the proposed multimodal interaction framework in a high weight carrying human-robot collaboration task using the humanoid robot COMAN +.

Title: SMT-Based Control and Feedback for Social Navigation
Key Words: collision avoidance  computability  feedback  human-robot interaction  motion control  SMT-based control  social navigation  HRI  socially acceptable distance  robot motion  high-level formal specifications  human behavior  formal methods  human-robot interaction  collision avoidance  satisfiability modulo theories  utility-based side-by-side navigation control  SMT formula  Navigation  Collision avoidance  Robot kinematics  Legged locomotion  Mathematical model  Safety 
Abstract: This paper combines techniques from Formal Methods and Human-Robot Interaction (HRI) to address the challenge of a robot walking with a human while maintaining a socially acceptable distance and avoiding collisions. We formulate a set of constraints on the robot motion using Satisfiability Modulo Theories (SMT) formulas, and synthesize robot control that is guaranteed to be safe and correct. Due to its use of high-level formal specifications, the controller is able to provide feedback to the user in situations where human behavior causes the robot to fail. This feedback allows the human to adjust their behavior and recover joint navigation. We demonstrate the behavior of the robot in a variety of simulated scenarios and compare it to utility-based side-by-side navigation control.

Title: Safe and Efficient High Dimensional Motion Planning in Space-Time with Time Parameterized Prediction
Key Words: collision avoidance  human-robot interaction  manipulators  mobile robots  probability  trajectory control  human-robot collaborative environments  pre-planned path  6-joint manipulator  human hand  robot trajectories  obstacle-avoidance strategies  motion planning  lazy safe interval probabilistic roadmap  Planning  Robots  Trajectory  Prediction algorithms  Heuristic algorithms  Collision avoidance  Real-time systems 
Abstract: In this work, we propose an algorithm that can plan safe and efficient robot trajectories in real time, given time-parameterized motion predictions, in order to avoid fast-moving obstacles in human-robot collaborative environments. Our algorithm is able to reduce the robot configuration space and the time domain significantly by constructing a Lazy Safe Interval Probabilistic Roadmap based on a pre-planned path. The algorithm then plans efficient obstacle-avoidance strategies within the space-time roadmap. We benchmarked our algorithm by evaluating the performance of a simulated 6-joint manipulator attempting to avoid a quickly moving human hand, using a dataset collected from human experiments. We compared our algorithm's performance with those of 8 variations of prior state-of-the-art planners. Results from this empirical evaluation indicate that our method generated safe plans in 97.5% of the evaluated situations, achieved a planning speed 30 times faster than the benchmarked methods that planned in the time domain without space reduction, and accomplished the minimal solution execution time among the benchmarked planners with a similar planning speed.

Title: Fast Online Segmentation of Activities from Partial Trajectories
Key Words: assembling  hidden Markov models  image segmentation  industrial robots  maximum likelihood estimation  mobile robots  particle filtering (numerical methods)  robot vision  fast online segmentation  partial trajectory  efficient plan  safe plan  online activity segmentation algorithm  hidden Markov model  efficient particle-filtering approach  activity sequence  online search process  task model information  partial order  human activity datasets  industrial mobile robot  automotive assembly task  Trajectory  Hidden Markov models  Robots  Task analysis  Computational modeling  Prediction algorithms  Predictive models 
Abstract: Augmenting a robot with the capacity to understand the activities of the people it collaborates with in order to then label and segment those activities allows the robot to generate an efficient and safe plan for performing its own actions. In this work, we introduce an online activity segmentation algorithm that can detect activity segments by processing a partial trajectory. We model the transitions through activities as a hidden Markov model, which runs online by implementing an efficient particle-filtering approach to infer the maximum a posteriori estimate of the activity sequence. This process is complemented by an online search process to refine activity segments using task model information about the partial order of activities. We evaluated our algorithm by comparing its performance to two state-of-the-art activity segmentation algorithms on three human activity datasets. The proposed algorithm improved activity segmentation accuracy across all three datasets compared with the other two approaches, with a range from 11.3% to 65.5%, and could accurately recognize an activity through observation alone for 31.6% of the initial trajectory of that activity, on average. We also implemented the algorithm onto an industrial mobile robot during an automotive assembly task in which the robot tracked a human worker's progress and provided the worker with the correct materials at the appropriate time.

Title: Laparoscopy instrument tracking for single view camera and skill assessment
Key Words: cameras  medical computing  surgery  visual tracking algorithm  3D reconstructed trajectories  linear discriminant analysis  frequency analysis  simple colored tapes  standard physical training box  extracted tool trajectories  single webcam camera  standard laparoscopy training box  minimally invasive surgical skills  single view camera  laparoscopy instrument tracking  Instruments  Laparoscopes  Training  Estimation  Kalman filters  Trajectory  Cameras 
Abstract: Assessment of minimally invasive surgical skills is a non-trivial task, usually requiring the presence and time of expert observers, including subjectivity and requiring special and expensive equipment and software. This study develops an algorithm for tracking laparoscopy instruments in the video cues of a standard laparoscopy training box with a single webcam camera and proposes new criteria to assess skill level using the extracted tool trajectories. Instrument tracking and assessment criteria together constitute a significant step towards developing a low cost, automated, and widely applicable laparoscopy training and assessment system using a standard physical training box equipped with a webcam. The developed visual tracking algorithm recovers the 3D positions of the laparoscopic instruments tips to which simple colored tapes (markers) are attached. The new assessment criteria are based on frequency analysis and linear discriminant analysis of the 3D reconstructed trajectories of the instruments. The performance of these proposed criteria are compared to the conventional criteria for laparoscopy training and demonstrated to be superior on the data we have recorded from six professional laparoscopy surgeons and ten novice subjects.

Title: OffsetNet: Deep Learning for Localization in the Lung using Rendered Images
Key Words: cameras  closed loop systems  image reconstruction  image registration  medical computing  medical image processing  phantoms  rendering (computer graphics)  surgery  bronchoscope  update rate  average position error  conserved regions  training dataset  simulated images  simulated domains  conservative thresholds  rendered images  surgical tools  dynamic anatomy  tortuous anatomy  real-time localization  preoperative scan  human operators  closed-loop control  autonomous agents  deep learning architecture  recorded camera images  lung phantom  OffsetNet  time 30.0 min  frequency 47.0 Hz  Lung  Computed tomography  Training  Robot sensing systems  Real-time systems  Cameras  Imaging phantoms 
Abstract: Navigating surgical tools in the dynamic and tortuous anatomy of the lung's airways requires accurate, real-time localization of the tools with respect to the preoperative scan of the anatomy. Such localization can inform human operators or enable closed-loop control by autonomous agents, which would require accuracy not yet reported in the literature. In this paper, we introduce a deep learning architecture, called OffsetNet, to accurately localize a bronchoscope in the lung in real-time. After training on only 30 minutes of recorded camera images in conserved regions of a lung phantom, OffsetNet tracks the bronchoscope's motion on a held-out recording through these same regions at an update rate of 47 Hz and an average position error of 1.4 mm. Because this model performs poorly in less conserved regions, we augment the training dataset with simulated images from these regions. To bridge the gap between camera and simulated domains, we implement domain randomization and a generative adversarial network (GAN). After training on simulated images, OffsetNet tracks the bronchoscope's motion in less conserved regions at an average position error of 2.4 mm, which meets conservative thresholds required for successful tracking.

Title: Using Augmentation to Improve the Robustness to Rotation of Deep Learning Segmentation in Robotic-Assisted Surgical Data
Key Words: data handling  learning (artificial intelligence)  medical computing  medical robotics  recurrent neural nets  robot kinematics  surgery  telerobotics  JIGSAWS dataset  data augmentation  kinematic data  surgical data science  deep learning segmentation  robotic-assisted surgical data  Robotic-Assisted Minimally Invasive Surgery  automated segmentation  data-intensive segmentation algorithms  da Vinci Research Kit  recurrent neural network  Surgery  Task analysis  Training  Robots  Kinematics  Deep learning  Robustness  Surgical Robotics: Laparoscopy  Deep Learning in Robotics and Automation  Rotation augmentation  Network generalization 
Abstract: Robotic-Assisted Minimally Invasive Surgery allows for easy recording of kinematic data, and presents excellent opportunities for data-intensive approaches to assessment of surgical skill, system design, and automation of procedures. However, typical surgical cases result in long data streams, and therefore, automated segmentation into gestures is important. The public release of the JIGSAWS dataset allowed for developing and benchmarking data-intensive segmentation algorithms. However, this dataset is small and the gestures are similar in their structure and directions. This may limit the generalization of the algorithms to real surgical data that are characterized by movements in arbitrary directions. In this paper, we use a recurrent neural network to segment a suturing task, and demonstrate one such generalization problem-limited generalization to rotation. We propose a simple augmentation that can solve this problem without collecting new data, and demonstrate its benefit using: (1) the JIGSAWS dataset, and (2) a new dataset that we recorded with a da Vinci Research Kit. Our study highlights the prospect of using data augmentation in the analysis of kinematic data in surgical data science.

Title: Deep Learning based Motion Prediction for Exoskeleton Robot Control in Upper Limb Rehabilitation
Key Words: biomechanics  electromyography  learning (artificial intelligence)  medical robotics  medical signal processing  mobile robots  motion control  patient rehabilitation  trajectory control  wearable robots  deep learning based motion prediction model  human arm dynamics  surface electromyography  deep learning model  robot arm  exoskeleton robot control  robot-assisted training  motion trajectory  8 degrees-of-freedom upper limb rehabilitation exoskeleton  NTUH-II  user motion prediction  RAT  wireless sensors  sEMG  8DoFs  Manipulators  Exoskeletons  Sensors  Deep learning  Muscles  Training 
Abstract: The synchronization of the movement between exoskeleton robot and human arm is crucial for Robot-assisted training (RAT) in upper limb rehabilitation. In this paper, we propose a deep learning based motion prediction model which is applied to our recently developed 8 degrees-of-freedom (DoFs) upper limb rehabilitation exoskeleton, named NTUH-II. The human arm dynamics and surface electromyography (sEMG) can be first measured by two wireless sensors and used as input of deep learning model to predict user's motion. Then, the prediction can be used as desired motion trajectory of the exoskeleton. As a result, the robot arm can follow the movement on either side of the user's arm in real-time. Various experiments have been conducted to verify the performance of the proposed motion prediction model, and the results show that the proposed motion prediction implementation can reduce the mean absolute error and the average delay time of movement between human arm and robot arm.

Title: Adaptive Gait Planning for Walking Assistance Lower Limb Exoskeletons in Slope Scenarios
Key Words: adaptive control  gait analysis  humanoid robots  legged locomotion  medical robotics  motion control  pendulums  robot dynamics  adaptive gait planning approach  lower-limb walking assistance exoskeletons  human-exoskeleton system  reference foot locations  adaptive gait trajectories  level ground walking  paraplegic patients  slope terrains  stepping locations  dynamic movement primitives  2D linear inverted pendulum model  dynamic gait generator  conventional capture point theory  Legged locomotion  Exoskeletons  Foot  Trajectory  Adaptation models  Force  Planning  Adaptive Gait Planning  Lower-limb Exoskeleton  LIPM  Dynamic Movement Primitives  Slope 
Abstract: Lower-limb exoskeleton has gained considerable interests in walking assistance applications for paraplegic patients. In walking assistance of paraplegic patients, the exoskeleton should have the ability to help patients to walk over different terrains in the daily life, such as slope terrains. One critical issue is how to plan the stepping locations on slopes with different gradients, and generate stable and human-like gaits for patients. This paper proposed an adaptive gait planning approach which can generate gait trajectories adapt to slopes with different gradients for lower-limb walking assistance exoskeletons. We modeled the human-exoskeleton system as a 2D Linear Inverted Pendulum Model (2D-LIPM) with an external force in the two-dimensional sagittal plane, and proposed a Dynamic Gait Generator (DGG) based on an extension of the conventional Capture Point (CP) theory and Dynamic Movement Primitives (DMPs). The proposed approach can dynamically generate reference foot locations for each step on slopes, and human-like adaptive gait trajectories can be reproduced after the learning from demonstrated trajectories that sampled from level ground walking of normal healthy human. We demonstrated the efficiency of the proposed approach on both the Gazebo simulation platform and an exoskeleton named AIDER. Experimental results indicate that the proposed approach is able to provide the ability for exoskeletons to generate appropriate gaits adapt to slopes with different gradients.

Title: A Data-Driven Predictive Model of Individual-Specific Effects of FES on Human Gait Dynamics
Key Words: bioelectric phenomena  gait analysis  kinematics  medical robotics  muscle  patient rehabilitation  gait coordination patterns  robotic control strategies  functional electrical stimulation  gait cycle  Switched Linear Dynamical Systems  joint angles  kinematic model  SLDS predictions  SLDS dynamics matrices  gait phase information  joint angle trajectories  SLDS models  normal gait  joint angle kinematic data  data-driven gait models  electrical perturbations  mechanical perturbations  gait kinematics  gait rehabilitation robotics  human gait dynamics  individual-specific effects  data-driven predictive model  Superluminescent diodes  Legged locomotion  Kinematics  Trajectory  Predictive models  Iron  Data models 
Abstract: Modeling individual-specific gait dynamics based on kinematic data could aid development of gait rehabilitation robotics by enabling robots to predict the user's gait kinematics with and without external inputs, such as mechanical or electrical perturbations. Here we address a current limitation of data-driven gait models, which do not yet predict human gait dynamics nor responses to perturbations. We used Switched Linear Dynamical Systems (SLDS) to model joint angle kinematic data from healthy individuals walking on a treadmill during normal gait and during gait perturbed by functional electrical stimulation (FES) to the ankle muscles. Our SLDS models were able to generate joint angle trajectories in each of four gait phases, as well as across an entire gait cycle, given initial conditions and gait phase information. Because the SLDS dynamics matrices encoded significant coupling across joints that differed across indivdiuals, we compared the SLDS predictions to that of a kinematic model, where the joint angles were independent. Joint angle trajectories generated by SLDS and kinematic models were similar over time horizons of a few milliseconds, but SLDS models provided better predictions of gait kinematics over time horizons of up to a second. We also demonstrated that SLDS models can infer and predict individual-specific responses to FES during swing phase. As such, SLDS models may be a promising approach for online estimation and control of and human gait dynamics, allowing robotic control strategies to be tailored to an individual's specific gait coordination patterns.

Title: The (Sensorized) Hand is Quicker than the Eye: Restoring Grasping Speed and Confidence for Amputees with Tactile Reflexes
Key Words: electromyography  medical control systems  prosthetics  tactile sensors  touch (physiological)  myoelectric prosthetic hand  closing signals  open-cell self-skinning polyurethane foam  tactile reflexes  user confidence  sound side limb  rigid items  fragile items  unilateral myoelectric prosthesis users  inhibitory reflex controller  contact signal  air pressure  excessive forces  simple tactile reflex  tactile sensors  human hand dexterity  fragile objects  myoelectric prosthetic hand users  grasping speed  Electromyography  Grasping  Prosthetic hand  Task analysis  Tactile sensors 
Abstract: Myoelectric prosthetic hand users have difficulty with, and frequently avoid, grasping fragile objects with their prosthesis. While the sense of touch is known to be critical for human hand dexterity, it has been virtually absent in prosthetic hands. In this study, a standard myoelectric prosthetic hand was modified with tactile sensors and a simple tactile reflex to inhibit excessive forces on contact. The tactile sensors were made from an open-cell self-skinning polyurethane foam that produced a detectable increase in air pressure inside the foam when contacted. This contact signal was then used by an inhibitory reflex controller which served to reduce the gain of weaker closing signals after contact but allow stronger closing signals to pass through. Four unilateral myoelectric prosthesis users completed five trials of three different timed grasping tasks with fragile and rigid items. Subjects performed each task in three different scenarios: with their sound side limb, their current myoelectric hand, and the modified prosthesis with tactile reflex. Findings demonstrated that grasping performance with fragile objects was significantly enhanced using the modified prosthesis, even nearing the performance of subject's sound side limb. Results suggest that this approach can substantially improve the speed and success of grasping fragile items, leading to improved use patterns, decreased cognitive effort, and improved user confidence.

Title: Development of A Soft Power Suit for Lower Back Assistance*
Key Words: actuators  bending  biomechanics  bone  kinematics  medical control systems  muscle  biomechanical study  fabric construction  twisted string actuators  mechanical stresses  lower back assistance  static forward bending  trunk flexion  bending kinematics  static bending posture  risk factor  muscle activation  lightweight design  tensile forces  force transmission  dynamic lifting  physical load  repetitive heavy lifting  occupational activities  low back pain  soft power suit  Back  Force  Muscles  Fabrics  Thigh  Hip  Actuators 
Abstract: Mechanical stresses on the spine are a significant risk factor for low back pain, a highly prevalent health problem around the world. Certain occupational activities such as repetitive heavy lifting and static bending posture lead to high loads on the lower back. To address this problem, we are developing a soft power suit capable of reducing physical load on the lower back during dynamic lifting and static forward bending. The power suit is designed to mimic the force transmission in the body and duplicate the force generated by muscles and tendons. Two twisted string actuators (TSAs) attached to a back brace are used to generate tensile forces which assist the underlying muscles to control trunk flexion. The fabric construction and TSA enable a lightweight design of the suit: without the battery, the entire system weighs only 2.4kg. Here we present the design and implementation of the prototype system along with a preliminary biomechanical study that evaluates the effect of the system on the body. The results show that the power suit does not change the wearer's bending kinematics and helps the subject to keep the static bending posture. Moreover, using the power suit significantly reduced the muscle activation required for both static bending and dynamic lifting (50.2-54.0% and 21.4-25.2% reduction, respectively).

Title: A new soft fingertip based on electroactive hydrogels
Key Words: control system synthesis  dexterous manipulators  hydrogels  robotic hands  aqueous solutions  fingertip applications  stiffness  electric fields  fingertip properties  electroactive hydrogels  active soft fingertip  Ions  Grasping  Electrodes  Mathematical model  Soft robotics  Polymers 
Abstract: In this work we present the design and application of an active soft fingertip for robotic hands. This fingertip is based on a new type of hydrogel which has been designed with the purpose of overcoming some of the major drawbacks of previous hydrogels such as the dependency of aqueous solutions. Fingertip applications benefit from the changes of stiffness and volume which take place in our hydrogel when electric fields are applied. Theoretical modeling and experimental verification of the fingertip properties are presented in this work, showing its potential usability in grasping and manipulation tasks.

Title: Open Loop Position Control of Soft Continuum Arm Using Deep Reinforcement Learning
Key Words: bending  control engineering computing  learning (artificial intelligence)  manipulator dynamics  neural nets  numerical analysis  pneumatic actuators  position control  torsion  open loop position control  deep reinforcement learning  soft robots  nonlinear spatial deformations  inherent actuation  numerical models  soft spatial continuum arm  unidirectional bending deformation  bidirectional torsional deformation  Deep-Q Learning  continuum arm prototype  external loading conditions  Manipulators  Load modeling  Mathematical model  Numerical models  Strain 
Abstract: Soft robots undergo large nonlinear spatial deformations due to both inherent actuation and external loading. The physics underlying these deformations is complex, and often requires intricate analytical and numerical models. The complexity of these models may render traditional model-based control difficult and unsuitable. Model-free methods offer an alternative for analyzing the behavior of such complex systems without the need for elaborate modeling techniques. In this paper, we present a model-free approach for open loop position control of a soft spatial continuum arm, based on deep reinforcement learning. The continuum arm is pneumatically actuated and attains a spatial work-space by a combination of unidirectional bending and bidirectional torsional deformation. We use Deep-Q Learning with experience replay to train the system in simulation. The efficacy and robustness of the control policy obtained from the system is validated both in simulation and on the continuum arm prototype for varying external loading conditions.

Title: Fast Motion Planning for High-DOF Robot Systems Using Hierarchical System Identification
Key Words: actuators  elasticity  human-robot interaction  learning (artificial intelligence)  motion control  path planning  robot dynamics  robot kinematics  reinforcement-learning-based feedback control  underwater swimming robot  line-actuated elastic robot arm  optimization-based motion planning  hierarchical adaptive grid  forward dynamics  articulated robots  soft robots  hierarchical system identification  high-DOF robot systems  fast motion planning  Dynamics  Planning  Heuristic algorithms  Soft robotics  Finite element analysis  Computational modeling 
Abstract: We present an efficient algorithm for motion planning and controlling a robot system with a high number of degrees-of-freedom (DOF). These systems include high-DOF soft robots and articulated robots interacting with a deformable environment. We present a novel technique to accelerate the evaluations of the forward dynamics function by storing the results of costly computations in a hierarchical adaptive grid. Furthermore, we exploit the underactuated properties of the robot systems and build the grid in a low-dimensional space. Our approach approximates the forward dynamics function with guaranteed error bounds and can be used in optimization-based motion planning and reinforcement-learning-based feed-back control. We highlight the performance on two high-DOF robot systems: a line-actuated elastic robot arm and an underwater swimming robot in water. Compared to prior techniques based on exact dynamics evaluation, we observe one to two orders of magnitude improvement in the performance.

Title: Resilient Task Planning and Execution for Reactive Soft Robots
Key Words: control system synthesis  legged locomotion  temporal logic  physical soft robot  reactive soft robots  compliant materials  rigid bodied systems  soft actuator fabrication methods  multigait walking soft robots  soft materials  resilient task planning  reactive controllers  formal synthesis  sensing-based abstraction  linear temporal logic  Actuators  Legged locomotion  Soft robotics  Robot sensing systems  Task analysis 
Abstract: Soft robots utilize compliant materials to perform motions and behaviors not typically achievable by rigid bodied systems. These materials and soft actuator fabrication methods have been leveraged to create multigait walking soft robots. However, soft materials are prone to failure, restricting the ability of soft robots to accomplish tasks. In this work we address the problem of generating reactive controllers for multigait walking soft robots that are resilient to actuator failure by applying methods of formal synthesis. We present a sensing-based abstraction for actuator performance, provide a framework for encoding multigait behavior and actuator failure in Linear Temporal Logic (LTL), and demonstrate synthesized controllers on a physical soft robot.

Title: Dynamic morphological computation through damping design of soft material robots: application to under-actuated grippers
Key Words: bending  damping  design engineering  dexterous manipulators  elasticity  granular materials  grippers  pneumatic actuators  pneumatic systems  granular material  bending actuators  dynamic morphological computation  damping design  soft material robots  under-actuated grippers  multichamber pneumatic systems  mechanical parameters  stiffness system  viscous oil  immersion  deformation pattern  Damping  Strain  Oils  Viscosity  Robots  Pneumatic systems  Actuators 
Abstract: This article presents the design of soft material robots with tunable damping properties. This study derives from the investigation of an under-actuated dynamic approach involving multi-chamber pneumatic systems. The co-design of the mechanical parameters (stiffness and damping) of the system along with the time profile of the input allows to obtain different behaviors using a reduced number of feeding line. In this work we analyze via simulations and experiments several approaches to tune the damping of soft robots. The most effective solution employs a layer of granular material immersed in viscous oil within the chamber wall. This method has been employed to realize bending actuators with a continuous deformation pattern. Finally, we show an application involving a two-fingered gripper fed by a single pneumatic line, which is able to perform pinch and power grasp.

Title: Augmented Reality Assisted Instrument Insertion and Tool Manipulation for the First Assistant in Robotic Surgery
Key Words: augmented reality  helmet mounted displays  mean square error methods  medical robotics  robot vision  surgery  telerobotics  hand-eye configurations  root-mean-square path deviation  novice assistants  hand-eye coordination  tool manipulation time  navigation time  experienced surgeons  head-mounted display  augmented reality application  ARssist  hand-held tools  FA  robotic-assisted laparoscopic surgery  first assistant  augmented reality assisted instrument insertion  Instruments  Endoscopes  Surgery  Robot kinematics  Tools  Task analysis 
Abstract: In robotic-assisted laparoscopic surgery, the first assistant (FA) stands at the bedside assisting the intervention, while the surgeon sits at the console teleoperating the robot. Tasks for the FA include navigating new instruments into the surgeon's field-of-view and passing in or retracting materials from the body using hand-held tools. We previously developed ARssist, an augmented reality application based on an optical see-through head-mounted display, to aid the FA. In this paper, we refine the system and first perform a pilot study with three experienced surgeons for two specific tasks: instrument insertion and tool manipulation. The results suggest that ARssist would be especially useful for less experienced assistants and for difficult hand-eye configurations. We then perform a multi-user study with inexperienced subjects. The results show that ARssist can reduce navigation time by 34.57%, enhance insertion path consistency by 41.74%, reduce root-mean-square path deviation by 40.04%, and reduce tool manipulation time by 72.25%. Thus, ARssist has the potential to improve efficiency, safety and hand-eye coordination, especially for novice assistants.

Title: High-Fidelity Grasping in Virtual Reality using a Glove-based System
Key Words: computational geometry  computer simulation  data gloves  haptic interfaces  human computer interaction  manipulators  object tracking  virtual reality  physics-based simulation  haptic feedback  glove-based design  collision geometry  Vive Tracker  high-fidelity grasping  virtual objects  caging-based approach  virtual environments  virtual object manipulation  high-fidelity hand  VR  Virtual Reality  real-time stable grasps  hand localization  glove-based system  Haptic interfaces  Robot sensing systems  Vibrations  Real-time systems  Hardware  Geometry 
Abstract: This paper presents a design that jointly provides hand pose sensing, hand localization, and haptic feedback to facilitate real-time stable grasps in Virtual Reality (VR). The design is based on an easy-to-replicate glove-based system that can reliably perform (i) a high-fidelity hand pose sensing in real time through a network of 15 IMUs, and (ii) the hand localization using a Vive Tracker. The supported physics-based simulation in VR is capable of detecting collisions and contact points for virtual object manipulation, which drives the collision event to trigger the physical vibration motors on the glove to signal the user, providing a better realism inside virtual environments. A caging-based approach using collision geometry is integrated to determine whether a grasp is stable. In the experiment, we showcase successful grasps of virtual objects with large geometry variations. Comparing to the popular LeapMotion sensor, we demonstrate the proposed glove-based design yields a higher success rate in various tasks in VR. We hope such a glove-based system can simplify the data collection of human manipulations with VR.

Title: On the role of wearable haptics for force feedback in teleimpedance control for dual-arm robotic teleoperation
Key Words: dexterous manipulators  force feedback  haptic interfaces  telerobotics  haptic sensation  wearable haptic devices  wearable haptics  force feedback  teleimpedance control  dual-arm robotic teleoperation  box placement task  higher mean interaction forces  wearable haptic feedback  safely complete exploratory procedures  deep sea exploration  haptic interactions  dual arm robotic coordination  Task analysis  Force feedback  Force  Manipulators  Robot sensing systems 
Abstract: Robotic teleoperation enables humans to safely complete exploratory procedures in remote locations for applications such as deep sea exploration or building assessments following natural disasters. Successful task completion requires meaningful dual arm robotic coordination and proper understanding of the environment. While these capabilities are inherent to humans via impedance regulation and haptic interactions, they can be challenging to achieve in telerobotic systems. Teleimpedance control has allowed impedance regulation in such applications, and bilateral teleoperation systems aim to restore haptic sensation to the operator, though often at the expense of stability or workspace size. Wearable haptic devices have the potential to apprise the operator of key forces during task completion while maintaining stability and transparency. In this paper, we evaluate the impact of wearable haptics for force feedback in teleimpedance control for dual-arm robotic teleoperation. Participants completed a peg-in-hole, box placement task, aiming to seat as many boxes as possible within the trial period. Experiments were conducted both transparent and opaque boxes. With the opaque box, participants achieved a higher number of successful placements with haptic feedback, and we saw higher mean interaction forces. Results suggest that the provision of wearable haptic feedback may increase confidence when visual cues are obscured.

Title: CNN-SVO: Improving the Mapping in Semi-Direct Visual Odometry Using Single-Image Depth Prediction
Key Words: feature extraction  motion estimation  probability  SLAM (robots)  SVO mapping results  frame rate camera motion estimation  map points  initialized map point  depth uncertainty  single-image depth prediction network  feature location  probabilistic mapping method  direct pixel correspondence  semidirect visual odometry  V-SLAM algorithms  visual simultaneous localization  Uncertainty  Cameras  Visual odometry  Feature extraction  Reliability  Estimation  Motion estimation 
Abstract: Reliable feature correspondence between frames is a critical step in visual odometry (VO) and visual simultaneous localization and mapping (V-SLAM) algorithms. In comparison with existing VO and V-SLAM algorithms, semi-direct visual odometry (SVO) has two main advantages that lead to state-of-the-art frame rate camera motion estimation: direct pixel correspondence and efficient implementation of probabilistic mapping method. This paper improves the SVO mapping by initializing the mean and the variance of the depth at a feature location according to the depth prediction from a single-image depth prediction network. By significantly reducing the depth uncertainty of the initialized map point (i.e., small variance centred about the depth prediction), the benefits are twofold: reliable feature correspondence between views and fast convergence to the true depth in order to create new map points. We evaluate our method with two outdoor datasets: KITTI dataset and Oxford Robotcar dataset. The experimental results indicate that improved SVO mapping results in increased robustness and camera tracking accuracy. The implementation of this work is available at https: //github.com/yan99033/CNN-SVO.

Title: A Unified Framework for Mutual Improvement of SLAM and Semantic Segmentation
Key Words: image motion analysis  image segmentation  mobile robots  pose estimation  robot vision  SLAM (robots)  segmentation algorithms  semantic segmentation  robotics  refined 3D pose information  vision-based tasks  mutual improvement  unified framework  instantaneous motion change handling  long-term changes  simultaneous localization and segmentation  Image segmentation  Task analysis  Robot sensing systems  Motion segmentation  Feature extraction  Three-dimensional displays 
Abstract: This paper presents a novel framework for simultaneously implementing localization and segmentation, which are two of the most important vision-based tasks for robotics. While the goals and techniques used for them were considered to be different previously, we show that by making use of the intermediate results of the two modules, their performance can be enhanced at the same time. Our framework is able to handle both the instantaneous motion and long-term changes of instances in localization with the help of the segmentation result, which also benefits from the refined 3D pose information. We conduct experiments on various datasets, and prove that our framework works effectively on improving the precision and robustness of the two tasks and outperforms existing localization and segmentation algorithms.

Title: MID-Fusion: Octree-based Object-Level Multi-Instance Dynamic SLAM
Key Words: cameras  image colour analysis  image motion analysis  image segmentation  image sequences  object detection  object tracking  octrees  pose estimation  probability  robot vision  SLAM (robots)  video signal processing  robustly track  foreground object probabilities  object model  object-level dynamic volumetric map  instance segmentation part  octree-based object-level multiinstance dynamic SLAM  multiinstance dynamic RGB-D SLAM system  robust camera tracking  geometric motion properties  geometric motion information  object-oriented tracking method  camera pose estimation  semantic motion properties  frequency 2.0 Hz to 3.0 Hz  Cameras  Simultaneous localization and mapping  Tracking  Motion segmentation  Semantics  Dynamics  Measurement uncertainty 
Abstract: We propose a new multi-instance dynamic RGB-D SLAM system using an object-level octree-based volumetric representation. It can provide robust camera tracking in dynamic environments and at the same time, continuously estimate geometric, semantic, and motion properties for arbitrary objects in the scene. For each incoming frame, we perform instance segmentation to detect objects and refine mask boundaries using geometric and motion information. Meanwhile, we estimate the pose of each existing moving object using an object-oriented tracking method and robustly track the camera pose against the static scene. Based on the estimated camera pose and object poses, we associate segmented masks with existing models and incrementally fuse corresponding colour, depth, semantic, and foreground object probabilities into each object model. In contrast to existing approaches, our system is the first system to generate an object-level dynamic volumetric map from a single RGB-D camera, which can be used directly for robotic tasks. Our method can run at 2-3 Hz on a CPU, excluding the instance segmentation part. We demonstrate its effectiveness by quantitatively and qualitatively testing it on both synthetic and real-world sequences.

Title: Surfel-Based Dense RGB-D Reconstruction With Global And Local Consistency
Key Words: computer vision  image colour analysis  image reconstruction  optimisation  pose estimation  surfel-based dense RGB-D reconstruction  local consistency  high surface reconstruction accuracy  dense mapping  vision communities  robotics literature  RGB-D cameras  dense map  depth input  accurate local pose estimation  locally consistent model  pose tracking  offline computer vision methods  structure-from-motion  multiview stereo  batch optimization  global consistency  heavy computation loads  consistent reconstruction  offline SfM pipeline  strong global constraints  off-the-shelf SLAM systems  high local accuracy  factor graph optimization  accurate camera  dense reconstruction  dense SLAM systems  SfM-MVS pipelines  Three-dimensional displays  Simultaneous localization and mapping  Cameras  Pose estimation  Image reconstruction  Geometry 
Abstract: Achieving high surface reconstruction accuracy in dense mapping has been a desirable target for both robotics and vision communities. In the robotics literature, simultaneous localization and mapping (SLAM) systems use RGB-D cameras to reconstruct a dense map of the environment. They leverage the depth input to provide accurate local pose estimation and a locally consistent model. However, drift in the pose tracking over time leads to misalignments and artifacts. On the other hand, offline computer vision methods, such as the pipeline that combines structure-from-motion (SfM) and multi-view stereo (MVS), estimate the camera poses by performing batch optimization. These methods achieve global consistency, but suffer from heavy computation loads. We propose a novel approach that integrates both methods to achieve locally and globally consistent reconstruction. First, we estimate poses of keyframes in the offline SfM pipeline to provide strong global constraints at relatively low cost. Afterwards, we compute odometry between frames driven by off-the-shelf SLAM systems with high local accuracy. We fuse the two pose estimations using factor graph optimization to generate accurate camera poses for dense reconstruction. Experiments on real-world and synthetic datasets demonstrate that our approach produces more accurate models comparing to existing dense SLAM systems, while achieving significant speedup with respect to state-of-the-art SfM-MVS pipelines.

Title: A-SLAM: Human in-the-loop Augmented SLAM
Key Words: augmented reality  human-robot interaction  mobile robots  navigation  path planning  real-time systems  SLAM (robots)  telerobotics  A-SLAM  map editing  navigation-forbidden areas  navigation goals  SLAM algorithm  occupancy grid maps  human in-the-loop augmented SLAM  real environment representation  Microsoft HoloLens  robot teleoperation  pose correction  map correction  AR interface  Simultaneous localization and mapping  Navigation  Collaboration  Three-dimensional displays  Task analysis 
Abstract: In this work, we are proposing an intuitive Augmented SLAM method (A-SLAM) that allows the user to interact, in real-time, with a robot running SLAM to correct for pose and map errors. We built an AR application that works on HoloLens and allows the operator to view the robot's map superposed on the physical environment and edit it. Through map editing, the operator can account for errors affecting real environment's representation by adding navigation-forbidden areas to the map in addition to the ability to correct errors affecting the localization. The proposed system allows the operator to edit the robot's pose (based on SLAM request) and can be extended to sending navigation goals to the robot, viewing the planned path to evaluate it before execution, and teleoperating the robot. The proposed solution could be applied on any 2D-based SLAM algorithm and can easily be extended to 3D SLAM techniques. We validated our system through experimentation on pose correction and map editing. Experiments demonstrated that through A-SLAM, SLAM runtime is cut to half, post-processing of maps is totally eliminated, and high quality occupancy grid maps could be achieved with minimal added computational and hardware costs.

Title: Balance Map Analysis as a Measure of Walking Balance Based on Pendulum-Like Leg Movements
Key Words: legged locomotion  linearisation techniques  motion control  nonlinear control systems  pendulums  state-space methods  balance map analysis  pendulum-like leg movements  swing legs  inverted pendulum  simple pendulum  linearization  nondimensionalization  compass gait model  energy ratio  phase difference  stance leg  swing leg  orbital energy conservation  step transition  balance loss  state space  reachability  walking balance  Legged locomotion  Trajectory  Orbits  Mathematical model  Compass  Computational modeling  Computer simulation 
Abstract: This paper proposes an analysis of walking balance in terms of movements of stance and swing legs based on an inverted pendulum and a simple pendulum. Linearization, decoupling, and non-dimensionalization of a compass gait model enable to characterize the relationship of the trajectories between the stance and swing legs by only two parameters (energy ratio and phase difference). The energy ratio is defined by the ratio of the orbital energy between the pendulums. The phase difference represents the position of the stance leg in relation to the swing leg. This study considers an orbital energy conservation of a step transition and analyzes reachability of a desirable touchdown condition. If the time evolution from a current state is not reachable to the desired touchdown region, the state is labeled as a state in balance loss. By analyzing the reachability limits of the energy ratio and phase difference, we illustrate the balance loss and safe regions on the state space of the inverted pendulum, which is termed as balance map. We examined the effects of the simplification and linearization of the compass gait model by using computer simulations. Through the simulations of walking with perturbations, we confirmed that the balance map analysis could predict a future fall in an early phase for even trajectories derived by the nonlinear model.

Title: Non-parametric Imitation Learning of Robot Motor Skills
Key Words: learning (artificial intelligence)  mobile robots  nonparametric imitation learning  robot motor skills  learning capabilities  learning approach  kernel treatment  human skills  correlation-adaptive imitation learning  collaborative task  Trajectory  Robots  Task analysis  Probabilistic logic  Kernel  Databases  Correlation 
Abstract: Unstructured environments impose several challenges when robots are required to perform different tasks and adapt to unseen situations. In this context, a relevant problem arises: how can robots learn to perform various tasks and adapt to different conditions? A potential solution is to endow robots with learning capabilities. In this line, imitation learning emerges as an intuitive way to teach robots different motor skills. This learning approach typically mimics human demonstrations by extracting invariant motion patterns and subsequently applies these patterns to new situations. In this paper, we propose a novel kernel treatment of imitation learning, which endows the robot with imitative and adaptive capabilities. In particular, due to the kernel treatment, the proposed approach is capable of learning human skills associated with high-dimensional inputs. Furthermore, we study a new concept of correlation-adaptive imitation learning, which allows for the adaptation of correlations exhibited in high-dimensional demonstrated skills. Several toy examples and a collaborative task with a real robot are provided to verify the effectiveness of our approach.

Title: Dynamic Stepping on Unknown Obstacles With Upper-Body Compliance and Angular Momentum Damping From the Reaction Null-Space
Key Words: acceleration control  angular momentum  damping  feedback  legged locomotion  motion control  robot dynamics  stability  short time interval  reaction null-space  stepping time  general whole-body controller  relative angular acceleration control component  angular momentum damping  dynamic stepping  unknown obstacles  upper-body compliance  robot steps  unknown height  RNS  iterative optimization  simulated dynamic stepping  Acceleration  Robots  Optimization  Damping  Dynamics  Task analysis  Collision avoidance 
Abstract: Contact destabilization after an impact that occurs at high-speed, e.g. when a robot steps on an obstacle of unknown height, can be tackled by injecting angular momentum damping for a short time interval immediately after the impact. This is done by making use of the motion from within the reaction null-space (RNS). The angular momentum damping results in an appropriate arm motion that stabilizes the contacts. An impact at high-speed occurs when the stepping time is very short. In this case, conventional controllers cannot handle the reaction stemming from the swing leg dynamics. A general whole-body controller is designed that makes use of the relative angular acceleration control component to inject the angular momentum damping. The proposed control method is robust; it can deal with obstacles of various height and inclination without altering the feedback gains. The controller is fast since iterative optimization is avoided. The performance is examined via a simulated dynamic stepping.

Title: Efficient Humanoid Contact Planning using Learned Centroidal Dynamics Prediction
Key Words: computational complexity  convex programming  humanoid robots  integer programming  legged locomotion  mobile robots  navigation  path planning  robot dynamics  learned centroidal dynamics prediction  humanoid robots  intermittent contact  contact sequence  quasistatic balance criterion  dynamic motions  efficient mixed integer convex programming solvers  dynamic contact sequences  short time horizon contact sequences  dynamic evolution  robot centroidal momenta  dynamically robust contact sequences  search-based contact planner  humanoid contact planning  Dynamics  Planning  End effectors  Legged locomotion  Humanoid robots  Optimization 
Abstract: Humanoid robots dynamically navigate an environment by interacting with it via contact wrenches exerted at intermittent contact poses. Therefore, it is important to consider dynamics when planning a contact sequence. Traditional contact planning approaches assume a quasi-static balance criterion to reduce the computational challenges of selecting a contact sequence over a rough terrain. This however limits the applicability of the approach when dynamic motions are required, such as when walking down a steep slope or crossing a wide gap. Recent methods overcome this limitation with the help of efficient mixed integer convex programming solvers capable of synthesizing dynamic contact sequences. Nevertheless, its exponential-time complexity limits its applicability to short time horizon contact sequences within small environments. In this paper, we go beyond current approaches by learning a prediction of the dynamic evolution of the robot centroidal momenta, which can then be used for quickly generating dynamically robust contact sequences for robots with arms and legs using a search-based contact planner. We demonstrate the efficiency and quality of the results of the proposed approach in a set of dynamically challenging scenarios.

Title: Scalable Closed-Form Trajectories for Periodic and Non-Periodic Human-Like Walking
Key Words: gait analysis  medical control systems  optimal control  trajectory control  humanoid robots  linear simplified model  nonperiodic walking  lower-limb trajectories  closed-form trajectories  torso style  body mass  gait parameters  body properties  walking gaits  numerical optimization  geometric variables  kinematic conversion  stabilization  gait generation  footstep locations  optimal time-projecting controller  Legged locomotion  Trajectory  Pelvis  Foot  Kinematics  Torso  Knee 
Abstract: We present a new framework to generate human-like lower-limb trajectories in periodic and non-periodic walking. In our method, walking dynamics is encoded in 3LP, a linear simplified model composed of three pendulums to simulate falling, swing, and torso balancing dynamics. To stabilize the motion, we use an optimal time-projecting controller which suggests new footstep locations. On top of gait generation and stabilization in the simplified space, we introduce a kinematic conversion that synthesizes more humanlike trajectories by combining geometric variables of the 3LP model adaptively. Without any tuning, numerical optimization or off-line data, our walking gaits are scalable with respect to body properties and gait parameters. We can change body mass and height, walking direction, speed, frequency, double support time, torso style, ground clearance, and terrain inclinations. We can also simulate constant external dragging forces or momentary perturbations. The proposed framework offers closed-form solutions with simulation speeds orders of magnitude faster than real time. This can be used for video games and animations on portable electronic devices with limited power. It also gives insights for generation of more human-like walking gaits on humanoid robots.

Title: Flying STAR, a Hybrid Crawling and Flying Sprawl Tuned Robot
Key Words: control engineering computing  helicopters  legged locomotion  mobile robots  path planning  three-dimensional printing  Flying STAR  hybrid crawling  reconfigurable hybrid  quadcopter robot  STAR robots  sprawling mechanism  propellers  FSTAR robot  experimental robot  flying modes  flying sprawl tuned robot  running modes  3D printed prototype  Mobile robots  Wheels  Servomotors  Propellers  Torque  Force  Crawling Robot  Flying Robot  Mechanical Design  Reconfigurable Robot  Sprawl Tuning 
Abstract: This paper presents Flying STAR (FSTAR) a reconfigurable hybrid flying quadcopter robot. FSTAR is the latest in the family of the STAR robots fitted with a sprawling mechanism and propellers allowing it to both run and fly using the same motors. The combined capabilities of running and flying allows FSTAR to fly over obstacles or run underneath them and move inside pipes. The robot can reduce its width to crawl in confined spaces or underneath obstacles while touching the ground. We first describe the design of the robot and the configuration of the wheels and propellers in the flying and running modes. Then we present the 3D printed prototype of the FSTAR robot which we used for our experiments. We evaluate the energy requirements of the robot and the forces it can generate. The experimental robot can fly like an ordinary quadcopter but can also run on the ground at a speed of up to 2.6 m/s to save energy (see video).

Title: Autonomous Cooperative Flight of Rigidly Attached Quadcopters
Key Words: adaptive control  aircraft control  autonomous aerial vehicles  helicopters  learning (artificial intelligence)  parameter estimation  quadcopter inertial measurement units  IMU  plug and play assembly  reinforcement learning  quadcopters stable operation  autonomous flight  controller parameters  adaptive controller architecture  estimated physical attachment  short online experiments  physical structure  automatic control  online parameter estimation  rigidly attached quadcopters  autonomous cooperative flight  Propellers  Estimation  Acceleration  Parameter estimation  Adaptation models  Force  Measurement units 
Abstract: In this paper, a method for online parameter estimation and automatic control of a system of rigidly attached quadcopters is introduced. First, the method performs an estimation of the physical structure attaching the quadcopters by relying solely on information from the quadcopters' Inertial Measurement Units (IMU). This information is obtained via simple and short online experiments, allowing their plug and play assembly without any human intervention. Then, given the estimated physical attachment's parameters, a stable operation of the quadcopters is achieved via an adaptive controller architecture, where the controller parameters are obtained using Reinforcement Learning. Finally, experimental results validate the proposed method, showing that a correct estimation of the physical structure is obtained allowing the autonomous flight of a pair of attached quadcopters.

Title: Energy Optimal Control Allocation in a Redundantly Actuated Omnidirectional UAV
Key Words: autonomous aerial vehicles  convex programming  motion control  optimal control  propellers  trajectory control  energy optimal control allocation  redundantly actuated omnidirectional UAV  actuation model  control allocation strategy  redundantly-actuated multirotor unmanned aerial vehicle  omnicopter  actuation redundancy  inverse actuator model  propeller airflows  convex constrained optimization problem  propellers thrusts  propeller thrust limits  underactuated multirotors  motion trajectories  Propellers  Actuators  Atmospheric modeling  Aerodynamics  Pulse width modulation  Resource management 
Abstract: This paper presents a novel actuation model and control allocation strategy for a redundantly-actuated multirotor unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV), referred to as the omnicopter. With an unconventional configuration, the omnicopter's eight propellers are able to produce all the six components of net force/torque, with two degrees of actuation redundancy. This enables the vehicle to execute motion trajectories unattainable with conventional underactuated multi-rotors. A new inverse actuator model is proposed that accounts for the significant interactions between propeller airflows by relating their output thrust forces to their input motor commands. Actuation redundancy is resolved by solving a convex constrained optimization problem. Its solution yields the most power efficient set of propellers thrusts that would produce a required net force/torque, while respecting the propeller thrust limits. When the required force/torque is infeasible due to the thrust limits, the solution would minimize the norm of the error between the desired and actual net force/torque vectors. Experimental results demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed model and control allocation strategy.

Title: Development of SAM: cable-Suspended Aerial Manipulator*
Key Words: actuators  aerospace robotics  cables (mechanical)  collision avoidance  control system synthesis  manipulators  stability  SAM  rotor blades  robotic manipulator  aerial carrier  actuation systems  suspended aerial manipulator  collision risk  winches  propulsion units  Manipulators  Winches  Legged locomotion  Propellers  Task analysis 
Abstract: High risk of a collision between rotor blades and the obstacles in a complex environment imposes restrictions on the aerial manipulators. To solve this issue, a novel system cable-Suspended Aerial Manipulator (SAM) is presented in this paper. Instead of attaching a robotic manipulator directly to an aerial carrier, it is mounted on an active platform which is suspended on the carrier by means of a cable. As a result, higher safety can be achieved because the aerial carrier can keep a distance from the obstacles. For self-stabilization, the SAM is equipped with two actuation systems: winches and propulsion units. This paper presents an overview of the SAM including the concept behind, hardware realization, control strategy, and the first experimental results.

Title: The Phoenix Drone: An Open-Source Dual-Rotor Tail-Sitter Platform for Research and Education
Key Words: aerodynamics  aerospace components  aerospace robotics  aircraft control  autonomous aerial vehicles  educational robots  helicopters  microrobots  mobile robots  rotors  educational purposes  design methodology  open-source Phoenix reference design  software design  Phoenix drone  open-source dual-rotor tail-sitter platform  open-source tail-sitter microaerial vehicle platform  dual-rotor design  open-source release  design documents  high-performance tail-sitter  testing  open-source materials  aerodynamics  flight control  state estimation  Open source software  Propellers  Aerodynamics  Vehicle dynamics  Attitude control  Drones  Atmospheric modeling 
Abstract: In this paper, we introduce the Phoenix drone: the first completely open-source tail-sitter micro aerial vehicle (MAV) platform. The vehicle has a highly versatile, dual-rotor design and is engineered to be low-cost and easily extensible/modifiable. Our open-source release includes all of the design documents, software resources, and simulation tools needed to build and fly a high-performance tail-sitter for research and educational purposes.The drone has been developed for precision flight with a high degree of control authority. Our design methodology included extensive testing and characterization of the aerodynamic properties of the vehicle. The platform incorporates many off-the-shelf components and 3D-printed parts, in order to keep the cost down. Nonetheless, the paper includes results from flight trials which demonstrate that the vehicle is capable of very stable hovering and accurate trajectory tracking.Our hope is that the open-source Phoenix reference design will be useful to both researchers and educators. In particular, the details in this paper and the available open-source materials should enable learners to gain an understanding of aerodynamics, flight control, state estimation, software design, and simulation, while experimenting with a unique aerial robot.

Title: 1-Actuator 3-DoF Manipulation Using an Underactuated Mechanism with Multiple Nonparallel and Viscoelastic Passive Joints
Key Words: actuators  end effectors  manipulator dynamics  manipulator kinematics  motion control  plates (structures)  position control  viscoelasticity  sinusoidal displacement input  orbital shape  orbital direction  input frequency  switching frequency  mechanical parameters  three-DoF manipulation  plate orbital motions  1-actuator 3-DoF manipulation  underactuated mechanism  multiple nonparallel  nonprehensile manipulation  planar part  manipulator  flat plate end effector  active joint joints  multiple passive viscoelastic joints  joint axes  viscoelastic passive joints  Orbits  Actuators  End effectors  Layout  Switches  Manipulator dynamics 
Abstract: This paper presents a nonprehensile manipulation based on the vibration of a plate, in which three degrees of freedom (DoF) of a planar part are controlled using only one actuator. First, the model of a manipulator with a flat plate end effector is proposed. The manipulator employs an underactuated mechanism including an active joint and multiple passive viscoelastic joints, in which the joint axes are arranged nonparallel to each other. Based on the model, the orbit of the plate for a sinusoidal displacement input to the active joint is theoretically derived. It is revealed that not only the orbital shape but also the orbital direction can be varied according to the input frequency. Based on the switching frequency of the orbital direction, a design index for the mechanical parameters is shown. Subsequently, the contribution of the switching of the orbital direction to the three-DoF manipulation of a part is explored via simulation. Eight primitives utilizing the plate orbital motions in both counter-clockwise and clockwise directions are provided. Finally, the proposed method is demonstrated by experiments.

Title: Spline Based Curve Path Following of Underactuated Snake Robots
Key Words: biomimetics  interpolation  mobile robots  motion control  path planning  splines (mathematics)  time-varying systems  underactuated snake robots  planar underactuated bio-inspired snake robots  time-varying line-of-sight guidance law  cubic spline interpolation path-planning method  snake robot motion control  8-link custom-built snake robot  spline based curve path following  integral controller  Snake robots  Friction  Turning  Splines (mathematics)  Interpolation  Mathematical model 
Abstract: This paper investigates the curve path following problem for a class of planar underactuated bio-inspired snake robots. The time-varying line-of-sight (LOS) guidance law and the cubic spline interpolation (CSI) path-planning method are employed. Existing studies focus on straight line path following which only gives a solution for snake robot motion control in relatively simple environments. Considering the snake robot's many degrees of freedom and excellent mobility in terrains, we propose a more applicable solution of curve path following for snake robots on the ground. The improved LOS helps the snake robot to steer aggressively at a sharp turning point. Furthermore, to avoid the sideslip of the snake robot caused by the ground friction change, an integral controller is introduced in the design of the heading reference. Simulations and experiments on an 8-link custom-built snake robot are conducted and the results demonstrate and validate the effectiveness of the proposed curve path following algorithm.

Title: High-Bandwidth Control of Twisted String Actuators
Key Words: actuators  adaptive control  control system synthesis  feedforward  parameter estimation  position control  twisted string behavior  adaptive control methodology  TSA-based systems  online parameter estimation  outline adaptive estimation methods  variable controller gain  adaptive control architecture  high-bandwidth control  adaptive control strategies  TSA control system  mechatronics  twisted string actuators  Mathematical model  Robots  Adaptation models  Jacobian matrices  Adaptive control  Task analysis  Actuators  Tendon/Wire Mechanism  Motion Control  Learning and Adaptive Systems 
Abstract: Twisted string actuators are an emerging type of transmission systems that may benefit various applications of robotics and mechatronics. However, control of TSAs in applications that require high bandwidth has attracted comparatively little interest from research community, mainly due to complexity of twisted string behavior. This paper proposes a new adaptive control methodology that allows to sufficiently increase bandwidth of TSA-based systems. We reformulate mathematical model of the TSA into a suitable form for online parameter estimation, outline adaptive estimation methods and propose a method to design variable controller gain that rectifies nonlinearities in the system. we present experimental comparison of proposed adaptive control strategies with two conventional tsa control techniques. experimental results demonstrated that the proposed adaptive control architecture with feedforward speed term was nearly insensitive to increase in input signal frequency while reducing position tracking error by 80%. proposed algorithm can be applied in any tsa control system that has input and output signal measurements.

Title: TREE: A Variable Topology, Branching Continuum Robot
Key Words: adaptive systems  manipulators  TREE  variable topology  cleaning operations  hard-to-reach environments  hybrid concentric-tube  fully retractable continuum branches  branching continuum robot  inspection operations  tendon actuated continuum trunk core  Electron tubes  Tendons  Prototypes  Manipulators  Meters  Inspection 
Abstract: We describe the design and physical realization of a novel branching continuum robot, aimed at inspection and cleaning operations in hard-to-reach environments at depths greater than human arm lengths. The design, based on a hybrid concentric-tube/tendon actuated continuum trunk core, features two pairs of fully retractable continuum branches. The retractable nature of the branches allows the robot to actively change its topology, allowing it to penetrate narrow openings and expand to adaptively engage complex environmental geometries. We detail and discuss the realization of a physical prototype of the design, and its testing in a simulated glove box environment.

Title: Model Based In Situ Calibration with Temperature compensation of 6 axis Force Torque Sensors
Key Words: calibration  compensation  force measurement  force sensors  humanoid robots  temperature measurement  temperature sensors  torque measurement  temperature compensation  sensor measurements  model based in situ calibration  6 axis force torque sensors method  strain gauges  F-T measurement  humanoid robot platform iCub  Temperature sensors  Temperature measurement  Calibration  Robot sensing systems  Strain measurement  Force Torque Sensing  Calibration and Identification  Humanoid Robots 
Abstract: It is well known that sensors using strain gauges have a potential dependency on temperature. This creates temperature drift in the measurements of six axis force torque sensors (F/T). The temperature drift can be considerable if an experiment is long or the environmental conditions are different from when the calibration of the sensor was performed. Other in situ methods disregard the effect of temperature on the sensor measurements. Experiments performed using the humanoid robot platform iCub show that the effect of temperature is relevant. The model based in situ calibration of six axis force torque sensors method is extended to perform temperature compensation.

Title: Whole-Body Active Compliance Control for Humanoid Robots with Robot Skin
Key Words: compliance control  humanoid robots  human-robot interaction  mobile robots  motion control  position control  skin  tactile sensors  control systems  control framework  skin cells  whole-body active compliance control  multicontact interactions  whole-body control methods  human environments  humanoid robots  body active compliance control  position-controlled stiff humanoid robot  multiple control strategies  robot body  full-size humanoid robot  robot skin  multimodal tactile information  compliant robots  tactile sensor information  physical interactions  online information  touch sensing  Skin  Robot sensing systems  Task analysis  Legged locomotion  Humanoid robots 
Abstract: Humanoid robots are expected to interact in human environments, where physical interactions are unavoidable. Therefore, whole-body control methods that include multi-contact interactions are required. The new emerging technologies in touch sensing are fundamental to acquire online and rich information about these physical interactions with the environment. These technologies lead to the design of novel control systems that can profit from the tactile sensor information in an efficient form, thus producing reactive and compliant robots capable of interacting with their environment. In this paper, we present a novel control framework to integrate the multi-modal tactile information of a robot skin with different control strategies, producing dynamic behaviours suitable for Human-Robot Interactions (HRI). The control framework was experimentally evaluated on a full-size humanoid robot covered with more than 1260 skin cells distributed in the whole robot body. The results show that multi-modal tactile information can be fused hierarchically with multiple control strategies, producing active compliance in a position-controlled stiff humanoid robot.

Title: Internal Array Electrodes Improve the Spatial Resolution of Soft Tactile Sensors Based on Electrical Resistance Tomography
Key Words: electrodes  tactile sensors  tomography  soft tactile sensors  electrical resistance tomography  unstructured environments  whole-body tactile sensors  complex electrical wiring  sensing elements  reconstruction method  sensing region  central region  ERT approach  optimal pairwise current injection patterns  ERT system  electrode pair  fabric-based soft tactile sensor  sensor-specific calibration  constructed sensor  internal array electrodes  frequency 200.0 Hz  Electrodes  Tactile sensors  Conductivity  Voltage measurement  Spatial resolution  Fabrics 
Abstract: Robots operating in unstructured environments would benefit from soft whole-body tactile sensors, but implementing such systems typically requires complex electrical wiring to a large number of sensing elements. The reconstruction method called electrical resistance tomography (ERT) has shown promising results (good coverage, manufacturability, and robustness) using electrodes located only along the boundary of the sensing region. However, relatively poor spatial resolution in the sensor's central region is a major drawback of the ERT approach. This paper introduces a new scheme of internal array electrodes to improve spatial resolution. We also systematically derive the optimal pairwise current injection patterns from a mathematical formulation of the ERT system. By highlighting the importance of each electrode pair, this approach enabled us to reduce the number of current injection patterns. Simulation of the standard and proposed sensor designs revealed that the internal array electrodes greatly improve distinguishability in the central region. For validation, a fabric-based soft tactile sensor made of multiple conductive fabrics was developed, including electronics that enable sampling at 200 Hz. During a 225-point localization test conducted without sensor-specific calibration, the constructed sensor showed average localization errors of 2.85 cm ± 1.02 cm. This result is notable because only 16 point electrodes were used to achieve this performance.

Title: Dense Tactile Force Estimation using GelSlim and inverse FEM
Key Words: deformation  finite element analysis  image sensors  tactile sensors  tactile sensor  GelSlim 2  inverse FEM  Kendama manipulations  force field  reconstructed force distribution  marker displacements  inverse finite element method  gel pad  contact force distribution  dense tactile force estimation  Force  Tactile sensors  Finite element analysis  Cameras  Force measurement  Strain 
Abstract: In this paper, we present a new version of tactile sensor GelSlim 2.0 with the capability to estimate the contact force distribution in real time. The sensor is vision-based and uses an array of markers to track deformations on a gel pad due to contact. A new hardware design makes the sensor more rugged, parametrically adjusTable AND Improves illumination. leveraging the sensor's increased functionality, we propose to use inverse finite element method (ifem), a numerical method to reconstruct the contact force distribution based on marker displacements. the sensor is able to provide force distribution of contact with high spatial density. experiments and comparison with ground truth show that the reconstructed force distribution is physically reasonable with good accuracy.A sequence of Kendama manipulations with corresponding displacement field (yellow) and force field (red). Video can be found on Youtube: https://youtu.be/hWw9A0ZBZuU.

Title: Pose Graph optimization for Unsupervised Monocular Visual Odometry
Key Words: graph theory  neural nets  optimisation  pose estimation  unsupervised learning  pose graph optimization  unsupervised monocular visual odometry  unsupervised learning  label-free leaning ability  drift correction technique  large-scale odometry estimation  loop closure detection  hybrid VO system  NeuralBundler  temporal loss  spatial photometric loss  multiview 6DoF constraints  cycle consistency loss  global pose graph  local loop 6DoF constraints  KITTI odometry dataset  unsupervised monocular VO estimation  monocular SLAM systems  Optimization  Visual odometry  Simultaneous localization and mapping  Cameras  Training  Neural networks  Estimation 
Abstract: Unsupervised Learning based monocular visual odometry (VO) has lately drawn significant attention for its potential in label-free leaning ability and robustness to camera parameters and environmental variations. However, partially due to the lack of drift correction technique, these methods are still by far less accurate than geometric approaches for large-scale odometry estimation. In this paper, we propose to leverage graph optimization and loop closure detection to overcome limitations of unsupervised learning based monocular visual odometry. To this end, we propose a hybrid VO system which combines an unsupervised monocular VO called NeuralBundler with a pose graph optimization back-end. NeuralBundler is a neural network architecture that uses temporal and spatial photometric loss as main supervision and generates a windowed pose graph consists of multi-view 6DoF constraints. We propose a novel pose cycle consistency loss to relieve the tensions in the windowed pose graph, leading to improved performance and robustness. In the back-end, a global pose graph is built from local and loop 6DoF constraints estimated by NeuralBundler, and is optimized over SE(3). Empirical evaluation on the KITTI odometry dataset demonstrates that 1) NeuralBundler achieves state-of-the-art performance on unsupervised monocular VO estimation, and 2) our whole approach can achieve efficient loop closing and show favorable overall translational accuracy compared to established monocular SLAM systems.

Title: Probably Unknown: Deep Inverse Sensor Modelling Radar
Key Words: image segmentation  learning (artificial intelligence)  neural nets  object detection  optical radar  probability  radar computing  radar imaging  autonomous vehicle applications  weather conditions  raw radar power returns  sensor noise  occlusion  Inverse Sensor Model  grid map  grid cell  heteroscedastic uncertainty  deep Inverse Sensor modelling radar  sensor observation  model formulation  standard CFAR filtering approaches  dynamic urban environment  world occupancy  lidar  partial occupancy labels  deep neural network  occupancy probabilities  Uncertainty  Robot sensing systems  Laser radar  Training  Spaceborne radar  Neural networks 
Abstract: Radar presents a promising alternative to lidar and vision in autonomous vehicle applications, able to detect objects at long range under a variety of weather conditions. However, distinguishing between occupied and free space from raw radar power returns is challenging due to complex interactions between sensor noise and occlusion. To counter this we propose to learn an Inverse Sensor Model (ISM) converting a raw radar scan to a grid map of occupancy probabilities using a deep neural network. Our network is selfsupervised using partial occupancy labels generated by lidar, allowing a robot to learn about world occupancy from past experience without human supervision. We evaluate our approach on five hours of data recorded in a dynamic urban environment. By accounting for the scene context of each grid cell our model is able to successfully segment the world into occupied and free space, outperforming standard CFAR filtering approaches. Additionally by incorporating heteroscedastic uncertainty into our model formulation, we are able to quantify the variance in the uncertainty throughout the sensor observation. Through this mechanism we are able to successfully identify regions of space that are likely to be occluded.

Title: Uncertainty-Aware Occupancy Map Prediction Using Generative Networks for Robot Navigation
Key Words: mobile robots  multi-robot systems  neural net architecture  path planning  sensor field of view  sensor FOV  generated hypotheses  information-theoretic exploration strategy  combined map prediction  neural network architecture  custom loss function  deep neural networks  future robot motions  sensor data  occupancy map representations  biological systems  sensor field  future motion  robotic systems  robot navigation  generative networks  uncertainty-aware occupancy map prediction  Neural networks  Robot sensing systems  Training  Measurement  Navigation  Uncertainty 
Abstract: Efficient exploration through unknown environments remains a challenging problem for robotic systems. In these situations, the robot's ability to reason about its future motion is often severely limited by sensor field of view (FOV). By contrast, biological systems routinely make decisions by taking into consideration what might exist beyond their FOV based on prior experience. We present an approach for predicting occupancy map representations of sensor data for future robot motions using deep neural networks. We develop a custom loss function used to make accurate prediction while emphasizing physical boundaries. We further study extensions to our neural network architecture to account for uncertainty and ambiguity inherent in mapping and exploration. Finally, we demonstrate a combined map prediction and information-theoretic exploration strategy using the variance of the generated hypotheses as the heuristic for efficient exploration of unknown environments.

Title: Empty Cities: Image Inpainting for a Dynamic-Object-Invariant Space
Key Words: augmented reality  convolutional neural nets  image classification  image restoration  image segmentation  learning (artificial intelligence)  mobile robots  object detection  object recognition  robot vision  augmented reality  static structure  image inpainting  dynamic-object-invariant space  vehicles  pedestrians  plausible imagery  multiclass semantic segmentation  inpainting methods  deep learning  generative adversarial model  convolutional network  vision-based robot localization  visual place recognition  Vehicle dynamics  Semantics  Task analysis  Image segmentation  Deep learning  Image reconstruction  Training 
Abstract: In this paper we present an end-to-end deep learning framework to turn images that show dynamic content, such as vehicles or pedestrians, into realistic static frames. This objective encounters two main challenges: detecting all the dynamic objects, and inpainting the static occluded background with plausible imagery. The former challenge is addressed by the use of a convolutional network that learns a multiclass semantic segmentation of the image. The second problem is approached with a conditional generative adversarial model that, taking as input the original dynamic image and its dynamic/static binary mask, is capable of generating the final static image. These generated images can be used for applications such as augmented reality or vision-based robot localization purposes. To validate our approach, we show both qualitative and quantitative comparisons against other state-of-the-art inpainting methods by removing the dynamic objects and hallucinating the static structure behind them. Furthermore, to demonstrate the potential of our results, we carry out pilot experiments that show the benefits of our proposal for visual place recognition.

Title: Autonomous Exploration, Reconstruction, and Surveillance of 3D Environments Aided by Deep Learning
Key Words: collision avoidance  learning (artificial intelligence)  mobile robots  multi-robot systems  neural nets  autonomous exploration  surveillance  greedy learning approach  supervised learning approach  level set representation  convolutional neural network  visibility  on-line computational cost  topologically accurate maps  complex 3D environments  frontier-based strategies  potential vantage points  deep learning approaches  obstacle avoidance  local navigation  global exploration problem  3D urban environments  Training  Level set  Surveillance  Three-dimensional displays  Two dimensional displays  Sensors  Convolution 
Abstract: We propose a greedy and supervised learning approach for visibility-based exploration, reconstruction and surveillance. Using a level set representation, we train a convolutional neural network to determine vantage points that maximize visibility. We show that this method drastically reduces the on-line computational cost and determines a small set of vantage points that solve the problem. This enables us to efficiently produce highly-resolved and topologically accurate maps of complex 3D environments. Unlike traditional next-best-view and frontier-based strategies, the proposed method accounts for geometric priors while evaluating potential vantage points. While existing deep learning approaches focus on obstacle avoidance and local navigation, our method aims at finding near-optimal solutions to the more global exploration problem. We present realistic simulations on 2D and 3D urban environments.

Title: GANVO: Unsupervised Deep Monocular Visual Odometry and Depth Estimation with Generative Adversarial Networks
Key Words: cameras  convolutional neural nets  distance measurement  image colour analysis  image motion analysis  image sequences  pose estimation  unsupervised learning  unlabelled RGB image sequences  deep convolutional Generative Adversarial Networks  single-view depth generation network  unsupervised deep VO methods  unsupervised deep monocular visual odometry  depth estimation  supervised deep learning approaches  visual odometry applications  unsupervised deep learning approaches  VO research  generative unsupervised learning framework  multiview pose estimation  6-DoF pose camera motion  Image reconstruction  Pose estimation  Cameras  Deep learning  Training  Feature extraction  Gallium nitride 
Abstract: In the last decade, supervised deep learning approaches have been extensively employed in visual odometry (VO) applications, which is not feasible in environments where labelled data is not abundant. On the other hand, unsupervised deep learning approaches for localization and mapping in unknown environments from unlabelled data have received comparatively less attention in VO research. In this study, we propose a generative unsupervised learning framework that predicts 6-DoF pose camera motion and monocular depth map of the scene from unlabelled RGB image sequences, using deep convolutional Generative Adversarial Networks (GANs). We create a supervisory signal by warping view sequences and assigning the re-projection minimization to the objective loss function that is adopted in multi-view pose estimation and single-view depth generation network. Detailed quantitative and qualitative evaluations of the proposed framework on the KITTI [1] and Cityscapes [2] datasets show that the proposed method outperforms both existing traditional and unsupervised deep VO methods providing better results for both pose estimation and depth recovery.

Title: Fast Instance and Semantic Segmentation Exploiting Local Connectivity, Metric Learning, and One-Shot Detection for Robotics
Key Words: convolutional neural nets  image segmentation  learning (artificial intelligence)  neural net architecture  object detection  robot vision  metric learning  one-shot detection  semantic scene understanding  autonomous robots  dynamic environments  instance segmentation  multitask convolutional neural network architecture  object instances  local connectivity  semantic segmentation  Semantics  Image segmentation  Decoding  Feature extraction  Task analysis  Robots  Object detection 
Abstract: Semantic scene understanding is important for autonomous robots that aim to navigate dynamic environments, manipulate objects, or interact with humans in a natural way. In this paper, we address the problem of jointly performing semantic segmentation as well as instance segmentation in an online fashion, so that autonomous robots can use this information on-the-go and without sacrificing accuracy. We achieve this by exploiting a local connectivity prior of objects in the real world and a multi-task convolutional neural network architecture. The network identifies the individual object instances and their classes without region proposals or pre-segmentation of the images into individual classes. We implemented and thoroughly evaluated our approach, and our experiments suggest that our method can be used to accurately segment instance masks of objects and identify their class in an online fashion.

Title: Adding Cues to Binary Feature Descriptors for Visual Place Recognition
Key Words: feature extraction  image retrieval  binary feature descriptors  visual place recognition  multidimensional continuous cues  feature descriptor  binary string  continuous cue  binary descriptor types  Hamming distance  Search problems  Quantization (signal)  Visualization  Measurement  Simultaneous localization and mapping  Image retrieval 
Abstract: In this paper we propose an approach to embed multi-dimensional continuous cues in binary feature descriptors used for visual place recognition. The embedding is achieved by extending each feature descriptor with a binary string that encodes a cue and supports the Hamming distance metric. Augmenting the descriptors in such a way has the advantage of being transparent to the procedure used to compare them. We present a concrete application of our methodology, demonstrating the considered type of continuous cue. Additionally, we conducted a broad quantitative and comparative evaluation on that application, covering five benchmark datasets and several state-of-the-art image retrieval approaches in combination with various binary descriptor types.

Title: Recursive Bayesian Classification for Perception of Evolving Targets using a Gaussian Toroid Prediction Model
Key Words: Bayes methods  belief networks  feature extraction  Gaussian processes  image classification  real-time systems  recursive estimation  uncertainty handling  Gaussian toroid prediction model  probabilistic framework  recursive Bayesian estimation  perception-oriented context  recursive Bayesian classification scheme  high-dimensional belief spaces  evolving target classification  perception target evolution  RBC scheme  feature extraction  multiGaussian belief representation  real-time analysis  observational uncertainty  Predictive models  Bayes methods  Probabilistic logic  Probability density function  Estimation  Decision making  Mathematical model 
Abstract: This paper proposes a probabilistic framework for classification of evolving targets, leveraging the principles of recursive Bayesian estimation in a perception-oriented context. By implementing a Gaussian toroid prediction model of the perception target's evolution, the proposed recursive Bayesian classification (RBC) scheme provides probabilistically robust classification. Appropriate features are extracted from the target, which is then probabilistically represented in a belief space. This approach is capable of handling high-dimensional belief spaces, while simultaneously allowing for multi-Gaussian representation of belief without computational complexity that hinders real-time analysis. The proposed technique is validated over several parameter values by thousands of simulated experiments, where it is shown to outperform naıve classification when high observational uncertainty is present.

Title: Large-Scale Object Mining for Object Discovery from Unlabeled Video
Key Words: data mining  image representation  object tracking  pattern clustering  traffic engineering computing  video signal processing  video streaming  generic object tracker  unlabeled video  unlabeled driving videos  raw video streams  object distribution  object discovery  object tracks  object categories  large scale object mining  realistic automotive setting  feature representations  clustering strategies  Proposals  Data mining  Detectors  Automobiles  Feature extraction  Streaming media  Robots 
Abstract: This paper addresses the problem of object discovery from unlabeled driving videos captured in a realistic automotive setting. Identifying recurring object categories in such raw video streams is a very challenging problem. Not only do object candidates first have to be localized in the input images, but many interesting object categories occur relatively infrequently. Object discovery will therefore have to deal with the difficulties of operating in the long tail of the object distribution. We demonstrate the feasibility of performing fully automatic object discovery in such a setting by mining object tracks using a generic object tracker. In order to facilitate further research in objet discovery, we release a collection of more than 360,000 automatically mined object tracks from 10 + hours of video data (560,000 frames). We use this dataset to evaluate the suitability of different feature representations and clustering strategies for object discovery.

Title: Goal-oriented Object Importance Estimation in On-road Driving Videos
Key Words: driver information systems  feature extraction  object detection  road traffic  road vehicles  video signal processing  on-road driving videos  OIE  driving scene  visual model  object importance estimation  ego-vehicles driver  driving control  binary brake prediction  Vehicles  Feature extraction  Videos  Roads  Visualization  Task analysis  Vehicle dynamics 
Abstract: We formulate a new problem as Object Importance Estimation (OIE) in on-road driving videos, where the road users are considered as important objects if they have influence on the control decision of the ego-vehicle's driver. The importance of a road user depends on both its visual dynamics, e.g., appearance, motion and location, in the driving scene and the driving goal, e.g., the planned path, of the ego vehicle. We propose a novel framework that incorporates both visual model and goal representation to conduct OIE. To evaluate our framework, we collect an on-road driving dataset at traffic intersections in the real world and conduct human-labeled annotation of the important objects. Experimental results show that our goal-oriented method outperforms baselines and has much more improvement on the left-turn and right-turn scenarios. Furthermore, we explore the possibility of using object importance for driving control prediction and demonstrate that binary brake prediction can be improved with the information of object importance.

Title: Priming Deep Pedestrian Detection with Geometric Context
Key Words: computational geometry  feature extraction  learning (artificial intelligence)  neural nets  object detection  pedestrians  deep neural networks  deep object detectors  geometric context  deep pedestrian detection  DNN detectors  DNN feature learning  Cameras  Detectors  Proposals  Three-dimensional displays  Two dimensional displays  Geometry  Context modeling 
Abstract: We investigate the role of geometric context in deep neural networks to establish better pedestrian detectors that are more robust to occlusions. Notwithstanding their demonstrated successes, deep object detectors under-perform in crowded scenes with high intra-category occlusions. One brute-force solution is to collect a large number of labeled training samples under occlusion, but the combinatorial increase in the labeling effort makes it an unaffordable solution. We argue that a promising and complementary direction to solve this problem is to bring geometric context to modulate feature learning in a DNN. We identify that an effective way to leverage geometric context is to induce it in two steps - through early fusion, by guiding region proposal generation to focus on occluded regions, and through late fusion, by penalizing misalignments of bounding boxes in both 2D and 3D. Our experiments on multiple state-of-the-art DNN detectors and detection benchmarks clearly demonstrates that our proposed method outperforms strong baselines by an average of 5%.

Title: The Robust Canadian Traveler Problem Applied to Robot Routing
Key Words: graph theory  mobile robots  stochastic processes  telecommunication network routing  worst-case cost  Robust Canadian Traveler Problem applied  stochastic Canadian Traveler Problem  CTP  robot route selection  traversal policy  policy cost  evaluation criteria  approximate algorithm  traversal cost  robot field trials  RCTP framework  sub-optimal policy alternatives  minimum expected cost  distance 5.0 km  Approximation algorithms  Robot sensing systems  Visualization  Search problems  Heuristic algorithms  Uncertainty 
Abstract: The stochastic Canadian Traveler Problem (CTP), which finds application in robot route selection under uncertainty, aims to find the traversal policy with the minimum expected cost. This paper extends the CTP to what we call the Robust Canadian Traveler Problem (RCTP), in which the variability of the policy cost is also part of the evaluation criteria. An optimal (offline) algorithm and an approximate (online) algorithm are then proposed to compute the policy that has a good balance of both mean and variation of the traversal cost. The benefit of the proposed framework versus traditional approaches is shown by doing simulations in randomly generated worlds as well as on a map of 5 km of paths built from robot field trials. Specifically, the RCTP framework is able to search for sub-optimal policy alternatives with significantly lower worst-case cost and less computational time compared to the optimal policy, but with little sacrifice on the expected cost.

Title: Improved A-search guided tree construction for kinodynamic planning
Key Words: collision avoidance  mobile robots  robot dynamics  robot kinematics  search problems  trees (mathematics)  A-search guided tree  node selection  heuristic cost  computation efficiency  improved AGT  i-AGT  node expansion  prioritizing control actions  prioritizing nodes  bi-directional AGT  BAGT  kinodynamic planning  second tree encodes obstacles information  Robots  Path planning  Aerospace electronics  Complexity theory  Probabilistic logic  Lattices  Planning 
Abstract: With node selection being directed by a heuristic cost [1]-[3], A-search guided tree (AGT) is constructed on-the-fly and enables fast kinodynamic planning. This work presents two variants of AGT to improve computation efficiency. An improved AGT (i-AGT) biases node expansion through prioritizing control actions, an analogy of prioritizing nodes. Focusing on node selection, a bi-directional AGT (BAGT) introduces a second tree originated from the goal in order to offer a better heuristic cost of the first tree. Effectiveness of BAGT pivots on the fact that the second tree encodes obstacles information near the goal. Case study demonstrates that i-AGT consistently reduces the complexity of the tree and improves computation efficiency; and BAGT works largely but not always, particularly with no benefit observed for simple cases.

Title: Balancing Global Exploration and Local-connectivity Exploitation with Rapidly-exploring Random disjointed-Trees
Key Words: Markov processes  path planning  robots  sampling methods  search problems  trees (mathematics)  local-connectivity exploitation  sampling efficiency  sampling-based planners  incremental optimal multiquery planner  RRdT  Markov Chain random sampling  active balancing  sampling-based motion planners  incremental planners  rapidly-exploring random disjointed-trees  Convergence  Space exploration  Probabilistic logic  Planning  Path planning  Proposals  Markov processes 
Abstract: Sampling efficiency in a highly constrained environment has long been a major challenge for sampling-based planners. In this work, we propose Rapidly-exploring Random disjointed-Trees* (RRdT*), an incremental optimal multi-query planner. RRdT* uses multiple disjointed-trees to exploit local-connectivity of spaces via Markov Chain random sampling, which utilises neighbourhood information derived from previous successful and failed samples. To balance local exploitation, RRdT* actively explore unseen global spaces when local-connectivity exploitation is unsuccessful. The active trade-off between local exploitation and global exploration is formulated as a multi-armed bandit problem. We argue that the active balancing of global exploration and local exploitation is the key to improving sample efficient in sampling-based motion planners. We provide rigorous proofs of completeness and optimal convergence for this novel approach. Furthermore, we demonstrate experimentally the effectiveness of RRdT*'s locally exploring trees in granting improved visibility for planning. Consequently, RRdT* outperforms existing state-of-the-art incremental planners, especially in highly constrained environments.

Title: Locomotion Planning through a Hybrid Bayesian Trajectory Optimization
Key Words: Bayes methods  computational complexity  Gaussian processes  humanoid robots  learning (artificial intelligence)  legged locomotion  motion control  nonlinear programming  optimal control  path planning  locomotion planning  legged systems  suitable contact schedules  contact sequence  hybrid dynamical system  achievable motions  optimal control problem  computational complexity  motion optimization  plans contacts  contact schedule selection  high-level task descriptors  motion planning nonlinear program  single-legged hopping  task appropriate contact schedules  hybrid Bayesian trajectory optimization  Bayesian optimization  Gaussian process model  bilevel optimization  Optimization  Schedules  Trajectory  Kernel  Task analysis  Robots 
Abstract: Locomotion planning for legged systems requires reasoning about suitable contact schedules. The contact sequence and timings constitute a hybrid dynamical system and prescribe a subset of achievable motions. State-of-the-art approaches cast motion planning as an optimal control problem. In order to decrease computational complexity, one common strategy separates footstep planning from motion optimization and plans contacts using heuristics. In this paper, we propose to learn contact schedule selection from high-level task descriptors using Bayesian Optimization. A bi-level optimization is defined in which a Gaussian Process model predicts the performance of trajectories generated by a motion planning nonlinear program. The agent, therefore, retains the ability to reason about suitable contact schedules, while explicit computation of the corresponding gradients is avoided. We delineate the algorithm in its general form and provide results for planning single-legged hopping. Our method is capable of learning contact schedule transitions that align with human intuition. It performs competitively against a heuristic baseline in predicting task appropriate contact schedules.

Title: Dynamic Channel: A Planning Framework for Crowd Navigation
Key Words: collision avoidance  graph theory  mobile robots  navigation  pedestrians  search problems  crowd navigation  real-time navigation  robotics  imminent collision avoidance  path planning problem  graph-searching  triangulation space  obstacle dynamics  public pedestrian datasets  dynamic obstacle avoidance  dynamic channels  motion planners  pedestrian dynamics  mobile robot applications  Robots  Collision avoidance  Navigation  Planning  Heuristic algorithms  Trajectory  Logic gates 
Abstract: Real-time navigation in dense human environments is a challenging problem in robotics. Most existing path planners fail to account for the dynamics of pedestrians because introducing time as an additional dimension in search space is computationally prohibitive. Alternatively, most local motion planners only address imminent collision avoidance and fail to offer long-term optimality. In this work, we present an approach, called Dynamic Channels, to solve this global to local quandary. Our method combines the high-level topological path planning with low-level motion planning into a complete pipeline. By formulating the path planning problem as graph-searching in the triangulation space, our planner is able to explicitly reason about the obstacle dynamics and capture the environmental change efficiently. We evaluate efficiency and performance of our approach on public pedestrian datasets and compare it to a state-of-the-art planning algorithm for dynamic obstacle avoidance. Completeness proofs are provided in the supplement at http://caochao.me/files/proof.pdf. An extended version of the paper is available on arXiv.

Title: Composition of Local Potential Functions with Reflection
Key Words: collision avoidance  mobile robots  navigation  local potential functions  reflections  collision capable robot platforms  reflection surfaces  reflection capable omnidirectional robot  cell decompositions  navigation  global convergence  Omnipuck  Robots  Collision avoidance  Convergence  Planning  Navigation  Trajectory  Pins 
Abstract: This paper suggests reflections can be practically useful if they are included in planning for collision capable robot platforms. By modifying a proven strategy for navigation with reflections we maintain global convergence results and reach the goal in less time. An algorithm for identifying reflection surfaces for a given cell decomposition is reported. Baseline and reflected scenarios are compared for two different cell decompositions. Omnipuck, a reflection capable omnidirectional robot meant to store and release impact energy, is used to obtain experimental results and draw conclusions for future work.

Title: Analyzing Electromagnetic Actuator based on Force Analysis
Key Words: electric field effects  electromagnetic actuators  embossing  hot working  impact (mechanical)  magnetic field effects  impact hot embossing  force analysis  magnetic field  system equation  electromagnetic actuator  electrical field  mechanical system  Simulink analysis  Mathematical model  Actuators  Magnetic flux  Force  Magnetic forces  Magnetic circuits  Embossing  Hot Embossing  electromagnetic actuator  linear actuator  system modeling  equivalent magnetic circuit 
Abstract: By modeling the system with the mechanical, electrical, and magnetic field, we can derive the system equation for the actuator modeling. As it is not easy to conclude the output signal from the equations, we used Simulink to simulate and check the performance aspect of the system. After that, we did several experiments to verify whether experimental force meets with the needed condition for impact hot embossing and matches with simulation force. We tried to adjust the parameters of the system to match the force of experiment result and that of the simulation result. From the comparison, we can consider the analysis of the actuator as precise. A successful study can contribute to the better application of new type hot embossing techniques and better understanding and usage of the electromagnetic actuator when it is applied to another technology and research.

Title: A Novel Robotic System for Finishing of Freeform Surfaces
Key Words: closed loop systems  end effectors  fixtures  force sensors  industrial manipulators  industrial robots  mobile robots  optical scanners  surface finishing  freeform surfaces  consistent surface quality  robotic surface finishing system  finishing tool  proximity laser sensor  surface finishing process  surface profile mesh  robot closed-loop control system  robot base coordinates  surface finishing experiments  wooden surfaces  surface finish  robotic system  perception system  Robot sensing systems  Robot kinematics  Surface impedance  Surface treatment  Surface emitting lasers  End effectors 
Abstract: Surface finishing of freeform surfaces is predominately a manual operation that requires a considerable amount of operator skill; automation of this process has many benefits, including consistent surface quality, preventing hazardous exposure to particulate, etc. A novel robotic surface finishing system, consisting of a robot and an end-effector that includes a force sensor, finishing tool, and proximity laser sensor, is developed in this paper to automate the surface finishing process. The laser sensor is treated as an additional link, and based on it a novel perception system is developed for real-time scanning of the surface that provides the surface profile mesh and the corresponding normal vectors which can be used directly by the robot closed-loop control system for pose tracking. A unique feature of the perception system is that the geometry of the surface profile and normal vectors are all obtained in real-time in the robot base coordinate system, thus eliminating issues such as precise registration of the work piece in the fixture and its location with respect to the robot base coordinates. An impedance-type closed-loop control algorithm is developed for pose tracking. The proposed system and control algorithm are employed to conduct surface finishing experiments on wooden surfaces. A representative sample of the results and measurement images of surface finish are provided to illustrate the capabilities of the robotic surface finishing system. A video of the system in operation is also provided.

Title: Context-Dependent Compensation Scheme to Reduce Trajectory Execution Errors for Industrial Manipulators
Key Words: compensation  end effectors  industrial manipulators  mobile robots  motion control  position control  execution error  end-effector loads  general purpose automated compensation scheme  trajectory errors  learned compensation scheme  context-dependent compensation scheme  automatically generated trajectories  robot model  actuator errors  low production volume applications  reduced trajectory execution errors  Trajectory  Service robots  End effectors  Trajectory tracking  Error correction 
Abstract: Currently, automatically generated trajectories cannot be directly used on tasks that require high execution accuracies due to errors accused by inaccuracies in the robot model, actuator errors, and controller limitations. These trajectories often need manual refinement. This is not economically viable on low production volume applications. Unfortunately, execution errors are dependent on the nature of the trajectory and end-effector loads, and therefore devising a general purpose automated compensation scheme for reducing trajectory errors is not possible. This paper presents a method for analyzing the given trajectory, executing an exploratory physical run for a small portion of the given trajectory, and learning a compensation scheme based on the measured data. The learned compensation scheme is context-dependent and can be used to reduce the execution error. We have demonstrated the feasibility of this approach by conducting physical experiments.

Title: Identifying Feasible Workpiece Placement with Respect to Redundant Manipulator for Complex Manufacturing Tasks
Key Words: end effectors  industrial manipulators  machine tools  nonlinear programming  redundant manipulators  redundant manipulator  complex manufacturing task  robot workspace  task surfaces  nonlinear optimization problem  complex workpieces  feasible workpiece placement  end-effector  constraint violation functions  Task analysis  Robot kinematics  End effectors  Tools  Indexes 
Abstract: Successfully completing a complex manufacturing task requires finding a feasible placement of the workpiece in the robot workspace. The workpiece placement should be such that the task surfaces on the workpiece are reachable by the robot, the robot can apply the required forces, and the end-effector/tool can move with the desired velocity. This paper formulates the problem of identifying a feasible placement as a non-linear optimization problem over the constraint violation functions. This is a computationally challenging problem. We show that this problem can be solved by successively searching for the solution by incrementally applying different constraints. We demonstrate the feasibility of our approach using several complex workpieces.

Title: Geometric Search-Based Inverse Kinematics of 7-DoF Redundant Manipulator with Multiple Joint Offsets
Key Words: end effectors  geometry  iterative methods  Jacobian matrices  manipulator kinematics  position control  redundant manipulators  geometric search-based inverse kinematics  geometric method  inverse kinematics problems  inverse position kinematics  manipulator Jacobian  IK algorithm  elbow joints  geometry-based IK solvers  redundant Baxter robot  End effectors  Kinematics  Shoulder  Wrist  Elbow 
Abstract: We propose a geometric method to solve inverse kinematics (IK) problems of 7-DoF manipulators with joint offsets at shoulder, elbow, and wrist. Traditionally, inverse position kinematics for redundant manipulators are solved by using an iterative method based on the pseudo-inverse of the manipulator Jacobian. This provides a single solution among the infinitely many possible solutions for the IK problem of redundant manipulators. There are no closed-form IK solutions for redundant manipulators with multiple joint offsets. Using our method we can compute multiple IK solutions using two-parameter search by exploiting geometry of the structure of a redundant manipulator. Our proposed IK algorithm can handle multiple joint offsets and is mathematically simple to implement in a few lines of code. We apply our algorithm to compute IK solutions for 7-DoF redundant Baxter robot (that has joint offsets at shoulder, wrist, and elbow joints) for end-effector configurations where existing geometry-based IK solvers fail to find solutions. We also demonstrate the use of our algorithm in an application where we want to compute an IK solution (among the infinitely many possible solutions) that has minimum error bound in end-effector position, in the presence of random joint actuation and sensing uncertainties.

Title: Design and Formal Verification of a Safe Stop Supervisor for an Automated Vehicle*
Key Words: Global Positioning System  mobile robots  remotely operated vehicles  road safety  road vehicles  model-based approach  model checking  demonstration vehicle  formal verification  safe stop supervisor  automated vehicle  autonomous vehicles  pertinent planning  control algorithms  mode switch  nominal planners  safe fallback routine  safe position  nominal operational conditions  system failure  mode switching  safe stop trajectory planner  research concept vehicle  Trajectory  Planning  Automation  Global Positioning System  Software  Switches  Roads 
Abstract: Autonomous vehicles apply pertinent planning and control algorithms under different driving conditions. The mode switch between these algorithms should also be autonomous. On top of the nominal planners, a safe fallback routine is needed to stop the vehicle at a safe position if nominal operational conditions are violated, such as for a system failure. This paper describes the design and formal verification of a supervisor to manage all requirements for mode switching between nominal planners, and additional requirements for switching to a safe stop trajectory planner that acts as the fallback routine. The supervisor is designed via a model-based approach and its abstraction is formally verified by model checking. The supervisor is implemented and integrated with the Research Concept Vehicle, an experimental research and demonstration vehicle developed at the KTH Royal Institute of Technology. Simulations and experiments show that the vehicle is able to autonomously drive in a safe manner between two parking lots and can successfully come to a safe stop upon GPS sensor failure.

Title: Optimization-Based Terrain Analysis and Path Planning in Unstructured Environments
Key Words: data structures  graph theory  mobile robots  navigation  optimisation  path planning  position control  remotely operated vehicles  terrain mapping  trees (mathematics)  path planning  environment representation  terrain modeling  graph edge expansions  optimization-based terrain analysis  unmanned ground vehicle  hierarchical model  local terrain map  graph search algorithms  vertex positions  compact data structure  space-dividing tree  environment model  rough environments  real-time optimization-based approach  unstructured environments  autonomous ground vehicle navigation  Optimization  Path planning  Planning  Data structures  Collision avoidance  Navigation  Robots 
Abstract: Accurate environment representation is one of the key challenges in autonomous ground vehicle navigation in unstructured environments. We propose a real-time optimization-based approach to terrain modeling and path planning in off-road and rough environments. Our method uses an irregular, hierarchical, graph-like environment model. A space-dividing tree is used to define a compact data structure capturing vertex positions and establishing connectivity. The same unique underlying data structure is used for both terrain modeling and path planning without memory reallocation. Local plans are generated by graph search algorithms and are continuously regenerated for on-the-fly obstacle avoidance inside the scope of the local terrain map. We show that implementing a hierarchical model over a regular space division reduces graph edge expansions by up to 84%. We illustrate the applicability of the method through experiments with an unmanned ground vehicle in both structured and unstructured environments.

Title: Pedestrian Dominance Modeling for Socially-Aware Robot Navigation
Key Words: collision avoidance  human-robot interaction  mobile robots  socially-aware robot navigation  dominance characteristics  PDM models  perceived dominance levels  dominance-based collision-avoidance  pedestrian dominance model  robot navigation  autonomous vehicle navigation  Robots  Navigation  Trajectory  Psychology  Computational modeling  Prediction algorithms  Collision avoidance 
Abstract: We present a Pedestrian Dominance Model (PDM) to identify the dominance characteristics of pedestrians for robot navigation. Through a perception study on a simulated dataset of pedestrians, PDM models the perceived dominance levels of pedestrians with varying motion behaviors corresponding to trajectory, speed, and personal space. At runtime, we use PDM to identify the dominance levels of pedestrians to facilitate socially-aware navigation for the robots. PDM can predict dominance levels from trajectories with ~85% accuracy. Prior studies in psychology literature indicate that when interacting with humans, people are more comfortable around people that exhibit complementary movement behaviors. Our algorithm leverages this by enabling the robots to exhibit complementing responses to pedestrian dominance. We also present an application of PDM for generating dominance-based collision-avoidance behaviors in the navigation of autonomous vehicles among pedestrians. We demonstrate the benefits of our algorithm for robots navigating among tens of pedestrians in simulated environments.

Title: Dynamic Traffic Scene Classification with Space-Time Coherence
Key Words: feature extraction  image classification  image motion analysis  object detection  road safety  road traffic  road vehicles  traffic engineering computing  video signal processing  space-time variations  dynamic traffic scene classification  road scenes  space-time coherence  San Francisco Bay area  semantic context  feature extraction  tactical driver behavior understanding  driving behavior detection  vehicle ego-motion  time 80.0 hour  Roads  Meteorology  Vehicle dynamics  Semantics  Heuristic algorithms  Task analysis  Cameras 
Abstract: This paper examines the problem of dynamic traffic scene classification under space-time variations in viewpoint that arise from video captured on-board a moving vehicle. Solutions to this problem are important for realization of effective driving assistance technologies required to interpret or predict road user behavior. Currently, dynamic traffic scene classification has not been adequately addressed due to a lack of benchmark datasets that consider spatiotemporal evolution of traffic scenes resulting from a vehicle's ego-motion. This paper has three main contributions. First, an annotated dataset is released to enable dynamic scene classification that includes 80 hours of diverse high quality driving video data clips collected in the San Francisco Bay area. The dataset includes temporal annotations for road places, road types, weather, and road surface conditions. Second, we introduce novel and baseline algorithms that utilize semantic context and temporal nature of the dataset for dynamic classification of road scenes. Finally, we showcase algorithms and experimental results that highlight how extracted features from scene classification serve as strong priors and help with tactical driver behavior understanding. The results show significant improvement from previously reported driving behavior detection baselines in the literature.

Title: Towards the Design of Robotic Drivers for Full-Scale Self-Driving Racing Cars
Key Words: automobiles  control system synthesis  mobile robots  nonlinear control systems  path planning  predictive control  full-scale self-driving racing cars  autonomous vehicles  planning  control methods  autonomous racing cars  electric full scale autonomous racing car  control system architecture  localization methods  nonlinear model predictive control  pre-planned racing line  robotic driver design  Automobiles  Planning  Real-time systems  Computer architecture  Optimization  Vehicle dynamics 
Abstract: Autonomous vehicles are undergoing a rapid development thanks to advances in perception, planning and control methods and technologies achieved in the last two decades. Moreover, the lowering costs of sensors and computing platforms are attracting industrial entities, empowering the integration and development of innovative solutions for civilian use. Still, the development of autonomous racing cars has been confined mainly to laboratory studies and small to middle scale vehicles. This paper tackles the development of a planning and control framework for an electric full scale autonomous racing car, which is an absolute novelty in the literature, upon which we report our preliminary experiments and perspectives on future work. Our system leverages real time Nonlinear Model Predictive Control to track a pre-planned racing line. We describe the whole control system architecture including the mapping and localization methods employed.

Title: Model-free Online Motion Adaptation for Optimal Range and Endurance of Multicopters
Key Words: adaptive control  aerodynamics  autonomous aerial vehicles  helicopters  motion control  optimal control  path planning  position control  quadcopter  on-board power measurement  power consumption  energy-efficient loitering strategy  model-free online motion adaptation  extremum seeking control  aerodynamic disturbances  Power demand  Aerodynamics  Payloads  Propellers  Robots  Batteries  Adaptation models 
Abstract: In this work we introduce an approach that allows a quadcopter to find the velocity which maximizes its flight time (endurance) or flight distance (range) while moving along a given path, using on-board power measurement. The proposed strategy is based on Extremum Seeking control and (a) does not require any model of the power consumption of the system, (b) can be executed on-line, and (c) guarantees adaptation to unknown disturbances. We show experimentally that hovering is not the most energy-efficient loitering strategy, and we demonstrate the proposed method's ability to adapt to different aerodynamic disturbances, such as payloads. The method may be especially useful in applications where a quadcopter carries an unknown payload, allowing it to adapt for improved range.

Title: Multi-view Reconstruction of Wires using a Catenary Model
Key Words: autonomous aerial vehicles  cameras  extrapolation  image reconstruction  image segmentation  inspection  object detection  power cables  power engineering computing  robot vision  stereo image processing  multiview reconstruction  catenary model  UAV community  wire avoidance capabilities  powerline corridor inspection  multiview algorithm  catenary curve  partial wire detections  bundle-adjustment approaches  binarized wire segmentation images  approximate extrapolation  Wires  Image reconstruction  Three-dimensional displays  Cameras  Transforms  Computational modeling  Atmospheric modeling 
Abstract: Reliable detection and reconstruction of wires is one of the hardest problems in the UAV community, with a wide ranging impact in the industry in terms of wire avoidance capabilities and powerline corridor inspection. In this work, we introduce a real-time, model-based, multi-view algorithm to reconstruct wires from a set of images with known camera poses, while exploiting their natural shape - the catenary curve. Using a model-based approach helps us deal with partial wire detections in images, which may occur due to natural occlusion and false negatives. In addition, using a parsimonious model makes our algorithm efficient as we only need to optimize for 5 model parameters, as opposed to hundreds of 3D points in bundle-adjustment approaches. Our algorithm obviates the need for pixel correspondences by computing the reprojection error via the distance transform of binarized wire segmentation images. Further, we make our algorithm robust to arbitrary initializations by introducing an on-demand, approximate extrapolation of the distance transform based objective. We demonstrate the effectiveness of our algorithm against false negatives and random initializations in simulation, and show qualitative results with real data collected from a small UAV.

Title: Real-time Optimal Planning and Model Predictive Control of a Multi-rotor with a Suspended Load
Key Words: aerospace robotics  collision avoidance  convex programming  helicopters  mobile robots  nonlinear control systems  path planning  predictive control  high-dimensional nonlinear system  differential flatness property  nonconvex constraints  convex optimization problem  optimal trajectory  semifeasible trajectory  model predictive control  suspended load  control algorithms  multirotor dynamics  real-time trajectory generation  collision-free trajectories  collision-free trajectory  dynamic coupling  real-time optimal planning  concave obstacle-avoidance constraints  sequential linear quadratic solver  Trajectory  Real-time systems  Planning  Convex functions  Vehicle dynamics  Nonlinear dynamical systems  Load modeling 
Abstract: This paper presents planning and control algorithms for a multi-rotor with a suspended load. The suspended load cannot be controlled easily by the multi-rotor due to severe dynamic coupling between them. Difficulties are exacerbated by under-actuated, highly nonlinear nature of multi-rotor dynamics. Although many studies have been proposed to plan trajectories and control this system, there exist only a few reports on real-time trajectory generation. With this in mind, we propose a planning method which is capable of generating collision-free trajectories real-time and applicable to a high-dimensional nonlinear system. Using a differential flatness property, the system can be linearized entirely with elaborately chosen flat outputs. Convexification of non-convex constraints is carried out, and concave obstacle-avoidance constraints are converted to convex ones. After that, a convex optimization problem is solved to generate an optimal trajectory, but semi-feasible trajectory which considers only some parts of the initial state. We apply model predictive control with a sequential linear quadratic solver to compute a feasible collision-free trajectory and to control the system. Performance of the algorithm is validated by flight experiment.

Title: Bioinspired Direct Visual Estimation of Attitude Rates with Very Low Resolution Images using Deep Networks
Key Words: autonomous aerial vehicles  cameras  data visualisation  image resolution  image sensors  learning (artificial intelligence)  mobile robots  neural nets  robot vision  light source direction  artificial neural networks  deep networks  bioinspired visual system sensor  low resolution images  attitude rates  bioinspired direct visual estimation  source code  classical computer vision based method  learning approach  low resolution cameras  Drosophila's ocellar system  hardware setup  UAV  unmanned aerial vehicles  angular rates  Cameras  Robot sensing systems  Visualization  Estimation  Neural networks  Computer vision  Image resolution 
Abstract: In this work we present a bioinspired visual system sensor to estimate angular rates in unmanned aerial vehicles (UAV) using Neural Networks. We have conceived a hardware setup to emulate Drosophila's ocellar system, three simple eyes related to stabilization. This device is composed of three low resolution cameras with a similar spatial configuration as the ocelli. There have been previous approaches based on this ocellar system, most of them considering assumptions such as known light source direction or a punctual light source. In contrast, here we present a learning approach using Artificial Neural Networks in order to recover the system's angular rates indoors and outdoors without previous knowledge. A classical computer vision based method is also derived to be used as a benchmark for the learning approach. The method is validated with a large dataset of images (more than half a million samples) including synthetic and real data. The source code of the algorithms and the datasets used in this paper have been released in an open repository.

Title: Automatic Real-time Anomaly Detection for Autonomous Aerial Vehicles
Key Words: actuators  aerospace components  aerospace simulation  aircraft testing  autonomous aerial vehicles  fault diagnosis  fault tolerant control  least squares approximations  mobile robots  recursive least squares method  anomaly detection method  aircraft model  fault detection research  fixed-wing flights  ground truth  mid-flight actuator failures  fault detection open dataset  autonomous aircraft  correlated input-output pairs  autonomous aerial vehicles  Aircraft  Atmospheric modeling  Fault detection  Actuators  Reliability  Computational modeling  Safety 
Abstract: The recent increase in the use of aerial vehicles raises concerns about the safety and reliability of autonomous operations. There is a growing need for methods to monitor the status of these aircraft and report any faults and anomalies to the safety pilot or to the autopilot to deal with the emergency situation. In this paper, we present a real-time approach using the Recursive Least Squares method to detect anomalies in the behavior of an aircraft. The method models the relationship between correlated input-output pairs online and uses the model to detect the anomalies. The result is an easy-to-deploy anomaly detection method that does not assume a specific aircraft model and can detect many types of faults and anomalies in a wide range of autonomous aircraft. The experiments on this method show a precision of 88.23%, recall of 88.23% and 86.36% accuracy for over 22 flight tests. The other contribution is providing a new fault detection open dataset for autonomous aircraft, which contains complete data and the ground truth for 22 fixed-wing flights with eight different types of mid-flight actuator failures to help future fault detection research for aircraft.

Title: Learning ad-hoc Compact Representations from Salient Landmarks for Visual Place Recognition in Underwater Environments
Key Words: convolutional neural nets  feature extraction  image coding  image representation  mobile robots  object recognition  robot vision  SLAM (robots)  unsupervised learning  salient landmarks  visual place recognition  underwater environments  visual attention algorithm  hand-crafted local descriptors  ad hoc descriptor generator  convolutional autoencoder  ad-hoc compact representations  SeqSLAM  FAB-MAP  SURF method  Visualization  Feature extraction  Image color analysis  Training  Robots  Task analysis  Neural networks 
Abstract: In this paper, we propose an approach to learn compact representations from salient landmarks detected by a visual attention algorithm to recognize previously visited places in underwater environments. Instead of using hand-crafted local descriptors as it has been typically done in visual place recognition, we use a convolutional autoencoder to obtain an ad hoc descriptor generator from salient landmarks. The main advantage of using an autoencoder is that it can learn in an unsupervised manner directly from the salient landmarks. In addition, we show that it is possible to do the training with less than 100,000 examples instead of several hundreds of thousands or even millions of labeled examples as in other convolutional architectures. The trained convolutional autoencoder is used to obtain descriptors for salient landmarks that are later utilized in a voting scheme to calculate similarity between images with the objective of finding if a place has already been visited. The proposed method has obtained good results compared to SeqSLAM and FAB-MAP in different datasets obtained from robotic explorations of coral reefs in real life conditions. Moreover, when the visual attention algorithm is used, fewer features are required to get a good performance in terms of precision and recall compared when using the SURF method to extract visual features.

Title: Finding divers with SCUBANet
Key Words: autonomous underwater vehicles  convolutional neural nets  gesture recognition  human-robot interaction  learning (artificial intelligence)  mobile robots  robot vision  diver-diver communication  diver-robot communication  underwater detection dataset  standard diver gestures  diver recognition  diver body-head-hand localization  CNN-based approach  SCUBANet dataset  human-robot communication  diver component recognition  robot-diver communication  human operators  divers finding  RF signal attenuation  gesture visual recognition  per-instance bounding boxes  crowd sourcing  transfer learning  Web-based interface  Standards  Training  Object detection  Robot sensing systems  Computer vision  Human-robot interaction  computer vision  object detection  dataset  underwater  robotics 
Abstract: Robot-diver communication underwater is complicated by the attenuation of RF signals, the complexities of the environment in terms of deploying interaction devices, and issues related to the cognitive loading of human operators. Humans operating underwater have developed a simple yet effective strategy for diver-diver communication based on the visual recognition of gestures. Can a similar approach be effective for diver-robot communication? Here we present experiments with SCUBANet, an underwater detection dataset of body parts associated with diver-robot communication. Given the nature of standard diver gestures, here we concentrate on diver recognition and in particular on diver body-head-hand localization and examine the feasibility of using a CNN-based approach to address this problem. Such data-driven approaches typically require an appropriately annotated dataset. The SCUBANet dataset contains images of object classes commonly encountered during human-robot communication underwater. Object classes are labeled using per-instance bounding boxes. Annotations were created through crowd sourcing via a web-based interface to ease deployment. We provide baseline performance on diver and diver component recognition and localization using transfer learning on three widely available pre-trained models.

Title: Robotic Detection of Marine Litter Using Deep Visual Detection Models
Key Words: autonomous underwater vehicles  convolutional neural nets  learning (artificial intelligence)  marine engineering  marine pollution  mobile robots  neural net architecture  object detection  robotic detection  marine litter  deep visual detection models  trash deposits  aquatic environments  marine ecosystems  autonomous underwater vehicles  AUV  deep-learning algorithms  convolutional neural network architectures  object detection  trained networks  underwater trash removal  Plastics  Training  Oceans  Data models  Object detection  Visualization  Biological system modeling 
Abstract: Trash deposits in aquatic environments have a destructive effect on marine ecosystems and pose a long-term economic and environmental threat. Autonomous underwater vehicles (AUVs) could very well contribute to the solution of this problem by finding and eventually removing trash. This paper evaluates a number of deep-learning algorithms performing the task of visually detecting trash in realistic underwater environments, with the eventual goal of exploration, mapping, and extraction of such debris by using AUVs. A large and publicly-available dataset of actual debris in open-water locations is annotated for training a number of convolutional neural network architectures for object detection. The trained networks are then evaluated on a set of images from other portions of that dataset, providing insight into approaches for developing the detection capabilities of an AUV for underwater trash removal. In addition, the evaluation is performed on three different platforms of varying processing power, which serves to assess these algorithms' fitness for real-time applications.

Title: A Dual-Bladder Buoyancy Engine for a Cephalopod-Inspired AUV
Key Words: actuators  asymptotic stability  autonomous underwater vehicles  feedback  flow sensors  gears  Lyapunov methods  mobile robots  nonlinear control systems  pressure measurement  pressure sensors  pumps  remotely operated vehicles  robot dynamics  dual-bladder buoyancy engine  cephalopod-inspired AUV  nonlinear depth  backstepping depth  pitch controller  flow-rate feedback  custom flow sensor  differential pressure sensor  3D-printed attachment  depth control capability  single-bladder buoyancy engine  depth controller  autonomous underwater vehicle  Buoyancy  Engines  Bladder  Backstepping  Force  Vehicle dynamics  Pressure sensors 
Abstract: This paper presents a nonlinear, backstepping depth and pitch controller for a dual-bladder buoyancy engine actuated by gear pumps. Flow-rate feedback is obtained using a custom flow sensor comprised of a differential pressure sensor and a small, 3D-printed attachment. The controller is simulated using a model of the CephaloBot, our in-house developed autonomous underwater vehicle (AUV). Its depth control capability is also experimentally validated using a single-bladder buoyancy engine on-board a smaller-scale test cylinder. Lyapunov stability analysis shows global, asymptotic stability, which is exhibited in our simulation. Our experiments verify that this buoyancy engine is a feasible and effective depth controller for AUVs.

Title: Uncertainty-Aware Path Planning for Navigation on Road Networks Using Augmented MDPs
Key Words: decision theory  Markov processes  mobile robots  path planning  probability  state estimation  uncertainty-aware path planning  road networks  augmented MDPs  probabilistic algorithms  state estimation problems  robot  computationally expensive algorithms  uncertainty-augmented Markov Decision Process  planning approach  navigation policies  partially observable Markov decision process  navigation problems  Uncertainty  Roads  Planning  Navigation  Markov processes  Robot sensing systems 
Abstract: Although most robots use probabilistic algorithms to solve state estimation problems, path planning is often performed without considering the uncertainty about the robot's position. Uncertainty, however, matters in planning, but considering it often leads to computationally expensive algorithms. In this paper, we investigate the problem of path planning considering the uncertainty in the robot's belief about the world, in its perceptions and in its action execution. We propose the use of an uncertainty-augmented Markov Decision Process to approximate the underlying Partially Observable Markov Decision Process, and we employ a localization prior to estimate how the belief about the robot's position propagates through the environment. This yields to a planning approach that generates navigation policies able to make decisions according to the degree of uncertainty while being computationally tractable. We implemented our approach and thoroughly evaluated it on different navigation problems. Our experiments suggest that we are able to compute policies that are more effective than approaches that ignore the uncertainty, and that also outperform policies that always take the safest actions.

Title: Real-time Model Based Path Planning for Wheeled Vehicles
Key Words: electric vehicles  image colour analysis  image sensors  mobile robots  path planning  pose estimation  road safety  road vehicles  robot vision  search problems  wheels  model based traversability analysis method  complex environments  vehicles 3D pose  chassis collision  elevation map  reactive planning  safe paths  wheeled mobile robots  real world environment setups  real-time model  real-time path planning  simulated world environment setups  wheeled vehicles  vehicle model  scoring function  A*-like search strategy  RGB-D sensor  frequency 30.0 Hz  Wheels  Path planning  Robot sensing systems  Planning  Mobile robots  Real-time systems 
Abstract: This work presents a model based traversability analysis method which employs a detailed vehicle model to perform real-time path planning in complex environments. The vehicle model represents the vehicle's wheels and chassis, allowing it to accurately predict the vehicles 3D pose, detailed contact information for each wheel and the occurrence of a chassis collision given a 2D pose on an elevation map. These predictions are weighted, depending on the safety requirements of the vehicle, to provide a scoring function for an A*-like search strategy. The proposed method is designed to run at frame rates of 30Hz on data from a RGB-D sensor to provide reactive planning of safe paths. For evaluation, two wheeled mobile robots in different simulated and real world environment setups were tested to show the reliability and performance of the proposed method.

Title: Integrity Risk-Based Model Predictive Control for Mobile Robots
Key Words: mobile robots  path planning  predictive control  risk management  localization sensors  mission-critical situations  local nearest neighbor integrity risk evaluation methodology  data association faults  localization safety  control-input constraints  mobile robots  navigation integrity risk  integrity risk-based model predictive control  MPC  Feature extraction  Safety  Technological innovation  Predictive models  Mobile robots  Navigation 
Abstract: This paper presents a Model Predictive Controller (MPC) that uses navigation integrity risk as a constraint. Navigation integrity risk accounts for the presence of faults in localization sensors and algorithms, an increasingly important consideration as the number of robots operating in life and mission-critical situations is expected to increase dramatically in near future (e.g. a potential influx of self-driving cars). Specifically, the work uses a local nearest neighbor integrity risk evaluation methodology that accounts for data association faults as a constraint in order to guarantee localization safety over a receding horizon. Moreover, state and control-input constraints have also been enforced in this work. The proposed MPC design is tested using real-world mapped environments, showing that a robot is capable of maintaining a predefined minimum level of localization safety while operating in an urban environment.

Title: What lies in the shadows? Safe and computation-aware motion planning for autonomous vehicles using intent-aware dynamic shadow regions
Key Words: inference mechanisms  mobile robots  path planning  road safety  road vehicles  sensor fusion  autonomous driving safety  inference planning  passive safety  sensor observations  intent-aware dynamic shadow regions  computation-aware motion planning  driving behaviour  autonomous vehicle  Robot sensing systems  Planning  Safety  Automobiles  Autonomous vehicles  Trajectory 
Abstract: One of the challenges of developing autonomous vehicles is planning in an inhabited environment under sensing uncertainty as well as limited perception and computational resources. Besides reasoning about the behaviour of traffic participants that are within the vehicles' field of view, safe autonomous driving also requires the vehicle to reason about possible traffic participants that might exist beyond its sensing horizon, and to adapt its driving behaviour accordingly. This paper describes an inference and motion planning pipeline that is able to guarantee passive safety (collisions are possible, but the autonomous vehicle will be at rest) with respect to hypothetical hidden agents that have not been observed yet. We also incorporate the vehicle's reaction time due to sensing and computational delays into the planning process; for example, we show how having a fast reaction time due to the availability of more computational resources leads to more aggressive trajectories, while a car with a larger reaction time will choose more relaxed trajectories that require less attention.

Title: Dynamic Risk Density for Autonomous Navigation in Cluttered Environments without Object Detection
Key Words: collision avoidance  handicapped aids  object detection  path planning  wheelchairs  dynamic risk density  congestion density  cost function  occupancy risk  velocity fields  object-based congestion cost  cluttered environments  autonomous navigation  object detection  object tracking  autonomous wheelchair  Navigation  Cost function  Wheelchairs  Dynamics  Vehicle dynamics  Planning  Level set 
Abstract: In this paper, we examine the problem of navigating cluttered environments without explicit object detection and tracking. We introduce the dynamic risk density to map the congestion density and spatial flow of the environment to a cost function for the agent to determine risk when navigating that environment. We build upon our prior work, wherein the agent maps the density and motion of objects to an occupancy risk, then navigate the environment over a specified risk level set. Here, the agent does not need to identify objects to compute the occupancy risk, and instead computes this cost function using the occupancy density and velocity fields around them. Simulations show how this dynamic risk density encodes movement information for the ego agent and closely models the object-based congestion cost. We implement our dynamic risk density on an autonomous wheelchair and show how it can be used for navigating unstructured, crowded and cluttered environments.

Title: Deep Local Trajectory Replanning and Control for Robot Navigation
Key Words: collision avoidance  control engineering computing  learning (artificial intelligence)  mobile robots  motion control  navigation  velocity control  robot navigation  hierarchical planning  machine learning  optimal paths  deep local trajectory planner  velocity controller  motion commands  attention mechanisms  nearby pedestrians  map global plan information  sensor data  velocity commands  hand-designed traditional navigation system  deep local trajectory replanning  global planner  Navigation  Robot kinematics  Trajectory  Planning  Robot sensing systems  Laser radar 
Abstract: We present a navigation system that combines ideas from hierarchical planning and machine learning. The system uses a traditional global planner to compute optimal paths towards a goal, and a deep local trajectory planner and velocity controller to compute motion commands. The latter components of the system adjust the behavior of the robot through attention mechanisms such that it moves towards the goal, avoids obstacles, and respects the space of nearby pedestrians. Both the structure of the proposed deep models and the use of attention mechanisms make the system's execution interpretable. Our simulation experiments suggest that the proposed architecture outperforms baselines that try to map global plan information and sensor data directly to velocity commands. In comparison to a hand-designed traditional navigation system, the proposed approach showed more consistent performance.

Title: Learning from Transferable Mechanics Models: Generalizable Online Mode Detection in Underactuated Dexterous Manipulation
Key Words: control engineering computing  dexterous manipulators  grippers  Jacobian matrices  manipulator dynamics  manipulator kinematics  random forests  supervised learning  transferable mechanics models  generalizable online mode detection  underactuated dexterous manipulation  mechanics-inspired framework  fingertip-based planar within-hand manipulation  underactuated robotic gripper  hand-object system  grasp matrix  manipulability metrics  planar manipulation modes  supervised learning model  contact curvatures  prediction transferability  visual approach  gripper models  finger Jacobians  random forests classifier  Grippers  Transmission line matrix methods  Feature extraction  Jacobian matrices  Kinematics  Robot sensing systems 
Abstract: In this work, we investigate a mechanics-inspired framework for describing fingertip-based planar within-hand manipulation with an underactuated robotic gripper. In particular, this framework leverages fundamental mechanics properties of the hand-object system, including basic terms such as local contact curvature as well as more complex features including the grasp matrix and manipulability metrics. These are extracted using a simple visual approach and then in real-time used for predicting planar manipulation modes: namely rolling, dropped, stuck, and sliding. Given a desired cartesian motion for the object, a supervised learning model predicts these four manipulation modes before they occur, allowing us to either avoid or trigger these different behaviors. Since we utilize strictly fundamental properties of the grasp matrix, finger Jacobians, and contact curvatures, we are able to demonstrate prediction transferability between different grippers using our original classifier. In particular, a Random Forests classifier trained on one gripper successfully predicts manipulation modes for grippers with different fingers with 84% accuracy, compared to just 56% from an approach in previous work. Overall, we find that the features designed in our approach better describes fingertip manipulation when precise gripper models are not available.

Title: CARA system Architecture - A Click and Assemble Robotic Assembly System
Key Words: CAD  product design  robotic assembly  tolerance analysis  implemented architecture capabilities  CARA system architecture  click and assemble robotic assembly system  industrial product  tolerances  CAD  end to end robotic assembly premise  Robotic assembly  Robot sensing systems  Task analysis  Planning  Solid modeling 
Abstract: Future robotic assembly systems will allow product designers to upload their assembled product models remotely such that they can be assembled autonomously. In this work we present the architecture for a Click and Assemble Robotic Assembly (CARA) system. This architecture takes an assembly file uploaded by the user through a web interface as the only input. It then performs all the necessary planning before executing the assembly. To the authors' knowledge, this is the first time that all of the required components from previous advances in robotic assembly have been brought together, with all interconnecting challenges solved, into a complete working system for physical, real world assembly tasks. To demonstrate the implemented architecture capabilities, a real industrial product with tight tolerances was assembled from its CAD file only, illustrating the end to end robotic assembly premise in a real world setting.

Title: Tool Macgyvering: Tool Construction Using Geometric Reasoning
Key Words: hand tools  manipulators  tool construction  geometric reasoning  tool Macgyvering problem  substitution problems  7-DOF robot arm  Tools  Robots  Task analysis  Fasteners  Pipelines  Cognition  Complexity theory 
Abstract: MacGyvering is defined as creating or repairing something in an inventive or improvised way by utilizing objects that are available at hand. In this paper, we explore a subset of Macgyvering problems involving tool construction, i.e., creating tools from parts available in the environment. We formalize the overall problem domain of tool Macgyvering, introducing three levels of complexity for tool construction and substitution problems, and presenting a novel computational framework aimed at solving one level of the tool Macgyvering problem, specifically contributing a novel algorithm for tool construction based on geometric reasoning. We validate our approach by constructing three tools using a 7-DOF robot arm.

Title: A Framework for Robot Manipulation: Skill Formalism, Meta Learning and Adaptive Control
Key Words: adaptive control  learning systems  manipulators  adaptive control  adaptive impedance control  meta parameter learning  compatible skill specifications  abstract expert knowledge  quality evaluation metrics  adaptive impedance controller  carefully defined skill formalism  manipulation tasks  learned tasks  learning-based solution  learning force-sensitive robot manipulation skills  submillimeter industrial tolerances  time 20.0 min  Robots  Impedance  Task analysis  Trajectory  Reinforcement learning  Complexity theory  Visualization 
Abstract: In this paper we introduce a novel framework for expressing and learning force-sensitive robot manipulation skills. It is based on a formalism that extends our previous work on adaptive impedance control with meta parameter learning and compatible skill specifications. This way the system is also able to make use of abstract expert knowledge by incorporating process descriptions and quality evaluation metrics. We evaluate various state-of-the-art schemes for meta parameter learning and experimentally compare selected ones. Our results clearly indicate that the combination of our adaptive impedance controller with a carefully defined skill formalism significantly reduces the complexity of manipulation tasks even for learning peg-in-hole with submillimeter industrial tolerances. Overall, the considered system is able to learn variations of this skill in under 20 minutes. In fact, experimentally the system was able to perform the learned tasks without visual feedback faster than humans, leading to the first learning-based solution of complex assembly at such real-world performance.

Title: Open-Loop Collective Assembly Using a Light Field to Power and Control a Phototaxic Mini-Robot Swarm
Key Words: artificial life  computational geometry  mobile robots  multi-robot systems  open loop systems  path planning  open-loop collective assembly  collective construction  dynamic light field design strategies  assembled shapes  mobile robots  polygonal shapes  phototaxic minirobot swarm  nonconvex polygons  global light field  Robot kinematics  Shape  Robot sensing systems  Mobile robots  Task analysis  Collision avoidance 
Abstract: We propose a novel scheme that jointly addresses the problems of powering and coordinating a population of mini-robots for collective construction. In our setting, a population of simple mobile robots must push blocks into desired polygonal shapes. Each robot performs only simple phototaxis. Coordination is purely open-loop: a global light field guides and powers the robots. We demonstrate this concept in simulation and explore a series of dynamic light field design strategies that robustly result in assembled shapes including nonconvex polygons.

Title: A Variational Observation Model of 3D Object for Probabilistic Semantic SLAM
Key Words: Bayes methods  cameras  feature extraction  image colour analysis  inference mechanisms  object detection  pose estimation  probability  SLAM (robots)  variational techniques  probabilistic observation model  Bayesian inference  viewpoint-independent loop closure  variational observation model  Bayesian object observation model  3D object detection  probabilistic semantic SLAM  single view projection  RGB monocamera  object-oriented feature extraction  3D mapping  volumetric 3D object shape information  variational likelihood estimation  pose estimation  feature estimation  loop detector  Shape  Simultaneous localization and mapping  Three-dimensional displays  Object oriented modeling  Solid modeling  Semantics 
Abstract: We present a Bayesian object observation model for complete probabilistic semantic SLAM. Recent studies on object detection and feature extraction have become important for scene understanding and 3D mapping. However, 3D shape of the object is too complex to formulate the probabilistic observation model; therefore, performing the Bayesian inference of the object-oriented features as well as their pose is less considered. Besides, when the robot equipped with an RGB mono camera only observes the projected single view of an object, a significant amount of the 3D shape information is abandoned. Due to these limitations, semantic SLAM and viewpoint-independent loop closure using volumetric 3D object shape is challenging. In order to enable the complete formulation of probabilistic semantic SLAM, we approximate the observation model of a 3D object with a tractable distribution. We also estimate the variational likelihood from the 2D image of the object to exploit its observed single view. In order to evaluate the proposed method, we perform pose and feature estimation, and demonstrate that the automatic loop closure works seamlessly without additional loop detector in various environments.

Title: Learning Action Representations for Self-supervised Visual Exploration
Key Words: cameras  image representation  learning (artificial intelligence)  learning action  self-supervised visual exploration  on-board camera  initial state  self-supervised prediction network  intrinsic rewards  current state-action pair  higher dimensional representations  representational power  transition network  sparse extrinsic rewards  camera view  input actions  action representation module  Training  Navigation  Task analysis  Visualization  Robots  Predictive models  Cameras 
Abstract: Learning to efficiently navigate an environment using only an on-board camera is a difficult task for an agent when the final goal is far from the initial state and extrinsic rewards are sparse. To address this problem, we present a self-supervised prediction network to train the agent with intrinsic rewards that relate to achieving the desired final goal. The network learns to predict its future camera view (the future state) from a current state-action pair through an Action Representation Module that decodes input actions as higher dimensional representations. To increase the representational power of the network during exploration we fuse the responses from the Action Representation Module in the transition network, which predicts the future state. Moreover, to enhance the discrimination capability between predictions from different input actions we introduce joint regression and triplet ranking loss functions. We show that, despite the sparse extrinsic rewards, by learning action representations we achieve a faster training convergence than state-of-the-art methods with only a small increase in the number of the model parameters.

Title: Plug-and-Play: Improve Depth Prediction via Sparse Data Propagation
Key Words: image colour analysis  image segmentation  learning (artificial intelligence)  optical radar  PnP module updates  intermediate feature map  sparse data propagation  RGB image  sparse LiDAR points  plug-and-play module  sparse depths  pretrained depth prediction model  dense depth map  Estimation  Training  Laser radar  Image reconstruction  Predictive models  Robot sensing systems 
Abstract: We propose a novel plug-and-play (PnP) module for improving depth prediction with taking arbitrary patterns of sparse depths as input. Given any pre-trained depth prediction model, our PnP module updates the intermediate feature map such that the model outputs new depths consistent with the given sparse depths. Our method requires no additional training and can be applied to practical applications such as leveraging both RGB and sparse LiDAR points to robustly estimate dense depth map. Our approach achieves consistent improvements on various state-of-the-art methods on indoor (i.e., NYU-v2) and outdoor (i.e., KITTI) datasets. Various types of LiDARs are also synthesized in our experiments to verify the general applicability of our PnP module in practice.

Title: DFNet: Semantic Segmentation on Panoramic Images with Dynamic Loss Weights and Residual Fusion Block
Key Words: feature extraction  image fusion  image segmentation  neural nets  object detection  roads  traffic engineering computing  visual perception  sight images  DFNet  dynamic loss weights  fusion layer  boundary information loss  semantic segmentation  automatic parking  lane markings  parking slots  pavement information  pixel multiplication  PSV dataset  residual fusion block  RFB  Image segmentation  Semantics  Feature extraction  Deep learning  Convolution  Training  Vehicle dynamics 
Abstract: For the domain of self-driving and automatic parking, perception is a basic and critical technique, moreover, the detection of lane markings and parking slots is an important part of visual perception. Compared with front sight images, panoramic images(PI) can capture more comprehensive pavement information. However, the imbalance of different classes in PI is even more serious. Additionally, the judgment of boundary information between areas is a hard problem in deep models. Therefore, we propose a new model named DFNet to solve these problems. The proposed model has two main contributions, one is dynamic loss weights, and the other is residual fusion block(RFB). DFNet use dynamic loss weights to overcome the negative effect of imbalance dataset, which are calculated according to the pixel number of each class in a batch. RFB is composed of several convolutional layers, a pooling layer, and a fusion layer to combine the feature maps by pixel multiplication, which can reduce boundary information loss. We evaluate our method on PSV dataset, and the achieved advanced results demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed model.

Title: Anytime Stereo Image Depth Estimation on Mobile Devices
Key Words: learning (artificial intelligence)  mobile computing  stereo image processing  end-to-end learned approach  inference time  mobile devices  stereo depth estimation  memory-constrained devices  disparity prediction  disparity maps  computational constraints  stereo image depth estimation  NVIDIA Jetson TX2 module  AnyNet  Estimation  Image resolution  Feature extraction  Computational modeling  Three-dimensional displays  Cameras  Predictive models 
Abstract: Many applications of stereo depth estimation in robotics require the generation of accurate disparity maps in real time under significant computational constraints. Current state-of-the-art algorithms force a choice between either generating accurate mappings at a slow pace, or quickly generating inaccurate ones, and additionally these methods typically require far too many parameters to be usable on power- or memory-constrained devices. Motivated by these shortcomings, we propose a novel approach for disparity prediction in the anytime setting. In contrast to prior work, our end-to-end learned approach can trade off computation and accuracy at inference time. Depth estimation is performed in stages, during which the model can be queried at any time to output its current best estimate. Our final model can process 1242×375 resolution images within a range of 10-35 FPS on an NVIDIA Jetson TX2 module with only marginal increases in error - using two orders of magnitude fewer parameters than the most competitive baseline. The source code is available at https://github.com/mileyan/AnyNet.

Title: Improved Generalization of Heading Direction Estimation for Aerial Filming Using Semi-Supervised Regression
Key Words: autonomous aerial vehicles  cinematography  image sequences  regression analysis  robot vision  unsupervised learning  video signal processing  improved generalization  semisupervised regression  visual input  data distributions  semisupervised algorithm  generalization ability  autonomous aerial filming  heading direction estimation problem  temporal continuity  unsupervised signal  testing performance  unlabeled sequences  performance improvement  labeled loss  unlabeled loss  moving actor filming  Task analysis  Drones  Training  Estimation  Data models  Cameras  Feature extraction 
Abstract: In the task of Autonomous aerial filming of a moving actor (e.g. a person or a vehicle), it is crucial to have a good heading direction estimation for the actor from the visual input. However, the models obtained in other similar tasks, such as pedestrian collision risk analysis and human-robot interaction, are very difficult to generalize to the aerial filming task, because of the difference in data distributions. Towards improving generalization with less amount of labeled data, this paper presents a semi-supervised algorithm for heading direction estimation problem. We utilize temporal continuity as the unsupervised signal to regularize the model and achieve better generalization ability. This semi-supervised algorithm is applied to both training and testing phases, which increases the testing performance by a large margin. We show that by leveraging unlabeled sequences, the amount of labeled data required can be significantly reduced. We also discuss several important details on improving the performance by balancing labeled and unlabeled loss, and making good combinations. Experimental results show that our approach robustly outputs the heading direction for different types of actor. The aesthetic value of the video is also improved in the aerial filming task.

Title: Graduated Fidelity Lattices for Motion Planning under Uncertainty
Key Words: mobile robots  path planning  probability  robot shape  motion models  graduated fidelity lattices  motion planning  state lattice based approach  mobile robotics  motion uncertainty  multiresolution heuristic  collision probability  Uncertainty  Planning  Robots  Lattices  Collision avoidance  Shape  Probability density function 
Abstract: In this work we present a state lattice based approach for motion planning in mobile robotics. Sensing and motion uncertainty are managed at planning time to obtain safe and optimal paths. To do this reliably, our approach estimates the probability of collision taking into account the robot shape and the uncertainty in heading. We also introduce a novel graduated fidelity approach and a multi-resolution heuristic which adapt to the obstacles in the map, improving the planning efficiency while maintaining its performance. Results for different environments, shapes and motion models are reported, including experiments with real robots.

Title: Non-Parametric Informed Exploration for Sampling-Based Motion Planning
Key Words: collision avoidance  path planning  sampling methods  search problems  effective sampling method  good initial solution  nonparametric exploration technique  nonparametric informed exploration  sampling-based motion planning  search space  Kernel  Planning  Heuristic algorithms  Sampling methods  Convergence  Search problems  Benchmark testing 
Abstract: Efficient exploration of the search space is crucial for faster convergence in sampling-based motion planning. An effective sampling method must first concentrate on quickly finding a good initial solution and then focus the search on regions that can potentially improve the current best solution. In this paper, we propose a non-parametric exploration technique that addresses these challenges. The proposed algorithm prioritizes search by utilizing heuristics. After an initial solution is found, the method generates samples in the “$L_{2} -$informed set”, while leveraging collision data to reduce the number of samples in the obstacle space. We demonstrate the efficiency of the proposed approach with several benchmarking experiments.

Title: Simulated Annealing-optimized Trajectory Planning within Non-Collision Nominal Intervals for Highway Autonomous Driving
Key Words: acceleration control  collision avoidance  mobile robots  predictive control  road traffic control  simulated annealing  time-varying systems  trajectory control  sigmoid trajectory  collision-free intervals  nominal conditions  velocity-space representation  highway autonomous driving  near-optimal trajectory generation  autonomous vehicles  highways  predictive reference trajectory  free evolution space  pre-calculated set  candidate trajectories  decoupling path  velocity optimizations  multicriteria functions  decision evaluation function  trajectory generator  simulated annealing approach  noncollision nominal intervals  simulated annealing-optimized trajectory planning  Trajectory  Roads  Acceleration  Vehicle dynamics  Autonomous vehicles  Decision making 
Abstract: This article considers the problem of near-optimal trajectory generation for autonomous vehicles on highways. The goal is to select a predictive reference trajectory in the free evolution space, while avoiding both generating a pre-calculated set of candidate trajectories and decoupling path and velocity optimizations. Moreover, this trajectory aims at optimizing a decision process based on multi-criteria functions, which are not straightforward to design and can have a blackbox formulation. The main idea of this article is to use the decision evaluation function in the trajectory generator with a Simulated Annealing (SA) approach. The parameters of a sigmoid trajectory are optimized within Non-Collision Nominal Intervals (NCNI), which are defined as collision-free intervals under nominal conditions using a velocity-space representation.

Title: On the Impact of Uncertainty for Path Planning
Key Words: graph theory  learning (artificial intelligence)  mobile robots  navigation  path planning  probability  travelling salesman problems  path planning  planning paths  uncertain edge  learned classifier  mobile robots  partially-known environments  simulation campaign  real-world maps  planning strategy  traversability estimates  Canadian traveller problem  Robot sensing systems  Navigation  Uncertainty  Path planning  Estimation  Optimized production technology 
Abstract: We consider the problem of planning paths on graphs with some edges whose traversability is uncertain; for each uncertain edge, we are given a probability of being traversable (e.g., by a learned classifier). We categorize different interpretations of the problem that are meaningful for mobile robots navigating partially-known environments, each of which yields a different formalization; we then focus on the case in which the true traversability of an edge is revealed only when the agent visits one of its endpoints (Canadian Traveller Problem). In this context, we design a large simulation campaign on synthetic and real-world maps to study the impact of two different factors: the planning strategy, and the amount of uncertainty (which could depend on the quality of the classifier producing traversability estimates).

Title: Localization with Sliding Window Factor Graphs on Third-Party Maps for Automated Driving
Key Words: optimisation  particle filtering (numerical methods)  pose estimation  position measurement  window factor graphs  third-party maps  robotic applications  window optimization  odometry measurements  fast vehicle localization  accurate vehicle localization  estimation problem  sliding window formulation  factor graph  landmark detections  automated car  automated driving applications  Microsoft Windows  Optimization  Simultaneous localization and mapping  Global navigation satellite system  Laser radar  Measurement uncertainty 
Abstract: Localizing a vehicle in a map is essential for automated driving and various other robotic applications. This paper addresses the problem of vehicle localization in urban environments. Our approach performs a graph-based sliding window optimization over a set of recent landmark and odometry measurements for fast and accurate vehicle localization on third-party maps. Our work incorporates landmark priors from third-party maps into the estimation problem and shows how to exploit the sliding window formulation for revising data associations. We describe how to construct our factor graph and derive its necessary factors to model the information from the map as a prior over the landmark detections. We implemented our approach on an automated car and thoroughly tested it on real-world data. The experiments suggest that the approach provides highly accurate pose estimates, is fast enough for automated driving applications, and outperforms localization using particle filters.

Title: Night-to-Day Image Translation for Retrieval-based Localization
Key Words: approximation theory  image retrieval  learning (artificial intelligence)  neural nets  object detection  pose estimation  robot vision  SLAM (robots)  visual databases  geo-tagged images  night-to-day image translation  retrieval-based localization  visual localization  robotics pipelines  image retrieval techniques  database image retrieval  neural models  pose estimation  visual query photo  ToDayGAN  Task analysis  Visualization  Cameras  Feature extraction  Training  Generators  Data models 
Abstract: Visual localization is a key step in many robotics pipelines, allowing the robot to (approximately) determine its position and orientation in the world. An efficient and scalable approach to visual localization is to use image retrieval techniques. These approaches identify the image most similar to a query photo in a database of geo-tagged images and approximate the query's pose via the pose of the retrieved database image. However, image retrieval across drastically different illumination conditions, e.g. day and night, is still a problem with unsatisfactory results, even in this age of powerful neural models. This is due to a lack of a suitably diverse dataset with true correspondences to perform end-to-end learning. A recent class of neural models allows for realistic translation of images among visual domains with relatively little training data and, most importantly, without ground-truth pairings.In this paper, we explore the task of accurately localizing images captured from two traversals of the same area in both day and night. We propose ToDayGAN - a modified image-translation model to alter nighttime driving images to a more useful daytime representation. We then compare the daytime and translated night images to obtain a pose estimate for the night image using the known 6-DOF position of the closest day image. Our approach improves localization performance by over 250% compared the current state-of-the-art, in the context of standard metrics in multiple categories.

Title: Accurate and Efficient Self-Localization on Roads using Basic Geometric Primitives
Key Words: automobiles  distance measurement  graph theory  path planning  pose estimation  position control  road traffic control  localization update rate  roads  basic geometric primitives  behavior generation  distinctive signature  map elements  localization framework  next generation series cars  association measurement  odometry measurement  robust pose graph optimization  time 30.0 min  size 10.0 cm  frequency 50.0 Hz  Roads  Automobiles  Frequency modulation  Detectors  Global navigation satellite system  Feature extraction  Optimization 
Abstract: Highly accurate localization with very limited amount of memory and computational power is one of the big challenges for next generation series cars. We propose localization based on geometric primitives which are compact in representation and further valuable for other tasks like planning and behavior generation. The primitives lack distinctive signature which makes association between detections and map elements highly ambiguous. We resolve ambiguities early in the pipeline by online building up a local map which is key to runtime efficiency. Further, we introduce a new framework to fuse association and odometry measurements based on robust pose graph optimization.We evaluate our localization framework on over 30 min of data recorded in urban scenarios. Our map is memory efficient with less than 8 kB/km and we achieve high localization accuracy with a mean position error of less than 10 cm and a mean yaw angle error of less than 0. 25° at a localization update rate of 50Hz.

Title: Efficient 2D-3D Matching for Multi-Camera Visual Localization
Key Words: cameras  distance measurement  feature extraction  image matching  motion estimation  pose estimation  autonomous driving  multicamera visual inertial localization algorithm  prioritized feature matching scheme  multicamera systems  monocular cameras  prioritization function  multicamera setup  matching efforts  pose priors  localization system  motion estimates  multicamera visual inertial odometry pipeline  large scale environments  pose estimation stages  pre-built global 3D map  Cameras  Three-dimensional displays  Pose estimation  Visualization  Feature extraction  Pipelines  Reliability 
Abstract: Visual localization, i.e., determining the position and orientation of a vehicle with respect to a map, is a key problem in autonomous driving. We present a multi-camera visual inertial localization algorithm for large scale environments. To efficiently and effectively match features against a pre-built global 3D map, we propose a prioritized feature matching scheme for multi-camera systems. In contrast to existing works, designed for monocular cameras, we (1) tailor the prioritization function to the multi-camera setup and (2) run feature matching and pose estimation in parallel. This significantly accelerates the matching and pose estimation stages and allows us to dynamically adapt the matching efforts based on the surrounding environment. In addition, we show how pose priors can be integrated into the localization system to increase efficiency and robustness. Finally, we extend our algorithm by fusing the absolute pose estimates with motion estimates from a multi-camera visual inertial odometry pipeline (VIO). This results in a system that provides reliable and drift-less pose estimation. Extensive experiments show that our localization runs fast and robust under varying conditions, and that our extended algorithm enables reliable real-time pose estimation.

Title: Localizing Discriminative Visual Landmarks for Place Recognition
Key Words: computer vision  convolutional neural nets  feature extraction  image representation  object recognition  visual place recognition  perceptual changes  robust image representations  environmental changes  viewpoint changes  convolutional neural networks  landmark localization network  appearance changes  vegetations  buildings  similarity measurement  CNN  feature extraction  discriminative visual landmark localization  Visualization  Feature extraction  Training  Image recognition  Buildings  Task analysis  Measurement 
Abstract: We address the problem of visual place recognition with perceptual changes. The fundamental problem of visual place recognition is generating robust image representations which are not only insensitive to environmental changes but also distinguishable to different places. Taking advantage of the feature extraction ability of Convolutional Neural Networks (CNNs), we further investigate how to localize discriminative visual landmarks that positively contribute to the similarity measurement, such as buildings and vegetations. In particular, a Landmark Localization Network (LLN) is designed to indicate which regions of an image are used for discrimination. Detailed experiments are conducted on open source datasets with varied appearance and viewpoint changes. The proposed approach achieves superior performance against state-of-the-art methods.

Title: Beyond Point Clouds: Fisher Information Field for Active Visual Localization
Key Words: mobile robots  path planning  robot vision  point clouds  Fisher information field  active visual localization  mobile robots  perception requirement  planning stage  localization information  perception-aware planning  3D landmarks  sensor visibility  Three-dimensional displays  Planning  Visualization  Cameras  Simultaneous localization and mapping 
Abstract: For mobile robots to localize robustly, actively considering the perception requirement at the planning stage is essential. In this paper, we propose a novel representation for active visual localization. By formulating the Fisher information and sensor visibility carefully, we are able to summarize the localization information into a discrete grid, namely the Fisher information field. The information for arbitrary poses can then be computed from the field in constant time, without the need of costly iterating all the 3D landmarks. Experimental results on simulated and real-world data show the great potential of our method in efficient active localization and perception-aware planning. To benefit related research, we release our implementation of the information field to the public.

Title: Deep Reinforcement Learning of Navigation in a Complex and Crowded Environment with a Limited Field of View
Key Words: cameras  learning (artificial intelligence)  mobile robots  navigation  neural nets  optical radar  path planning  robot vision  deep reinforcement learning-based methods  DRL agents  LSTM agent  Local-Map Critic  LSTM-LMC  wide FOV  single depth camera  mobile robots  lidar devices  DRL method  depth cameras  dynamics randomization technique  Navigation  Mobile robots  Reinforcement learning  Laser radar  Robot sensing systems  Cameras 
Abstract: Mobile robots are required to navigate freely in a complex and crowded environment in order to provide services to humans. For this navigation ability, deep reinforcement learning (DRL)-based methods are gaining increasing attentions. However, existing DRL methods require a wide field of view (FOV), which imposes the usage of high-cost lidar devices. In this paper, we explore the possibility of replacing expensive lidar devices with affordable depth cameras which have a limited FOV. First, we analyze the effect of a limited field of view in the DRL agents. Second, we propose a LSTM agent with Local-Map Critic (LSTM-LMC), which is a novel DRL method to learn efficient navigation in a complex environment with a limited FOV. Lastly, we introduce the dynamics randomization technique to improve the robustness of the DRL agents in the real world. We found that our method with a limited FOV can outperform the methods having a wide FOV but limited memory. We provide the empirical evidence that our method learns to implicitly model the surrounding environment and dynamics of other agents. We also show that a robot with a single depth camera can navigate through a complex real-world environment using our method.

Title: Sim-to-Real Transfer Learning using Robustified Controllers in Robotic Tasks involving Complex Dynamics
Key Words: learning (artificial intelligence)  robot dynamics  robust control  robustified controller  robotic tasks  complex dynamics  robot tasks  deep reinforcement learning  simulated environment  learned task  fine-tuning  simulation parameters  nontrivial task  nonrobustified controller  sim-to-real transfer learning  robustified controllers  Task analysis  Robots  Physics  Games  Reinforcement learning  Training  Computational modeling 
Abstract: Learning robot tasks or controllers using deep reinforcement learning has been proven effective in simulations. Learning in simulation has several advantages. For example, one can fully control the simulated environment, including halting motions while performing computations. Another advantage when robots are involved, is that the amount of time a robot is occupied learning a task-rather than being productive-can be reduced by transferring the learned task to the real robot. Transfer learning requires some amount of fine-tuning on the real robot. For tasks which involve complex (non-linear) dynamics, the fine-tuning itself may take a substantial amount of time. In order to reduce the amount of fine-tuning we propose to learn robustified controllers in simulation. Robustified controllers are learned by exploiting the ability to change simulation parameters (both appearance and dynamics) for successive training episodes. An additional benefit for this approach is that it alleviates the precise determination of physics parameters for the simulator, which is a non-trivial task. We demonstrate our proposed approach on a real setup in which a robot aims to solve a maze game, which involves complex dynamics due to static friction and potentially large accelerations. We show that the amount of fine-tuning in transfer learning for a robustified controller is substantially reduced compared to a non-robustified controller.

Title: Generalization through Simulation: Integrating Simulated and Real Data into Deep Reinforcement Learning for Vision-Based Autonomous Flight
Key Words: aircraft control  autonomous aerial vehicles  collision avoidance  data analysis  helicopters  learning (artificial intelligence)  mobile robots  robot vision  vision-based autonomous flight  fragile scale quadrotors  small-scale quadrotors  complex physics  air currents  hybrid deep reinforcement learning algorithm  generalizable perception system  nanoaerial vehicle collision avoidance task  real data  simulated data  Data models  Robots  Task analysis  Predictive models  Neural networks  Reinforcement learning  Collision avoidance 
Abstract: Deep reinforcement learning provides a promising approach for vision-based control of real-world robots. However, the generalization of such models depends critically on the quantity and variety of data available for training. This data can be difficult to obtain for some types of robotic systems, such as fragile, small-scale quadrotors. Simulated rendering and physics can provide for much larger datasets, but such data is inherently of lower quality: many of the phenomena that make the real-world autonomous flight problem challenging, such as complex physics and air currents, are modeled poorly or not at all, and the systematic differences between simulation and the real world are typically impossible to eliminate. In this work, we investigate how data from both simulation and the real world can be combined in a hybrid deep reinforcement learning algorithm. Our method uses real-world data to learn about the dynamics of the system, and simulated data to learn a generalizable perception system that can enable the robot to avoid collisions using only a monocular camera. We demonstrate our approach on a real-world nano aerial vehicle collision avoidance task, showing that with only an hour of real-world data, the quadrotor can avoid collisions in new environments with various lighting conditions and geometry. Code, instructions for building the aerial vehicles, and videos of the experiments can be found at github.com/gkahn13/GtS.

Title: Crowd-Robot Interaction: Crowd-Aware Robot Navigation With Attention-Based Deep Reinforcement Learning
Key Words: human-robot interaction  learning (artificial intelligence)  mobile robots  neural nets  pedestrians  crowded spaces  Human-Human interactions  deep reinforcement learning framework  dense crowds  human dynamics  crowd-aware robot navigation  attention-based deep reinforcement learning  robot operations  crowd-robot interaction  Robots  Navigation  Reinforcement learning  Planning  Task analysis  Human-robot interaction  Biological system modeling 
Abstract: Mobility in an effective and socially-compliant manner is an essential yet challenging task for robots operating in crowded spaces. Recent works have shown the power of deep reinforcement learning techniques to learn socially cooperative policies. However, their cooperation ability deteriorates as the crowd grows since they typically relax the problem as a one-way Human-Robot interaction problem. In this work, we want to go beyond first-order Human-Robot interaction and more explicitly model Crowd-Robot Interaction (CRI). We propose to (i) rethink pairwise interactions with a self-attention mechanism, and (ii) jointly model Human-Robot as well as Human-Human interactions in the deep reinforcement learning framework. Our model captures the Human-Human interactions occurring in dense crowds that indirectly affects the robot's anticipation capability. Our proposed attentive pooling mechanism learns the collective importance of neighboring humans with respect to their future states. Various experiments demonstrate that our model can anticipate human dynamics and navigate in crowds with time efficiency, outperforming state-of-the-art methods.

Title: Residual Reinforcement Learning for Robot Control
Key Words: continuous systems  control system synthesis  feedback  friction  industrial robots  learning (artificial intelligence)  learning systems  mechanical contact  motion control  robot dynamics  first-order physical modeling  brittle controllers  inaccurate controllers  reinforcement learning methods  continuous robot controllers  control signals  robot control problems  modern manufacturing  control design  feedback control methods  control policy  residual reinforcement learning  rigid body equations of motion  contacts  friction  robot learning  unstable objects  block assembly task  Robots  Task analysis  Feedback control  Reinforcement learning  Mathematical model  Manufacturing  Adaptive control 
Abstract: Conventional feedback control methods can solve various types of robot control problems very efficiently by capturing the structure with explicit models, such as rigid body equations of motion. However, many control problems in modern manufacturing deal with contacts and friction, which are difficult to capture with first-order physical modeling. Hence, applying control design methodologies to these kinds of problems often results in brittle and inaccurate controllers, which have to be manually tuned for deployment. Reinforcement learning (RL) methods have been demonstrated to be capable of learning continuous robot controllers from interactions with the environment, even for problems that include friction and contacts. In this paper, we study how we can solve difficult control problems in the real world by decomposing them into a part that is solved efficiently by conventional feedback control methods, and the residual which is solved with RL. The final control policy is a superposition of both control signals. We demonstrate our approach by training an agent to successfully perform a real-world block assembly task involving contacts and unstable objects.

Title: A Reinforcement Learning Approach for Control of a Nature-Inspired Aerial Vehicle
Key Words: autonomous aerial vehicles  function approximation  gradient methods  learning (artificial intelligence)  neural nets  position control  three-term control  nature-inspired aerial vehicle  position controller  UAV  fixed-wing aircraft  neural network function approximators  reinforcement learning agent  learned controller  deep deterministic policy gradients  PID controller  Ape-X distributed prioritized experience replay  multi-rotors  underactuated nature-inspired unmanned aerial vehicle  body contrary  Training  Aerodynamics  Neural networks  Mathematical model  Reinforcement learning  Drag  Prototypes 
Abstract: In this work, reinforcement learning is used to develop a position controller for an underactuated nature-inspired Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV). This particular configuration of UAVs achieves lift by spinning its entire body contrary to standard multi-rotors or fixed-wing aircraft. Deep Deterministic Policy Gradients (DDPG) with Ape-X Distributed Prioritized Experience Replay was used to train neural network function approximators that were implemented as the final control policy. The reinforcement learning agent was trained in simulations and directly ported over to real-life hardware. Position control tests were performed on the learned control policy and compared to a baseline PID controller. The learned controller was found to exhibit better control over the inherent oscillations that arise from the non-linear dynamics of the platform.

Title: Formal Policy Learning from Demonstrations for Reachability Properties
Key Words: closed loop systems  feedback  learning (artificial intelligence)  predictive control  reachability analysis  formal behavioral specifications  counterexample-guided iterative loop  receding horizon model-predictive controllers  demonstrator actions  formally-verified policies  formal policy learning from demonstrations  reachability properties  structured closed-loop policies  MPC  cost-to-go function  Robots  Trajectory  Training data  Predictive models  Real-time systems  Measurement 
Abstract: We consider the problem of learning structured, closed-loop policies (feedback laws) from demonstrations in order to control under-actuated robotic systems, so that formal behavioral specifications such as reaching a target set of states are satisfied. Our approach uses a “counterexample-guided” iterative loop that involves the interaction between a policy learner, a demonstrator and a verifier. The learner is responsible for querying the demonstrator in order to obtain the training data to guide the construction of a policy candidate. This candidate is analyzed by the verifier and either accepted as correct, or rejected with a counterexample. In the latter case, the counterexample is used to update the training data and further refine the policy.The approach is instantiated using receding horizon model-predictive controllers (MPCs) as demonstrators. Rather than using regression to fit a policy to the demonstrator actions, we extend the MPC formulation with the gradient of the cost-to-go function evaluated at sample states in order to constrain the set of policies compatible with the behavior of the demonstrator. We demonstrate the successful application of the resulting policy learning schemes on two case studies and we show how simple, formally-verified policies can be inferred starting from a complex and unverified nonlinear MPC implementations. As a further benefit, the policies are many orders of magnitude faster to implement when compared to the original MPCs.

Title: Formalized Task Characterization for Human-Robot Autonomy Allocation
Key Words: design of experiments  human-robot interaction  multi-robot systems  Taguchi methods  task characterization  human-robot autonomy allocation  human-robot teams  conjoint analysis  rotational features  translational features  autonomy assistance  robotic arm  kinematic features  Task analysis  Kinematics  Complexity theory  Manipulators  Feature extraction  Service robots 
Abstract: Humans and robots team together to perform tasks in various domains. Some tasks are easier to perform than others, but little work focuses on discovering the underlying mechanisms that affect perceived difficulty and task performance. To fill this gap, we propose a formalized approach to task characterization for human-robot teams using Taguchi design of experiments and conjoint analysis. With this, we conduct a 20 person study where participants operate a 6 degree of freedom robotic arm to perform manipulations defined by 6 kinematic features. We find that rotational features of a task contribute significantly more to decreased performance and increased difficulty than translational features. The participants also perform the activities with autonomy assistance. The data shows a reduction in the effect of these features on performance and difficulty when assistance is active. Furthermore, we examine when to trigger assistance based on thresholds set from outlier detection. The analysis indicates that rotational features and features leading to kinematic singularities are useful for triggering assistance.

Title: DoS-Resilient Multi-Robot Temporal Logic Motion Planning
Key Words: convex programming  mobile robots  multi-robot systems  path planning  robot dynamics  robust control  temporal logic  DoS-resilient multirobot temporal logic motion planning  multirobot motion  linear temporal logic specifications  denial-of-service attacks  robot trajectories  DoS attacks  DoS-free workspace  DoS-resilient mission constraints  robot dynamics  DoS-resilient plans  satisfiability modulo convex programming  Base stations  Planning  Trajectory  Robot kinematics  Jamming  Radar 
Abstract: We propose an efficient multi-robot motion planning algorithm for missions captured by linear temporal logic (LTL) specifications, in the presence of bounded disturbances and denial-of-service (DoS) attacks against the communication between robots and base stations. Given an LTL formula Ψ, our goal is to construct robot trajectories, and associated control strategies, to satisfy Ψ and continuously establish communication paths between robots and base stations despite the DoS attacks and the disturbances on the robot states. Our approach combines and extends results from robust control and efficient motion planning via satisfiability modulo convex programming (SMC). We first compute a feedback controller that rejects the disturbance together with a perturbation of the DoS-free workspace that accounts for the worst-case disturbance scenario. On the perturbed workspace, we formulate the planning problem as a feasibility problem over Boolean and convex constraints, respectively capturing the DoS-resilient mission constraints and the constraints on the nominal, disturbance-free, robot dynamics. Numerical results show the effectiveness of our algorithm in providing DoS-resilient plans that are robust to disturbances and support the execution of complex missions.

Title: Task-Based Design of Ad-hoc Modular Manipulators
Key Words: control system synthesis  genetic algorithms  manipulators  demand robots  modular robots  task description  degree-of-freedom modules  task-based design  ad-hoc modular manipulators  genetic algorithm  Task analysis  Manipulators  Trajectory  Actuators  Genetic algorithms  Kinematics 
Abstract: The great promise of modular robots is the ability to create on demand robots; however, choosing the “right” design based on a task is still a challenging problem. In this paper, we present an approach to automatically synthesize both the design and control for modular robots from a task description. In particular, we focus on manipulators composed of one degree-of-freedom (DoF) modules. Our approach is able to handle partially infeasible tasks by either identifying the infeasible part and finding a design that satisfies the feasible part or searching for multiple designs that together satisfy the entire task. We compare our approach to a baseline genetic algorithm in a series of increasingly complex environments.

Title: SweepNet: Wide-baseline Omnidirectional Depth Estimation
Key Words: calibration  cameras  image reconstruction  image sensors  lenses  neural nets  object recognition  robot vision  stereo image processing  multiple sets  rectified images  dense omnidirectional depth map  rig global coordinate system  warped images  final depth map  aggregated cost volume  deep neural network  conventional depth estimation methods  highly accurate depth maps  wide-baseline omnidirectional depth estimation  omnidirectional depth sensing  conventional stereo systems  blind regions  novel wide-baseline omnidirectional stereo algorithm  dense depth estimate  fisheye images  deep convolutional neural network  capture system  multiple cameras  wide-baseline rig  ultra-wide field  view lenses  calibration algorithm  Cameras  Lenses  Calibration  Neural networks  Three-dimensional displays  Robot vision systems 
Abstract: Omnidirectional depth sensing has its advantage over the conventional stereo systems since it enables us to recognize the objects of interest in all directions without any blind regions. In this paper, we propose a novel wide-baseline omnidirectional stereo algorithm which computes the dense depth estimate from the fisheye images using a deep convolutional neural network. The capture system consists of multiple cameras mounted on a wide-baseline rig with ultra-wide field of view (FOV) lenses, and we present the calibration algorithm for the extrinsic parameters based on the bundle adjustment. Instead of estimating depth maps from multiple sets of rectified images and stitching them, our approach directly generates one dense omnidirectional depth map with full 360° coverage at the rig global coordinate system. To this end, the proposed neural network is designed to output the cost volume from the warped images in the sphere sweeping method, and the final depth map is estimated by taking the minimum cost indices of the aggregated cost volume by SGM. For training the deep neural network and testing the entire system, realistic synthetic urban datasets are rendered using Blender. The experiments using the synthetic and real-world datasets show that our algorithm outperforms the conventional depth estimation methods and generate highly accurate depth maps.

Title: 3D Surface Reconstruction Using A Two-Step Stereo Matching Method Assisted with Five Projected Patterns
Key Words: correlation methods  image matching  image reconstruction  image resolution  robot vision  solid modelling  stereo image processing  surface reconstruction  three-dimensional vision  3D surface reconstruction scheme  stereo matching pattern projection  stereo images  phase maps  phase-shifting patterns  image acquisition time  correspondence refinement algorithm  high-resolution reconstruction  object reconstruction  two-step stereo matching method  Three-dimensional displays  Image reconstruction  Surface reconstruction  Cameras  Robots  Pattern matching  Robustness 
Abstract: Three-dimensional vision plays an important role in robotics. In this paper, we present a 3D surface reconstruction scheme based on combination of stereo matching and pattern projection. A two-step matching scheme is proposed to establish reliable correspondence between stereo images with high computation efficiency and accuracy. The first step (coarse matching) can quickly find the correlation candidates, and the second step (precise matching) is responsible for determining the most precise correspondence within the candidates. Two phase maps serve as codewords and are utilized in the two-step stereo matching, respectively. The phase maps are derived from phase-shifting patterns to provide robustness to the background noises. Only five patterns are required, which reduces the image acquisition time. Moreover, the precision is further enhanced by applying a correspondence refinement algorithm. The precision and accuracy are validated by experiments on standard objects. Furthermore, various experiments are conducted to verify the capability of the proposed method, which includes the complex object reconstruction, the high-resolution reconstruction, and the occlusion avoidance. The real-time experimental results are also provided.

Title: Real-Time Dense Mapping for Self-Driving Vehicles using Fisheye Cameras
Key Words: cameras  image capture  image fusion  image resolution  image sensors  mobile robots  object detection  robot vision  stereo image processing  visual perception  fisheye cameras  real-time dense geometric mapping algorithm  pinhole cameras  visual-inertial odometry  visual localization  vision-only 3D scene perception  depth map  reference camera  plane-sweeping stereo  fast object detection framework  YOLOv3  fisheye depth images  computer vision applications  angular resolution  image resolutions  in-vehicle PC  truncated signed distance function  TSDF volume  3D map  self-driving vehicles  Cameras  Three-dimensional displays  Real-time systems  Image resolution  Vehicle dynamics  Estimation  Object detection 
Abstract: We present a real-time dense geometric mapping algorithm for large-scale environments. Unlike existing methods which use pinhole cameras, our implementation is based on fisheye cameras whose large field of view benefits various computer vision applications for self-driving vehicles such as visual-inertial odometry, visual localization, and object detection. Our algorithm runs on in-vehicle PCs at approximately 15 Hz, enabling vision-only 3D scene perception for self-driving vehicles. For each synchronized set of images captured by multiple cameras, we first compute a depth map for a reference camera using plane-sweeping stereo. To maintain both accuracy and efficiency, while accounting for the fact that fisheye images have a lower angular resolution, we recover the depths using multiple image resolutions. We adopt the fast object detection framework, YOLOv3, to remove potentially dynamic objects. At the end of the pipeline, we fuse the fisheye depth images into the truncated signed distance function (TSDF) volume to obtain a 3D map. We evaluate our method on large-scale urban datasets, and results show that our method works well in complex dynamic environments.

Title: Tightly-Coupled Aided Inertial Navigation with Point and Plane Features
Key Words: feature extraction  image fusion  image sensors  inertial navigation  mobile robots  Monte Carlo methods  object tracking  SLAM (robots)  planar point features  nonplanar point features  point-on-plane constraints  effective plane feature initialization algorithm  depth sensor  general sensor fusion framework  point feature tracking  plane extraction  geometrical structures  closest point  plane parameterization  Monte-Carlo simulations  visual sensor  tightly-coupled aided inertial navigation system  feature-based simultaneous localization and mapping  Feature extraction  Cameras  Calibration  Laser radar  Jacobian matrices  Simultaneous localization and mapping  Estimation 
Abstract: This paper presents a tightly-coupled aided inertial navigation system (INS) with point and plane features, a general sensor fusion framework applicable to any visual and depth sensor (e.g., RGBD, LiDAR) configuration, in which the camera is used for point feature tracking and depth sensor for plane extraction. The proposed system exploits geometrical structures (planes) of the environments and adopts the closest point (CP) for plane parameterization. Moreover, we distinguish planar point features from non-planar point features in order to enforce point-on-plane constraints which are used in our state estimator, thus further exploiting structural information from the environment. We also introduce a simple but effective plane feature initialization algorithm for feature-based simultaneous localization and mapping (SLAM). In addition, we perform online spatial calibration between the IMU and the depth sensor as it is difficult to obtain this critical calibration parameter in high precision. Both Monte-Carlo simulations and real-world experiments are performed to validate the proposed approach.

Title: FastDepth: Fast Monocular Depth Estimation on Embedded Systems
Key Words: autonomous aerial vehicles  cameras  computational complexity  embedded systems  estimation theory  image colour analysis  image segmentation  image sensors  learning (artificial intelligence)  microrobots  mobile robots  neural nets  object detection  robot vision  low-latency decoder  NYU Depth v2 dataset  real-time monocular depth estimation  deep neural network  embedded platform  microaerial vehicle  embedded systems  robotic tasks  obstacle detection  single RGB image  monocular cameras  lightweight encoder-decoder network architecture  computational complexity  FastDepth  fast monocular depth estimation  depth sensing  deep neural networks  Estimation  Decoding  Neural networks  Runtime  Convolution  Complexity theory  Task analysis 
Abstract: Depth sensing is a critical function for robotic tasks such as localization, mapping and obstacle detection. There has been a significant and growing interest in depth estimation from a single RGB image, due to the relatively low cost and size of monocular cameras. However, state-of-the-art single-view depth estimation algorithms are based on fairly complex deep neural networks that are too slow for real-time inference on an embedded platform, for instance, mounted on a micro aerial vehicle. In this paper, we address the problem of fast depth estimation on embedded systems. We propose an efficient and lightweight encoder-decoder network architecture and apply network pruning to further reduce computational complexity and latency. In particular, we focus on the design of a low-latency decoder. Our methodology demonstrates that it is possible to achieve similar accuracy as prior work on depth estimation, but at inference speeds that are an order of magnitude faster. Our proposed network, FastDepth, runs at 178 fps on an NVIDIA Jetson TX2 GPU and at 27 fps when using only the TX2 CPU, with active power consumption under 10 W. FastDepth achieves close to state-of-the-art accuracy on the NYU Depth v2 dataset. To the best of the authors' knowledge, this paper demonstrates real-time monocular depth estimation using a deep neural network with the lowest latency and highest throughput on an embedded platform that can be carried by a micro aerial vehicle.

Title: Sliding Mode Momentum Observers for Estimation of External Torques and Joint Acceleration
Key Words: collision avoidance  end effectors  human-robot interaction  observers  torque control  variable structure systems  external torques  joint acceleration  external wrenches  robot structure  human-robot interaction  momentum dynamics  classic momentum observer  reaction strategies  sliding mode momentum observers  control loop  proprioceptive sensors  first-order filtered version  finite-time convergence  Observers  Robots  Collision avoidance  Torque  Convergence  Noise measurement 
Abstract: Interactions between robots and their environment give rise to external wrenches acting on the robot structure. The estimation of the resulting torques in the joints is fundamental in human-robot interaction to detect/identify collisions and perform suitable reaction strategies. Other applications may require to use the estimation for compensating the effects of the external torques within the control loop. The well-established momentum observer, which relies on proprioceptive sensors only, is usually used for these purposes. In this work, the momentum dynamics is used to derive new observers. While the classic momentum observer provides a first-order filtered version of the external torques, here a (theoretically) finite-time convergence is achieved. Simulations and experiments are used to validate the performance of the proposed methods.

Title: Discrete Layer Jamming for Safe Co-Robots
Key Words: beams (structures)  bending  clamps  elasticity  human-robot interaction  manipulator dynamics  mechanical testing  multi-robot systems  pneumatic actuators  position control  safe co-robots  stiff robot arm  robot systems  safe interaction  tunable stiffness mechanism  discrete layer jamming mechanism  robot link  multiple clamps  safer human-robot interaction  discrete layer jamming beam  injury severity  clamping pressure  pneumatic layer jamming  positioning performance  payload capacity  dynamic actuators  ABS laminates  aluminum clamps  stiffness tests  bending stiffness  pressure 0.0 MPa to 1.0 MPa  Clamps  Robots  Jamming  Laminates  Force  Friction  Safety 
Abstract: High injury severity occurs when a stiff robot arm hits an operator. Introducing compliance into robot systems reduces the impact and enables safe interaction, but at the expense of positioning performance and payload capacity. This paper presents a tunable stiffness mechanism for safe human-robot interaction based on discrete layer jamming. The proposed design of a discrete layer jamming mechanism is a robot link made of multiple thin layers of ABS and multiple clamps. By applying high clamping pressure to the laminates, the link behaves like a rigid link; reducing the clamping pressure softens the link which yields safer human-robot interaction. Compared to conventional pneumatic layer jamming, discrete layer jamming allows for simplicity of installation with dynamic actuators, faster control, greater portability since no air supply is needed, and no sealing issues. To validate the concept, this paper investigates a discrete layer jamming beam made of ten ABS laminates and two aluminum clamps that cover 10% of the surface of the beam. Stiffness tests have been performed, showing that around 17 times bending stiffness change is achieved by increasing the clamping pressure of two clamps from 0 to 1 MPa.

Title: Admittance Control for Human-Robot Interaction Using an Industrial Robot Equipped with a F/T Sensor
Key Words: end effectors  force sensors  human-robot interaction  industrial manipulators  manipulator kinematics  closed control architecture  robot dynamics  low-level joint controllers  kinematic information  admittance control law  whole-body collision detection  KUKA KR5 Sixx R650 robot  industrial robot  physical human-robot interaction  torque sensors  pHRI strategy  end-effector  force/torque sensor  ATI F/T sensor  Robot sensing systems  Collision avoidance  Service robots  Collaboration  End effectors  Current measurement 
Abstract: We present an approach to safe physical Human-Robot Interaction (pHRI) for industrial robots, including collision detection, distinguishing accidental from intentional contacts, and achieving collaborative tasks. Typical industrial robots have a closed control architecture that accepts only velocity/position reference inputs, there are no joint torque sensors, and little or no information is available to the user on robot dynamics and on low-level joint controllers. Nonetheless, taking also advantage of the presence of a Force/Torque (F/T) sensor at the end-effector, a safe pHRI strategy based on kinematic information, on measurements from joint encoders and motor currents, and on end-effector forces/torques can be realized. An admittance control law has been implemented for collaboration in manual guidance mode, with whole-body collision detection in place both when the robot is in autonomous operation and when is simultaneously collaborating with a human. Several pHRI experiments validate the approach on a KUKA KR5 Sixx R650 robot equipped with an ATI F/T sensor.

Title: Effect of Mechanical Resistance on Cognitive Conflict in Physical Human-Robot Collaboration
Key Words: bioelectric potentials  cognition  electroencephalography  human-robot interaction  medical signal processing  cognitive conflict  pHRC  PEN  mechanical resistance  conflict level  human operator  direct contact  intuitiveness  prediction error negativity  negative deflection  event related potential  physical human-robot collaboration  Robots  Task analysis  Immune system  Electroencephalography  Force  Collaboration 
Abstract: Physical Human-Robot Collaboration (pHRC) is about the interaction between one or more human operator(s) and one or more robot(s) in direct contact and voluntarily exchanging forces to accomplish a common task. In any pHRC, the intuitiveness of the interaction has always been a priority, so that the operator can comfortably and safely interact with the robot. So far, the intuitiveness has always been described in a qualitative way. In this paper, we suggest an objective way to evaluate intuitiveness, known as prediction error negativity (PEN) using electroencephalogram (EEG). PEN is defined as a negative deflection in event related potential (ERP) due to cognitive conflict, as a consequence of a mismatch between perception and reality. Experimental results showed that the forces exchanged between robot and human during pHRC modulate the amplitude of PEN, representing different levels of cognitive conflict. We also found that PEN amplitude significantly decreases (p <; 0.05) when a mechanical resistance is being applied smoothly and more time in advance before an invisible obstacle, when compared to a scenario in which the resistance is applied abruptly before the obstacle. These results indicate that an earlier and smoother resistance reduces the conflict level. Consequently, this suggests that smoother changes in resistance make the interaction more intuitive.

Title: Lifelong Learning for Heterogeneous Multi-Modal Tasks
Key Words: learning (artificial intelligence)  pattern classification  heterogeneous modalities  learned classifier  multimodal task  multimodal lifelong learning framework  consecutive multimodal learning tasks  multimodal lifelong learning problem  heterogeneous multimodal tasks  heterogeneous multimodal fusion  material recognition task  online dictionary learning algorithm  Task analysis  Dictionaries  Knowledge based systems  Machine learning  Encoding  Optimization  Robots 
Abstract: In this work, we investigate the lifelong learning problem from the viewpoint of heterogeneous multi-modal fusion. The main challenges come from the fact that the common representation between heterogeneous modalities should be persistently learned and the learned classifier for each multi-modal task should be persistently updated. To address this problem, we construct a multi-modal lifelong learning framework which deals with the consecutive multi-modal learning tasks and develop an efficient online dictionary learning algorithm to solve the multi-modal lifelong learning problem. Finally, we perform experimental validation on a complicated material recognition task and show the promising results.

Title: Magnetic-Field-Inspired Navigation for Quadcopter Robot in Unknown Environments
Key Words: autonomous aerial vehicles  collision avoidance  control engineering computing  helicopters  mobile robots  navigation  robot vision  flying robots  local sensory information  quadcopter robot  magnetic-field-inspired robot navigation  under-actuated quad-copter  arbitrary-shaped convex obstacles  magnetic field interaction  reactive navigation algorithms  unknown environments  motion commands  local minima configurations  dynamic model  commercial AscTec Pelican microaerial vehicle  Collision avoidance  Robot sensing systems  Navigation  Wires  Force 
Abstract: In this paper, a magnetic-field-inspired robot navigation is used to navigate an under-actuated quad-copter towards the desired position amidst previously-unknown arbitrary-shaped convex obstacles. Taking inspiration from the phenomena of magnetic field interaction with charged particles observed in nature, the algorithm outperforms previous reactive navigation algorithms for flying robots found in the literature as it is able to reactively generate motion commands relying only on a local sensory information without prior knowledge of the obstacles' shape or location and without getting trapped in local minima configurations. The application of the algorithm in a dynamic model of quadcopter system and in the realistic model of the commercial AscTec Pelican micro-aerial vehicle confirm the superior performance of the algorithm.

Title: Human-Care Rounds Robot with Contactless Breathing Measurement
Key Words: biomedical measurement  handicapped aids  health care  human-robot interaction  medical robotics  mobile robots  patient care  pneumodynamics  robot vision  physical support  care staffs  medical facilities  vision-based contactless breathing measurement system  human detection  nursing facility  human measurement system  autonomous rounds robot  breathing measurement system  human-care rounds robot  three-dimensional shape  thermal information  Lucia robot  body postures  Robot kinematics  Machine vision  Monitoring  Medical services  Cameras  Frequency-domain analysis 
Abstract: This paper describes a human measurement system for autonomous rounds robot aiming in physical support of care staffs working in nursing and medical facilities. We propose a novel scheme of vision-based contactless breathing measurement system that integrates three-dimensional shape and thermal information of the target person. We developed the human-care rounds robot Lucia and implemented the measurement system on the robot. We then evaluated the human detection and breathing measurement based on the conditions of real incident cases that occurred in the nursing facility for the physically handicapped. In the experiments, we examined that the breathing measurement system successfully measured volume variation of human subjects with different configurations of body postures. The robot is also capable of discrimination between the breathing and non-breathing states of targets based on the difference in the power spectrum patterns in the frequency domain. The experimental results showed that the proposed system detected the presence of breathing within the accuracy of about 90% or more, and moreover, the ability of anomaly detection in breathing was suggested.

Title: An Improved Control-Oriented Modeling of the Magnetic Field
Key Words: closed loop systems  coils  interpolation  magnetic fields  microrobots  mobile robots  motion control  control-oriented model  coil  untethered microscale mobile robotics  elliptic integral functions  magnetically actuated microrobots  map-based interpolation  computation time  closed-loop control  dipole approximation  Magnetic domains  Computational modeling  Magnetic hysteresis  Soft magnetic materials  Numerical models  Robots  Magnetic cores 
Abstract: This paper proposes a new control-oriented model to compute the magnetic field created by a coil. A major challenge for untethered microscale mobile robotics is the control of objects for precise and fast displacements. In this work, we propose to use an alternative implementation of a model based on elliptic integral functions to control magnetically actuated micro-robots. It allows to compute the magnetic field even in the area close to the coil quickly and accurately. This model is evaluated numerically and compared to classical approaches - dipole approximation, map-based interpolation and classical elliptic integral models - in terms of accuracy, computation time and memory requirement. Simulation results show that this works allows to have an accurate model in the whole workspace by avoiding numerical issues encountered in previous works. It can be computed in a few milliseconds, making it the right candidate for closed-loop control of magnetically actuated micro-robots.

Title: Efficient Micro Waveguide Coupling based on Microrobotic Positioning
Key Words: fuzzy control  integrated optics  micro-optics  microrobots  optical fibre couplers  optical microscopy  path planning  fuzzy controller  degrees of freedoms  microwaveguide coupling  path planning strategy  integrated optical component  optical fiber  micromanufacture field  traditional manual method  optical microscopy  microrobotic positioning system  light intensity feedback  commercial optoelectronic devices  optical devices  time 40.0 s  Couplings  Optical fibers  Optical fiber sensors  Optical distortion 
Abstract: Coupling the endface of an optical fiber to an integrated optical component is currently a low-throughput and costly manual process in the fabrication of the optical devices. In order to meet the high-volume demand for commercial optoelectronic devices, coupling must be automated. This paper presents a robotic positioning system and corresponding path planning strategy based on both the position and light intensity feedback. In this work, a micro-robotic positioning system with 3 degrees of freedoms (DOFs) is developed and integrated with an optical microscopy. Then the fuzzy controller is developed to design the trajectory. Lastly, simulation and experimental results demonstrate the accuracy and efficiency of the proposed system. Compared with the traditional manual method, the robotic positioning system can realize the coupling within 40 seconds. This method will have a significant impact on the automatic process of the micro manufacture field.

Title: Assembly of Multilayered Hepatic Lobule-like Vascular Network by using Heptapole Magnetic Tweezer
Key Words: biomedical materials  blood  blood vessels  cellular biophysics  hydrogels  liver  multilayers  steel  rat liver cells  fibrin gel  cell viability  cellular structure  3D channel network  magnetic tweezer  magnetic fields  central veins  portal veins  hepatic lobule tissue  magnetic hydrogel fibers  multilayered channel system  cell-laden hydrogels  heptapole magnetic tweezer  multilayered hepatic lobule-like vascular network  steel rods  Steel  Three-dimensional displays  Optical fiber networks  Veins  Magnetic flux  Magnetic fields  Magnetic multilayers 
Abstract: In this paper, we have fabricated a multilayered hepatic lobule-like vascular network in a 3D tissue using a heptapole magnetic tweezer. The tissue consists of cell-laden hydrogels with 3D channel networks. To fabricate multilayered channel system, magnetic hydrogel fibers were manipulated by a magnetic tweezer. The hepatic lobule tissue shows a hexagonal structure with different sizes of veins. Six portal veins transfer the blood including nutrients and oxygen to a central vein by sinusoids. The portal and central veins are made by steel rods, whereas the magnetic hydrogel fibers has a role of sinusoids. An important point of this research is to connect two veins - portal and central vein - by magnetic fibers. For this, we used magnetic tweezer with seven poles to magnetize the steel rods. In order to generate high magnetic fields, we design magnetic tweezer with a flat tip and additional lower tweezer based on simulation data. The manipulation was performed in fibrin gel inside rat liver cells. By applying high magnetic fields, we attracted magnetic fibers to the steel rods and constructed 3D channel network in cellular structure. To verify the efficiency of the channel, we supply culture medium to the channel and then analyze the cell viability according to the distance from the channel. As a result, the cells located at close to the channel show higher cell viability than others.

Title: Sizing the aortic annulus with a robotised, commercially available soft balloon catheter: in vitro study on idealised phantoms
Key Words: blood vessels  cardiology  catheters  diseases  iterative methods  medical robotics  phantoms  prosthetics  surgery  intraballoon pressure  soft balloon catheter  heart valve diseases  linear regression  iterative method  pressure-volume data  idealised aortic phantoms  balloon free inflation  inflation device  robotised valvuloplasty balloon catheter  cardiac electrical signal  prosthetic valve leakage  implanted prosthetic valve  aortic heart valve diseases  minimally invasive surgical technique  transcatheter aortic valve implantation  aortic annulus  Valves  Catheters  Prosthetics  Robots  Three-dimensional displays  Geometry  Mathematical model 
Abstract: Transcatheter aortic valve implantation (TAVI) is a minimally invasive surgical technique to treat aortic heart valve diseases. According to current clinical guidelines, the implanted prosthetic valve replacing the native one is selected based on pre-operative size assessment of the aortic annulus through different imaging techniques. That very often leads to suboptimal device selection resulting in major complications, such as prosthetic valve leakage or interruption of the cardiac electrical signal. In this paper, we propose a new, intra-operative approach to determine the diameter of theaortic annulus exploiting intra-balloon pressure and volume data, acquired from a robotised valvuloplasty balloon catheter. An inflation device, capable of collecting real-time intra-balloon pressure and volume data, was designed and interfaced with a commercially available valvuloplasty balloon catheter. A sizing algorithm allowing to precisely estimate the annular diameter was integrated. The algorithm relies on a characterised analytical model of the balloon free inflation and an iterative method based on linear regression. In vitro tests were performed on idealised aortic phantoms. Experimental results show that pressure-volume data can be used to determine annular diameters bigger than the unstretched diameter of the balloon catheter. For these cases, the proposed approach exhibited good precision (maximum average error 0.93%) and good repeatability (maximum standard deviation ±0.11 mm).

Title: Miniature Robotic Tubes with Rotational Tip-Joints as a Medical Delivery Platform
Key Words: controllability  hinges  medical robotics  motion control  needles  position control  robot kinematics  surgery  miniature robotic tubes  rotational tip-joints  medical delivery platform  medical-needle-sized robotic tube  instrument tip  two-axis laser micromachining  direct tip controllability  human body  hinged instrument  flexure joints  shorter joint length  compact articulation  joint strength  lateral directions  robust delivery platform  hinge rotation  instrumented prototype  laser beam  fine angle control  kinematic model  tip motion control  Fasteners  Joints  Robots  Instruments  Electron tubes  Kinematics  Tendons 
Abstract: We present a medical-needle-sized robotic tube with multi-degrees of freedom (M-DOF) rotational hinge joints at the instrument tip, fabricated by two-axis laser micro-machining. Due to the presence of an ample working channel and direct tip controllability, this tube is a potential candidate for the precise delivery of radioactive seeds, probes and micro-forceps to regions of interest within the human body. In this paper, the advantages of the proposed hinged instrument are studied in contrast with that of flexure joints, which include-fine angle control (posability), and a shorter joint length that enables compact articulation. In addition, the joint strength both in the axial and lateral directions was experimentally investigated to demonstrate its feasibility as a robust delivery platform. Further, the intuitive nature of hinge rotation permits the use of a simple kinematic model for accurate tip motion control, under fewer simplifying assumptions than flexure joints which are impeded by material non-linearity and geometric discontinuities. An instrumented prototype was used to test this model by delivering a laser beam along a prescribed path (synonymous to simple ablation tasks). The observed RMS position error for the projected beam was ~0.364 mm.

Title: Nonlinear System Identification of Soft Robot Dynamics Using Koopman Operator Theory
Key Words: autoregressive processes  identification  learning (artificial intelligence)  mean square error methods  mobile robots  neural nets  nonlinear control systems  nonlinear dynamical systems  pneumatic actuators  regression analysis  robot dynamics  state-space methods  soft robot dynamics  Koopman operator theory  large-scale data collection  system identification method  nonlinear dynamical systems  linear regression  linear representation  infinite-dimensional space  nonlinear system identification methods  dynamic model  pneumatic soft robot arm  linear state space model  nonlinear Hammerstein-Wiener model  neural network  total normalized-root-mean-square error  NRMSE  Soft robotics  Nonlinear dynamical systems  Predictive models  Linear regression  Data models  Tuning 
Abstract: Soft robots are challenging to model due in large part to the nonlinear properties of soft materials. Fortunately, this softness makes it possible to safely observe their behavior under random control inputs, making them amenable to large-scale data collection and system identification. This paper implements and evaluates a system identification method based on Koopman operator theory in which models of nonlinear dynamical systems are constructed via linear regression of observed data by exploiting the fact that every nonlinear system has a linear representation in the infinite-dimensional space of real-valued functions called observables. The approach does not suffer from some of the shortcomings of other nonlinear system identification methods, which typically require the manual tuning of training parameters and have limited convergence guarantees. A dynamic model of a pneumatic soft robot arm is constructed via this method, and used to predict the behavior of the real system. The total normalized-root-mean-square error (NRMSE) of its predictions is lower than that of several other identified models including a neural network, NLARX, nonlinear Hammerstein-Wiener, and linear state space model.

Title: Data Driven Inverse Kinematics of Soft Robots using Local Models
Key Words: computational complexity  data visualisation  learning (artificial intelligence)  mobile robots  path planning  robot kinematics  data driven inverse kinematics  soft robot  computational approaches  data quantity  memory complexity  time complexity  actuation system  visual markers  motion planning  motion control  learning cube environment  Shape  Soft robotics  Sensors  Kinematics  Calibration  Computational modeling 
Abstract: Soft robots are advantageous in terms of flexibility, safety and adaptability. It is challenging to find efficient computational approaches for planning and controlling their motion. This work takes a direct data-driven approach to learn the kinematics of the three-dimensional shape of a soft robot, by using visual markers. No prior information about the robot at hand is required. The model is oblivious to the design of the robot and type of actuation system. This allows adaptation to erroneous manufacturing. We present a highly versatile and inexpensive learning cube environment for collecting and analysing data. We prove that using multiple, lower order models of data opposed to one global, higher order model, will reduce the required data quantity, time complexity and memory complexity significantly without compromising accuracy. Further, our approach allows for embarrassingly parallelism. Yielding an overall much more simple and efficient approach.

Title: Modal Dynamics and Analysis of a Vertical Stretch-Retractable Continuum Manipulator with Large Deflection
Key Words: beams (structures)  bending  dynamic response  elasticity  integral equations  manipulator dynamics  vibrations  vertical stretch-retractable continuum manipulator  backbone continuum manipulator  deformation modal properties  tip horizontal load  elastic bending potential energy  free dynamic response  modal dynamic models  static model  vibration modal characteristics  equivalent-guided beam  frequency properties  elliptic integral approach  Manipulator dynamics  Analytical models  Potential energy  Shape  Dynamics  Force 
Abstract: Efficient and reliable dynamic modelling and analysis is critical to the shape control and estimate of a backbone continuum manipulator. This paper presents a novel dynamic modelling method to investigate the deformation modal properties of a vertical stretch-retractable continuum manipulator (VSRCM) under the tip horizontal load. Based on the equivalence of the elastic bending potential energy, this method simplifies the backbone continuum manipulator to a single beam, an equivalent-guided beam (EGB). One end of the EGB is fixed, and the other end is guided. The modal dynamics model of the EGB is then established by employing the vibration theory of a continuous beam, and the modal properties of the continuum manipulator are analyzed. Static and Dynamic experiments of the VSRCM are performed to validate the dynamic modeling method through the comparison and analysis of the free dynamic response and frequency properties of the continuum manipulator. To analyze the free dynamic response, the large deflection static model with tip horizontal load is also established based on the elliptic integral approach. Experimental results and comparison demonstrate that the static model is efficient and precise to predict the large deformation, and the modal dynamic models well reflect the actual vibration modal characteristics of the VSRCM.

Title: ChainQueen: A Real-Time Differentiable Physical Simulator for Soft Robotics
Key Words: deformation  elasticity  gradient methods  inverse problems  least squares approximations  manipulator dynamics  mobile robots  multi-robot systems  optimal control  optimisation  path planning  ChainQueen  real-time differentiable physical simulator  robot planning  gradient-based optimization algorithms  inverse problems  optimal control  motion planning  rigid body simulators  deformable objects  rigid body dynamics  Lagrangian-Eulerian physical simulator  MLS-MPM  soft robotic systems  forward simulation  backward gradient computation  moving least squares material point method  Graphics processing units  Computational modeling  Soft robotics  Three-dimensional displays  Planning  Inverse problems 
Abstract: Physical simulators have been widely used in robot planning and control. Among them, differentiable simulators are particularly favored, as they can be incorporated into gradient-based optimization algorithms that are efficient in solving inverse problems such as optimal control and motion planning. Therefore, rigid body simulators and recently their differentiable variants are studied extensively. Simulating deformable objects is, however, more challenging compared to rigid body dynamics. The underlying physical laws of deformable objects are more complex, and the resulting systems have orders of magnitude more degrees of freedom and there-fore they are significantly more computationally expensive to simulate. Computing gradients with respect to physical design or controller parameters is typically even more computationally challenging. In this paper, we propose a real-time, differentiable hybrid Lagrangian-Eulerian physical simulator for deformable objects, ChainQueen, based on the Moving Least Squares Material Point Method (MLS-MPM). MLS-MPM can simulate deformable objects with collisions and can be seamlessly incorporated into soft robotic systems. We demonstrate that our simulator achieves high precision in both forward simulation and backward gradient computation. We have successfully employed it in a diverse set of inference, control and co-design tasks for soft robotics.

Title: A Validated Physical Model For Real-Time Simulation of Soft Robotic Snakes
Key Words: actuators  biomimetics  closed loop systems  deformation  legged locomotion  pneumatic actuators  robot dynamics  constraint-based dynamics model  multiphysics environment  soft robotic actuators  real-time simulation  validated physical model  real-time performance  dynamic locomotion open-loop control experiments  multiple 1D actuators  soft robotic snake  internal pressure forces  1-dimensional pneumatic soft actuator  Actuators  Deformable models  Soft robotics  Strain  Finite element analysis  Mathematical model 
Abstract: In this work we present a framework that is capable of accurately representing soft robotic actuators in a multiphysics environment in real-time. We propose a constraint-based dynamics model of a 1-dimensional pneumatic soft actuator that accounts for internal pressure forces, as well as the effect of actuator latency and damping under inflation and deflation and demonstrate its accuracy a full soft robotic snake with the composition of multiple 1D actuators. We verify our model's accuracy in static deformation and dynamic locomotion open-loop control experiments. To achieve real-time performance we leverage the parallel computation power of GPUs to allow interactive control and feedback.

Title: SpaceBok: A Dynamic Legged Robot for Space Exploration
Key Words: aerospace robotics  force control  legged locomotion  motion control  robot dynamics  SpaceBok  dynamic legged robot  space exploration  quadrupedal robot  dynamic legged locomotion  parallel elastic elements  high-torque brushless motors  force control  walking velocity  planetary gear transmissions  optimized parallel motion  jumping maneuvers  Legged locomotion  Hip  Actuators  Gravity  Torque  Foot 
Abstract: This paper introduces SpaceBok, a quadrupedal robot created to investigate dynamic legged locomotion for the exploration of low-gravity celestial bodies. With a hip height of 500 mm and a mass of 20 kg, its dimensions are comparable to a medium-sized dog. The robot's leg configuration is based on an optimized parallel motion mechanism that allows the integration of parallel elastic elements to store and release energy for powerful jumping maneuvers. High-torque brushless motors in combination with customized single-stage planetary gear transmissions enable force control at the foot contact points based on motor currents. We present successful walking, trotting, and pronking experiments. Thereby, Spacebok achieved maximal jump heights in single jump experiments of up to 1.05 m (more than twice the hip height) and a walking velocity of 1m/s. Moreover, simulation results for low gravity on the moon suggest that our robot can move with up to 1.1m/s at an approximate cost of transport of 1 in moon gravity when using the pronking gait.

Title: Mini Cheetah: A Platform for Pushing the Limits of Dynamic Quadruped Control
Key Words: force control  legged locomotion  motion control  nonlinear control systems  optimisation  predictive control  robot dynamics  Mini Cheetah  powerful robot  mechanically robust quadruped robot  control systems  legged robots  custom backdriveable modular actuators  high-bandwidth force control  high force density  dynamic trot  dynamic quadruped control  convex model-predictive control  cMPC  offline nonlinear optimization  size 0.3 m  mass 9.0 kg  Actuators  Legged locomotion  Torque  Bandwidth  Knee  Torque control 
Abstract: Mini Cheetah is a small and inexpensive, yet powerful and mechanically robust quadruped robot, intended to enable rapid development of control systems for legged robots. The robot uses custom backdriveable modular actuators, which enable high-bandwidth force control, high force density, and robustness to impacts. Standing around 0.3 m tall and weighing 9 kg, Mini Cheetah can easily be handled by a single operator. We have demonstrated dynamic trot, trot-run, bounding, and pronking gaits on the robot to speeds of up to 2.45 meters per second using Convex Model-Predictive Control (cMPC). In addition to locomotion, we have used the robot to execute 360° backflips, with trajectories generated using offline nonlinear optimization.

Title: Optimal Leg Sequencing for a Hexapod Subject to External Forces and Slopes
Key Words: force control  gait analysis  legged locomotion  stability  hexapod subject  optimal leg sequence selection method  hexapod robot stability  terrain slope  stable leg sequence  search method  force-angle stability margin criterion  Legged locomotion  Stability criteria  Robot sensing systems  Foot 
Abstract: An optimal leg sequence selection method is developed, which maximizes hexapod robot stability, considering feasible gaits, motion modes, and terrain slope. A novel and fast search method is employed to find the most stable leg sequence for a given gait; if no such sequence exists, the next fastest stable gait is chosen and the most stable leg sequence for this gait is selected. The method can be based on any stability measure; here the Force-Angle Stability Margin criterion is employed that is sensitive to top-heaviness, and inertial and external forces. Results show that the developed method senses instabilities accurately and selects the best leg sequence for maximum stability far faster than exhaustive searches, offering distinct advantages when varied external forces are applied.

Title: Stanford Doggo: An Open-Source, Quasi-Direct-Drive Quadruped
Key Words: legged locomotion  robot dynamics  robot kinematics  legged robots  quasidirect-drive quadruped  open-source  quasidirect-drive design methodology  performing animal  average vertical speed  vertical jumping agility  common performance metrics  dynamic locomotion  Stanford Doggo  Legged locomotion  Torque  Force  Measurement  Robot sensing systems  Foot 
Abstract: This paper presents Stanford Doggo, a quasi-direct-drive quadruped capable of dynamic locomotion. This robot matches or exceeds common performance metrics of state-of-the-art legged robots. In terms of vertical jumping agility, a measure of average vertical speed, Stanford Doggo matches the best performing animal and surpasses the previous best robot by 22%. An overall design architecture is presented with focus on our quasi-direct-drive design methodology. The hardware and software to replicate this robot is open-source, requires only hand tools for manufacturing and assembly, and costs less than $3000.

Title: Workspace CPG with Body Pose Control for Stable, Directed Vision during Omnidirectional Locomotion
Key Words: legged locomotion  motion control  path planning  pose estimation  robot vision  vision system  DOF  central pattern generator  degree-of-freedom  gaze orientation  body velocity  path planning  legged robot  omnidirectional locomotion  hexapod robot  CPG framework  body pose control  robot body  Foot  Machine vision  Legged locomotion  Trajectory  Transforms  Phase change materials 
Abstract: In this paper, we focus on the problem of directing the gaze of a vision system mounted to the body of a high-degree-of-freedom (DOF) legged robot for active perception deployments. In particular, we consider the case where the vision system is rigidly attached to the robot's body (i.e., without any additional DOF between the vision system and robot body) and show how the supernumerary DOFs of the robot can be leveraged to allow independent locomotion and gaze control. Specifically, we augment a workspace central pattern generator (CPG) with omnidirectional capabilities by coupling it with a body pose control mechanism. We leverage the smoothing nature of the CPG framework to allow online adaptation of relevant locomotion parameters, and obtain a stable mid-level controller that translates desired gaze orientation and body velocity directly into joint angles. We validate our approach on an 18-DOF hexapod robot, in a series of indoor and outdoor trials, where the robot inspects an environmental feature or follows a pre-planned path relative to a visually-tracked landmark, demonstrating simultaneous locomotion and directed vision.

Title: Robotic Forceps without Position Sensors using Visual SLAM
Key Words: cameras  mobile robots  position control  robot vision  servomechanisms  SLAM (robots)  visual servoing  robotic forceps  position sensors  visual SLAM  wrist joint  joint angle sensing  rear end  rear joint  parallel linkage  monocular camera  position sensing  joint angles  visual servo system  static experiments  dynamic positioning experiments  visual servoing system  forceps tip  Cameras  Robot vision systems  Visualization  Gravity 
Abstract: In this study, a robotic forceps with a wrist joint using visual SLAM for joint angle sensing was developed. The forceps has a flexible joint connected to the wrist joint at its rear end and the motion of the rear joint is driven by a parallel linkage. A monocular camera attached on the rear of the parallel linkage is in charge of position sensing, and the joint angles are estimated from the pose of the camera. The pose of the camera is obtained by a visual SLAM. The visual servo system realizes a simple attaching mechanism. The static and dynamic positioning experiments are conducted. We confirmed that the visual servoing system controls the forceps tip within the error of 3 deg in the motion range of 50 deg.

Title: 3D Keypoint Repeatability for Heterogeneous Multi-Robot SLAM
Key Words: feature extraction  mobile robots  multi-robot systems  robot vision  SLAM (robots)  point cloud registration  loop closure  heterogenous multirobot SLAM applications  NARF detector  3D keypoint repeatability  heterogeneous multirobot SLAM  multirobot SLAM scenario  sensor measurement point clouds  point density  3D keypoint detectors  multirobot SLAM system  KPQ-SI  relative repeatability  Three-dimensional displays  Detectors  Simultaneous localization and mapping  Cameras  Laser radar 
Abstract: For robots with different types of sensors, loop closure in a multi-robot SLAM scenario requires keypoints that can be matched between sensor measurement point clouds with different properties such as point density and noise. In this paper, we evaluate the performance of several 3D keypoint detectors (Harris3D, ISS, KPQ, KPQ-SI, and NARF) for repeatability between scans from different sensors towards building a heterogeneous multi-robot SLAM system. We find that KPQ-SI and NARF have the best relative repeatability, with KPQ-SI finding more keypoints overall and a higher number of repeatable keypoints, at the cost of significantly worse computational performance. In scans of the same area from different poses, both detectors find enough keypoints for point cloud registration and loop closure. For heterogenous multirobot SLAM applications with computational or bandwidth restrictions, the NARF detector consistently finds repeatable keypoints while also allowing for real-time performance.

Title: ROVO: Robust Omnidirectional Visual Odometry for Wide-baseline Wide-FOV Camera Systems
Key Words: cameras  distance measurement  feature extraction  image matching  image sequences  lenses  motion estimation  optimisation  pose estimation  stereo image processing  hybrid projection model  multiview P3P RANSAC algorithm  multiview images  wide-baseline wide-FOV camera systems  robust visual odometry system  wide-baseline camera rig  field-of-view fisheye lenses  omnidirectional stereo observations  ego-motion estimation  VO pipeline  feature matching  pose estimation  omnidirectional visual odometry  Cameras  Robot vision systems  Visual odometry  Calibration  Pose estimation 
Abstract: In this paper we propose a robust visual odometry system for a wide-baseline camera rig with wide field-of-view (FOV) fisheye lenses, which provides full omnidirectional stereo observations of the environment. For more robust and accurate ego-motion estimation we adds three components to the standard VO pipeline, 1) the hybrid projection model for improved feature matching, 2) multi-view P3P RANSAC algorithm for pose estimation, and 3) online update of rig extrinsic parameters. The hybrid projection model combines the perspective and cylindrical projection to maximize the overlap between views and minimize the image distortion that degrades feature matching performance. The multi-view P3P RANSAC algorithm extends the conventional P3P RANSAC to multi-view images so that all feature matches in all views are considered in the inlier counting for robust pose estimation. Finally the online extrinsic calibration is seamlessly integrated in the backend optimization framework so that the changes in camera poses due to shocks or vibrations can be corrected automatically. The proposed system is extensively evaluated with synthetic datasets with ground-truth and real sequences of highly dynamic environment, and its superior performance is demonstrated.

Title: SLAMBench 3.0: Systematic Automated Reproducible Evaluation of SLAM Systems for Robot Vision Challenges and Scene Understanding
Key Words: control engineering computing  convolutional neural nets  image reconstruction  natural scenes  robot vision  SLAM (robots)  scene understanding  nonrigid environments  dynamic SLAM  SLAMBench 3  evaluation infrastructure  systematic automated reproducible evaluation  robot vision  visual SLAM  SLAM research area  visulation aids  visulation metrics  convolutional neural networks  dynamicfusion  Simultaneous localization and mapping  Semantics  Three-dimensional displays  Measurement  Benchmark testing  Heuristic algorithms  C++ languages 
Abstract: As the SLAM research area matures and the number of SLAM systems available increases, the need for frameworks that can objectively evaluate them against prior work grows. This new version of SLAMBench moves beyond traditional visual SLAM, and provides new support for scene understanding and non-rigid environments (dynamic SLAM). More concretely for dynamic SLAM, SLAMBench 3.0 includes the first publicly available implementation of DynamicFusion, along with an evaluation infrastructure. In addition, we include two SLAM systems (one dense, one sparse) augmented with convolutional neural networks for scene understanding, together with datasets and appropriate metrics. Through a series of use-cases, we demonstrate the newly incorporated algorithms, visulation aids and metrics (6 new metrics, 4 new datasets and 5 new algorithms).

Title: Beyond Photometric Loss for Self-Supervised Ego-Motion Estimation
Key Words: motion estimation  pose estimation  SLAM (robots)  photometric loss  self-supervised ego-motion estimation  accurate relative pose  SLAM  self-supervised learning framework  image depth  photometric error  systematic error  realistic scenes  geometric loss  matching loss  self-supervised framework  unsupervised egomotion estimation methods  Simultaneous localization and mapping  Estimation  Geometry  Cameras  Motion estimation  Visualization  Visual odometry 
Abstract: Accurate relative pose is one of the key components in visual odometry (VO) and simultaneous localization and mapping (SLAM). Recently, the self-supervised learning framework that jointly optimizes the relative pose and target image depth has attracted the attention of the community. Previous works rely on the photometric error generated from depths and poses between adjacent frames, which contains large systematic error under realistic scenes due to reflective surfaces and occlusions. In this paper, we bridge the gap between geometric loss and photometric loss by introducing the matching loss constrained by epipolar geometry in a self-supervised framework. Evaluated on the KITTI dataset, our method outperforms the state-of-the-art unsupervised egomotion estimation methods by a large margin. The code and data are available at https://github.com/hlzz/DeepMatchVO.

Title: Efficient Integrity Monitoring for KF-based Localization
Key Words: Kalman filters  location based services  mobile radio  mobile robots  KF-based localization  localization safety  mobile robots  aviation performance metric  aviation integrity monitoring solutions  robot navigation  integrity monitoring  global navigation satellite system  positioning sensors  Kalman filter-based localization  autonomous navigation  Sensors  Monitoring  Current measurement  Mathematical model  Fault detection  Safety  Time measurement 
Abstract: This paper presents a new method to efficiently monitor localization safety in mobile robots. Localization safety is quantified by measuring the system's integrity risk, which is a well-known aviation performance metric. However, aviation integrity monitoring solutions almost exclusively rely on the Global Navigation Satellite System (GNSS) while robot navigation usually needs the additional information provided by a state evolution model and/or relative positioning sensors, which makes previously established approaches impractical. In response, this paper develops an efficient integrity monitoring methodology applicable to Kalman Filter-based localization. The work is intended for life-or mission-critical operations such as co-robot applications where ignoring the impact of faults can jeopardize human safety.

Title: High-Precision Localization Using Ground Texture
Key Words: cameras  Global Positioning System  image capture  image texture  location based services  location-aware applications  satellite-based localization  image-based global localization system  index distinctive local keypoints  fine texture  image processing pipeline  captured texture patch  test images  outdoor ground surfaces  indoor ground surfaces  ground textures  Cameras  Global Positioning System  Databases  Robots  Feature extraction  Three-dimensional displays  Asphalt 
Abstract: Location-aware applications play an increasingly critical role in everyday life. However, satellite-based localization (e.g., GPS) has limited accuracy and can be unusable in dense urban areas and indoors. We introduce an image-based global localization system that is accurate to a few millimeters and performs reliable localization both indoors and outside. The key idea is to capture and index distinctive local keypoints in ground textures. This is based on the observation that ground textures including wood, carpet, tile, concrete, and asphalt may look random and homogeneous, but all contain cracks, scratches, or unique arrangements of fibers. These imperfections are persistent, and can serve as local features. Our system incorporates a downward-facing camera to capture the fine texture of the ground, together with an image processing pipeline that locates the captured texture patch in a compact database constructed offline. We demonstrate the capability of our system to robustly, accurately, and quickly locate test images on various types of outdoor and indoor ground surfaces. This paper contains a supplementary video. All datasets and code are available online at microgps.cs.princeton.edu.

Title: IN2LAMA: INertial Lidar Localisation And MApping
Key Words: mobile robots  motion estimation  optical radar  optimisation  probability  robot vision  IN2LAMA  spinning mechanisms  resulting point clouds  lidar mapping literature  constant velocity motion model  upsampled inertial data  motion distortion  explicit motion-model  temporally precise upsampled preintegrated measurement  frame-to-frame planar  edge features association  probabilistic framework  inertial lidar localisation and mapping  batch on-manifold optimisation formulation  state change estimation  front-end interaction  back-end interaction  Laser radar  Distortion measurement  Three-dimensional displays  Distortion  Optimization  Trajectory  Gyroscopes 
Abstract: In this paper, we introduce a probabilistic framework for INertial Lidar Localisation And MApping (IN2LAMA). Most of today's lidars are based on spinning mechanisms that do not capture snapshots of the environment. As a result, movement of the sensor can occur while scanning. Without a good estimation of this motion, the resulting point clouds might be distorted. In the lidar mapping literature, a constant velocity motion model is commonly assumed. This is an approximation that does not necessarily always hold. The key idea of the proposed framework is to exploit preintegrated measurements over upsampled inertial data to handle motion distortion without the need for any explicit motion-model. It tightly integrates inertial and lidar data in a batch on-manifold optimisation formulation. Using temporally precise upsampled preintegrated measurement allows frame-to-frame planar and edge features association. Moreover, features are re-computed when the estimate of the state changes, consolidating front-end and back-end interaction. We validate the effectiveness of the approach through simulated and real data.

Title: Speeding Up Iterative Closest Point Using Stochastic Gradient Descent
Key Words: gradient methods  image colour analysis  image registration  iterative methods  optimisation  pose estimation  SLAM (robots)  stochastic gradient descent  3D laser scanners  RGB-D cameras  model registration  iterative closest point  SGD  convergence speed  3D point clouds  pose estimation  SLAM  optimisation problem  Three-dimensional displays  Standards  Stochastic processes  Euclidean distance  Cost function  Sensors 
Abstract: Sensors producing 3D point clouds such as 3D laser scanners and RGB-D cameras are widely used in robotics, be it for autonomous driving or manipulation. Aligning point clouds produced by these sensors is a vital component in such applications to perform tasks such as model registration, pose estimation, and SLAM. Iterative closest point (ICP) is the most widely used method for this task, due to its simplicity and efficiency. In this paper we propose a novel method which solves the optimisation problem posed by ICP using stochastic gradient descent (SGD). Using SGD allows us to improve the convergence speed of ICP without sacrificing solution quality. Experiments using Kinect as well as Velodyne data show that, our proposed method is faster than existing methods, while obtaining solutions comparable to standard ICP. An additional benefit is robustness to parameters when processing data from different sensors.

Title: Energy Tank-Based Wrench/Impedance Control of a Fully-Actuated Hexarotor: A Geometric Port-Hamiltonian Approach
Key Words: autonomous aerial vehicles  control system synthesis  controllability  end effectors  feedback  force control  helicopters  mobile robots  nonlinear control systems  observers  stability  trajectory control  fully-actuated hexarotor  geometrically consistent manner  wrench observer  geometric port-Hamiltonian approach  aerial robot  port-Hamiltonian framework  special Euclidean group  UAV nonlinear geometric structure  energy tanks concept  contact stability  Unmanned aerial vehicles  Impedance  Robots  Springs  Propellers  Mathematical model  Observers 
Abstract: In this work, we show how the interactive behavior of an aerial robot can be modeled and controlled effectively and elegantly in the port-Hamiltonian framework. We present an observer-based wrench/impedance controller for a fully-actuated hexarotor. The analysis and control are performed in a geometrically consistent manner on the configuration manifold of the special Euclidean group SE (3) such that the UAV's nonlinear geometric structure is exploited. The controller uses a wrench observer to estimate the interaction wrench without the use of a force/torque sensor. Moreover, the concept of energy tanks is used to guarantee the system's overall contact stability to arbitrary passive environments. The reliability and robustness of the proposed approach is validated through simulation and experiment.

Title: Integral Backstepping Position Control for Quadrotors in Tunnel-Like Confined Environments
Key Words: aerodynamics  aerospace robotics  helicopters  Kalman filters  mechanical stability  mobile robots  pose estimation  position control  robot dynamics  robot vision  SLAM (robots)  tunnels  vision-based localisation  cross-sectional localisation system  integral backstepping controller  quadrotors  tunnel-like confined environments  integral backstepping position control  kinematic Kalman filter  semiautonomous system  flying robots  aerodynamic disturbances  Backstepping  Aerodynamics  Kinematics  Kalman filters  Navigation  Rail transportation  Sensors 
Abstract: There are many potential applications that require flying robots to navigate through tunnel-like environments, such as inspections of small railway culverts and mineral mappings of mining tunnels. Nevertheless, those environments present many challenges for quadrotors to navigate through. The aerodynamic disturbances created from the fluid interaction between the propellers' downwash and the surrounding surfaces of the environment, as well as longitudinal wind gusts, add hardship in stabilising the vehicle while the restricted narrow space increases the risk of collision. Furthermore, poor visibility and dust blown by the downwash make vision-based localisation extremely difficult. This paper presents a cross-sectional localisation system using Hough Scan Matching and a simple kinematic Kalman filter. Using the estimated state information, an integral backstepping controller is implemented which enables quadrotors to robustly fly in tunnel-like confined environments. A semi-autonomous system is proposed with self-stabilisation in the vertical and lateral axes while a pilot provides commands in the longitudinal direction. The results of a series of experiments in a simulated tunnel show that the proposed system successfully hovered itself and tracked various trajectories in a cross-sectional area without the aid of any external sensing or computing system.

Title: Control and Configuration Planning of an Aerial Cable Towed System
Key Words: autonomous aerial vehicles  cables (mechanical)  feedback  helicopters  linearisation techniques  manipulator dynamics  manipulator kinematics  manipulators  mobile robots  path planning  robust control  trajectory control  aerial cable towed system  robot configuration  kinematic models  centralized feedback linearization controller  optimal configurations  dynamic trajectories  ACTS  quadrotors manipulating  robustness  Payloads  Kinematics  Vehicle dynamics  Dynamics  Mathematical model  Trajectory  Propulsion  Aerial Systems  Multi-Robot Systems  Quadrotors  Control  Reconfiguration  Cable-Driven Parallel Robots 
Abstract: This paper investigates the effect of the robot configuration on the performance of an aerial cable towed system (ACTS) composed of three quadrotors manipulating a point mass payload. The kinematic and dynamic models of the ACTS are derived in a minimal set of geometric coordinates, and a centralized feedback linearization controller is developed. Independent to the payload trajectory, the configuration of the ACTS is controlled and is evaluated using a robustness index named the capacity margin. Experiments are performed with optimal, suboptimal, and wrench infeasible configurations. It is shown that configurations near the point of zero capacity margin allow the ACTS to hover but not to follow dynamic trajectories, and that the ACTS cannot fly with a negative capacity margin. Dynamic tests of the ACTS show the effects of the configuration on the achievable accelerations.

Title: Adaptive Control of Aerobatic Quadrotor Maneuvers in the Presence of Propeller-Aerodynamic-Coefficient and Torque-Latency Time-Variations
Key Words: adaptive control  aerodynamics  aerospace propulsion  aircraft control  autonomous aerial vehicles  control nonlinearities  control system synthesis  helicopters  least squares approximations  linear systems  momentum  time-varying systems  torque control  aerobatic flight  time-varying torque generation  propeller-aerodynamic-coefficient  torque-latency time-variations  momentum-theory-based analysis  dynamic linear time-varying description  flyer  backstepping controller  time-varying dynamics  aerobatic quadrotor  adaptive control  robot  LTV  recursive least-squares estimation  Pugachev's Cobras  triple flips  aerial vehicle  Rotors  Aerodynamics  Vehicle dynamics  Torque  Propellers  Analytical models  Robots 
Abstract: We present a study of the dynamics and control of a 28-gram quadrotor during the execution of aerobatic maneuvers in the presence of propeller-aerodynamic-coefficient and torque-latency time-variations. First, through a momentum-theory-based analysis of the flow field surrounding the robot during aerobatic flight, we develop a dynamic linear time-varying (LTV) description of the torque acting on the flyer in which both considered effects explicitly appear as distinct mathematical terms. Then, an adaptive control scheme, composed of a backstepping controller and a modified recursive least-squares (RLS) estimator, is designed to counteract the negative effects produced by the time-varying dynamics of the torque that drives the flyer. The suitability and efficacy of the proposed methods are demonstrated through real-time flight experiments in which the quadrotor autonomously performs three different types of aerobatic maneuvers: triple flips, Pugachev's Cobras and mixed flips. Furthermore, analyses of the experimental data compellingly show that the proposed control scheme consistently improves the performance of the aerial vehicle during aerobatic flight, compared to those achieved by using a high-performance linear time-invariant (LTI) controller that does not account for time-varying torque generation.

Title: Fast Terminal Sliding Mode Super Twisting Controller For Position And Altitude Tracking of the Quadrotor
Key Words: attitude control  autonomous aerial vehicles  closed loop systems  control system synthesis  helicopters  Lyapunov methods  nonlinear control systems  position control  stability  variable structure systems  fast terminal sliding mode super twisting controller  altitude tracking  nonlinear fast terminal sliding manifold  super twisting reaching law  quadrotor position  FTSMSTC design  chattering phenomena  Lyapunov stability theory  MATLAB simulation  DJI Matrice M100  complete closed loop system stability  Convergence  Manifolds  Attitude control  Stability analysis  Sliding mode control  Trajectory  Backstepping 
Abstract: This paper proposes a fast terminal sliding mode super twisting controller (FTSMSTC) design for quadrotor position and altitude tracking in the presence of bounded disturbances. A nonlinear fast terminal sliding manifold has been proposed for fast convergence of the tracking error to zero in finite time unlike the conventional sliding mode control (CSMC) that guarantee only asymptotic convergence of the tracking error. The super twisting reaching law has been proposed to deal with the chattering phenomena, which is inherent in the CSMC. The finite time stability of the complete closed loop system is investigated using Lyapunov stability theory and an analytical expression for the convergence time has also been derived. The effectiveness of the designed controller is checked against the CSMC using MATLAB simulation. The controller has been experimentally validated using the DJI Matrice M100 as a proof of utility in real time applications.

Title: Multirotor dynamics based online scale estimation for monocular SLAM
Key Words: autonomous aerial vehicles  cameras  helicopters  image sensors  Kalman filters  mobile robots  nonlinear filters  observability  robot vision  SLAM (robots)  observability  online scale estimation  extended Kalman filter framework  multirotor dynamics model  monocular camera  metric sensor  conventional scale estimation methods  monocular SLAM  monocular vision  Cameras  Observability  Drag  Estimation  Force  Mathematical model  Vehicle dynamics 
Abstract: This paper proposes a novel method to estimate the scale online for monocular SLAM. Unlike conventional scale estimation methods that require a metric sensor such as an IMU and apriori knowledge of its biases, this approach estimates the scale online by solely using the monocular camera and multirotor dynamics model in an extended Kalman Filter framework. Further, we discuss the observability of scale and theoretically show that the scale becomes observable when multirotor dynamics model and monocular vision are used in conjunction. We validate our proposition with extensive experimentation on the local as well as on the standard datasets and compare the same with other state of the art methods.

Title: Real Time Dense Depth Estimation by Fusing Stereo with Sparse Depth Measurements
Key Words: image fusion  image matching  stereo image processing  sparse depth measurements  stereo pair  sparse range measurements  LIDAR sensor  range camera  sensor modalities  randomly sampled ground truth range measurements  sparse depth input  PMDTec Monstar sensor  stereo information  stereo images  real time dense depth estimation  anisotropic diffusion  semi-global matching  frequency 5.0 Hz  Robot sensing systems  Estimation  Laser radar  Cameras  Pipelines  Three-dimensional displays  Gray-scale 
Abstract: We present an approach to depth estimation that fuses information from a stereo pair with sparse range measurements derived from a LIDAR sensor or a range camera. The goal of this work is to exploit the complementary strengths of the two sensor modalities, the accurate but sparse range measurements and the ambiguous but dense stereo information. These two sources are effectively and efficiently fused by combining ideas from anisotropic diffusion and semi-global matching.We evaluate our approach on the KITTI 2015 and Middlebury 2014 datasets, using randomly sampled ground truth range measurements as our sparse depth input. We achieve significant performance improvements with a small fraction of range measurements on both datasets. We also provide qualitative results from our platform using the PMDTec Monstar sensor. Our entire pipeline runs on an NVIDIA TX-2 platform at 5Hz on 1280×1024 stereo images with 128 disparity levels.

Title: Vision-based Control of a Quadrotor in User Proximity: Mediated vs End-to-End Learning Approaches
Key Words: autonomous aerial vehicles  helicopters  learning (artificial intelligence)  robot vision  state estimation  vision-based control  quadrotor  onboard camera  control signals  high-level state estimation  learning approaches  Task analysis  Drones  Robot sensing systems  Training  Cameras  Computer architecture 
Abstract: We consider the task of controlling a quadrotor to hover in front of a freely moving user, using input data from an onboard camera. On this specific task we compare two widespread learning paradigms: a mediated approach, which learns a high-level state from the input and then uses it for deriving control signals; and an end-to-end approach, which skips high-level state estimation altogether. We show that despite their fundamental difference, both approaches yield equivalent performance on this task. We finally qualitatively analyze the behavior of a quadrotor implementing such approaches.

Title: Parity-Based Diagnosis in UAVs: Detectability and Robustness Analyses
Key Words: autonomous aerial vehicles  fault diagnosis  particle swarm optimisation  robust control  real flight data  parity-based methodologies  parity-based diagnosis  particle swarm optimization  static residuals  robustness metrics  robustness analyses  detectability  nonlinear residual generators  fault diagnosis  UAV model  fault detection system  dynamic residuals  Mathematical model  Robustness  Generators  Measurement  Numerical models  Atmospheric modeling  Unmanned aerial vehicles 
Abstract: Parity-Based methodologies for fault diagnosis in UAVs often result in nonlinear residual generators. Still, a systematic framework to perform detectability and robustness analyses of residual generators does not exist. In this work, detectability and robustness metrics for static and dynamic residuals are presented, while numerical methods, specifically Particle Swarm Optimization, are employed to calculate them. The results are used to characterize the performance of a fault detection system. An application on a UAV model is shown, based on real flight data.

Title: Exploiting a Human-Aware World Model for Dynamic Task Allocation in Flexible Human-Robot Teams
Key Words: cameras  human-robot interaction  mobile robots  motion control  multi-robot systems  robot vision  human participation  human models  human-robot teaming framework  human-aware world model  dynamic task allocation  human-robot teams  human-robot cooperation  eye-in-hand camera images  task operations  trust measure  action selection algorithm  Task analysis  Resource management  Cameras  Robot kinematics  Robot sensing systems  Dynamic scheduling 
Abstract: We propose a highly flexible approach to human-robot cooperation, where a robot dynamically selects operations contributing to a shared goal from a given task model. Therefore, knowledge on the task progress is extracted from a world model constructed from eye-in-hand camera images. Data generated from such partial workspace observations is not reliable over time, as humans may interact with resources. We therefore use a human-aware world model maintaining a measure for trust in stored objects regarding recent human presence and previous task progress. Our contribution is an action selection algorithm that uses this trust measure to interleave task operations with active vision to refresh the world model. Large-scale experiments cover various sorts of human participation in different benchmark tasks through simulation of simplified, partially randomized human models. Results illuminate system behaviour and performance for different parametrizations of our human-robot teaming framework.

Title: Group Surfing: A Pedestrian-Based Approach to Sidewalk Robot Navigation
Key Words: collision avoidance  edge detection  human-robot interaction  mobile robots  navigation  pedestrians  traffic engineering computing  pedestrian-based approach  sidewalk robot navigation  mobile robots  pedestrian-rich sidewalk environments  pedestrian-shared space  indoor spaces  pedestrian movement  linear flows  opposing directions  pedestrians  random movements  safe navigation  sidewalk space  natural human motion  socially-compliant manner  group surfing method  optimal pedestrian group  pedestrian-sparse environments  sidewalk edge detection  following method  integrated navigation stack  Navigation  Collision avoidance  Robot kinematics  Roads  Legged locomotion 
Abstract: In this paper, we propose a novel navigation system for mobile robots in pedestrian-rich sidewalk environments. Sidewalks are unique in that the pedestrian-shared space has characteristics of both roads and indoor spaces. Like vehicles on roads, pedestrian movement often manifests as linear flows in opposing directions. On the other hand, pedestrians also form crowds and can exhibit much more random movements than vehicles. Classical algorithms are insufficient for safe navigation around pedestrians and remaining on the sidewalk space. Thus, our approach takes advantage of natural human motion to allow a robot to adapt to sidewalk navigation in a safe and socially-compliant manner. We developed a group surfing method which aims to imitate the optimal pedestrian group for bringing the robot closer to its goal. For pedestrian-sparse environments, we propose a sidewalk edge detection and following method. Underlying these two navigation methods, the collision avoidance scheme is human-aware. The integrated navigation stack is evaluated and demonstrated in simulation. A hardware demonstration is also presented.

Title: Dentronics: Review, First Concepts and Pilot Study of a New Application Domain for Collaborative Robots in Dental Assistance
Key Words: dentistry  human-robot interaction  medical robotics  dentronics  new application domain  collaborative robots  dental assistance  multimodal interaction framework  Dentistry  Robots  Task analysis  Reliability  Prototypes  Standards  Collision avoidance 
Abstract: In this paper we introduce dentronics as a new emerging application domain for collaborative lightweight robots in the dental context backed up by a user survey supporting the clear need. Specifically, we developed a multi-modal interaction framework, applied this framework to a specific dental use-case, and conducted a preliminary user-study for evaluation. Our results demonstrate usability and feasibility beyond a controlled experimental setup. We conclude that dentronics is indeed within reach given today's technology and deserves further investigation towards clinical use.

Title: Activity recognition in manufacturing: The roles of motion capture and sEMG+inertial wearables in detecting fine vs. gross motion
Key Words: assembling  feature extraction  human-robot interaction  image classification  image motion analysis  industrial robots  manufacturing systems  production engineering computing  sensor fusion  wearable computers  unimodal sensor data  UCSD-MIT Human Motion dataset  Vicon motion capture system  gross motion recognition  sensor modalities  sEMG  human activity recognition  inertial wearables  fine motion detection  manufacturing  safety-critical environments  assembly tasks  HAR algorithms  Robot sensing systems  Task analysis  Wearable sensors  Grasping  Automotive engineering  Tracking 
Abstract: In safety-critical environments, robots need to reliably recognize human activity to be effective and trust-worthy partners. Since most human activity recognition (HAR) approaches rely on unimodal sensor data (e.g. motion capture or wearable sensors), it is unclear how the relationship between the sensor modality and motion granularity (e.g. gross or fine) of the activities impacts classification accuracy. To our knowledge, we are the first to investigate the efficacy of using motion capture as compared to wearable sensor data for recognizing human motion in manufacturing settings. We introduce the UCSD-MIT Human Motion dataset, composed of two assembly tasks that entail either gross or fine-grained motion. For both tasks, we compared the accuracy of a Vicon motion capture system to a Myo armband using three widely used HAR algorithms. We found that motion capture yielded higher accuracy than the wearable sensor for gross motion recognition (up to 36.95%), while the wearable sensor yielded higher accuracy for fine-grained motion (up to 28.06%). These results suggest that these sensor modalities are complementary, and that robots may benefit from systems that utilize multiple modalities to simultaneously, but independently, detect gross and fine-grained motion. Our findings will help guide researchers in numerous fields of robotics including learning from demonstration and grasping to effectively choose sensor modalities that are most suitable for their applications.

Title: Optimal Proactive Path Planning for Collaborative Robots in Industrial Contexts
Key Words: collision avoidance  industrial manipulators  mobile robots  motion control  path planning  motion controllers  production plants  optimal proactive path planning  Industry 4.0  ABB YuMi  industrial contexts  collaborative robots  7 degrees robotic arm  human operator  robotic paths  proactive approach  local corrective actions  safe motion planning strategies  Trajectory  Service robots  Probabilistic logic  Computational modeling  Collaboration  Task analysis 
Abstract: The coexistence of humans and robots in the future production plants is one of the pillars of Industry 4.0. Humans and robots will collaborate to accomplish common tasks in order to mutually compensate their deficiencies. In recent years, many efforts have been spent to develop safe motion planning strategies, designed to prevent robots from injuring humans. Most of the previous techniques are classifiable as reactive, since the considered motion controllers impose some local corrective actions in order to dodge the space occupied by the human. In this paper, a proactive approach is adopted, optimizing robotic paths according to a prediction of the volume occupied by the human when collaborating with the robot. The validity of the approach is shown in a realistic use-case involving the collaboration of a human operator with a 7 degrees robotic arm, the ABB YuMi.

Title: Build your own hybrid thermal/EO camera for autonomous vehicle
Key Words: cameras  image colour analysis  image motion analysis  image registration  image resolution  image sensors  image sequences  object detection  remotely operated vehicles  single hybrid camera  hybrid camera array  disparity images  spatial-alignment  autonomous vehicle  thermal RGB frames  thermal EO cameras  pixel-wise spatial registration  visible-light camera  hybrid thermal/EO camera  RGB frames  constant homography warping  image modalities  Cameras  Layout  Technological innovation  Tuners  Optical sensors  Autonomous vehicles 
Abstract: In this work, we propose a novel paradigm to design a hybrid thermal/EO (Electro-Optical or visible-light) camera, whose thermal and RGB frames are pixel-wisely aligned and temporally synchronized. Compared with the existing schemes, we innovate in three ways in order to make it more compact in dimension, and thus more practical and extendable for real-world applications. The first is a redesign of the structure layout of the thermal and EO cameras. The second is on obtaining a pixel-wise spatial registration of the thermal and RGB frames by a coarse mechanical adjustment and a fine alignment through a constant homography warping. The third innovation is on extending one single hybrid camera to a hybrid camera array, through which we can obtain wide-view spatially aligned thermal, RGB and disparity images simultaneously. The experimental results show that the average error of spatial-alignment of two image modalities can be less than one pixel.

Title: Redundant Perception and State Estimation for Reliable Autonomous Racing
Key Words: automobiles  driver information systems  image colour analysis  learning (artificial intelligence)  particle filtering (numerical methods)  pose estimation  SLAM (robots)  state estimation  vehicle dynamics  reliable autonomous racing  sensor failure  critical consequences  state estimation approaches  autonomous race car  track delimiting objects  sensor modalities  learning-based approaches  camera data  redundant perception inputs  probabilistic failure detection algorithm  real-world racing conditions  slip dynamics  particle filter based SLAM algorithm  pose estimates  velocity 90.0 km/h  Robot sensing systems  Cameras  Three-dimensional displays  Automobiles  Image color analysis  Laser radar  Reliability 
Abstract: In autonomous racing, vehicles operate close to the limits of handling and a sensor failure can have critical consequences. To limit the impact of such failures, this paper presents the redundant perception and state estimation approaches developed for an autonomous race car. Redundancy in perception is achieved by estimating the color and position of the track delimiting objects using two sensor modalities independently. Specifically, learning-based approaches are used to generate color and pose estimates, from LiDAR and camera data respectively. The redundant perception inputs are fused by a particle filter based SLAM algorithm that operates in real-time. Velocity is estimated using slip dynamics, with reliability being ensured through a probabilistic failure detection algorithm. The sub-modules are extensively evaluated in real-world racing conditions using the autonomous race car gotthard driverless, achieving lateral accelerations up to 1. 7G and a top speed of 90km/h.

Title: UWB/LiDAR Fusion For Cooperative Range-Only SLAM
Key Words: distance measurement  laser ranging  mobile robots  optical radar  SLAM (robots)  ultra wideband radar  wireless sensor networks  cooperative sensor network  2D LiDAR sensor  UWB-LiDAR fusion  UWB beacon nodes  peer-to-peer ranges  nearby objects-obstacles  surrounding environment  drift-free SLAM  mobile robot  2D laser rangefinder  ultra-wideband node  cooperative range-only SLAM  LiDAR-based SLAM algorithm  UWB ranging measurements  UWB-only localization accuracy  LiDAR mapping  laser scanning information  Laser radar  Peer-to-peer computing  Distance measurement  Simultaneous localization and mapping  Two dimensional displays 
Abstract: We equip an ultra-wideband (UWB) node and a 2D LiDAR sensor a.k.a. 2D laser rangefinder on a mobile robot, and place UWB beacon nodes at unknown locations in an unknown environment. All UWB nodes can do ranging with each other thus forming a cooperative sensor network. We propose to fuse the peer-to-peer ranges measured between UWB nodes and laser scanning information, i.e., range measured between robot and nearby objects/obstacles, for simultaneous localization of the robot, all UWB beacons and LiDAR mapping. The fusion is inspired by two facts: 1) LiDAR may improve UWB-only localization accuracy as it gives a more precise and comprehensive picture of the surrounding environment; 2) on the other hand, UWB ranging measurements may remove the error accumulated in the LiDAR-based SLAM algorithm. Our experiments demonstrate that UWB/LiDAR fusion enables drift-free SLAM in real-time based on ranging measurements only.

Title: Localization and Tracking of Uncontrollable Underwater Agents: Particle Filter Based Fusion of On-Body IMUs and Stationary Cameras
Key Words: cameras  fuzzy set theory  marine control  multi-agent systems  object tracking  particle filtering (numerical methods)  nonlinear agent dynamics  sparse camera observations  robust agent localization  uncontrollable underwater agents  stationary cameras  multiagent control  multiagent tracking problem  wearable sensors  uncontrollable biological agents  camera detections  on-body IMUs  fuzzy observation concept  nonGaussian noise  particle filter based fusion  Cameras  Two dimensional displays  Tracking  Wearable sensors  Three-dimensional displays  Robot sensing systems  Particle filters 
Abstract: Tracking of uncontrollable agents in a controlled environment is an important research question for the coordination of controllable and uncontrollable agents and bio-inspired multi-agent control. This paper presents a framework that approaches the multiagent tracking problem from a localization perspective, utilizing a combination of wearable sensors and stationary cameras. Specifically, this framework was applied to localize uncontrollable biological agents (dolphins) in a well defined environment. The biological agents were outfitted with wearable sensors (IMU, speed, depth) and were free to move in their three dimensional habitat. The dynamic data collected by the wearable sensors was supplemented with image data collected using a pair of cameras mounted above the habitat. The framework presented in this paper combines data from these sensor streams to calculate an accurate estimate of the animal's location during extended periods of free movement. The associations between camera detections and tagged agents are handled using a particle filter embedded with a fuzzy observation concept. The platform is readily implementable in similar water / land environments, and is able to handle nonlinear agent dynamics, non-Gaussian noise, and sparse camera observations while maintaining robust agent localization and tracking.

Title: Steering Co-centered and Co-directional Optical and Acoustic Beams with a Water-immersible MEMS Scanning Mirror for Underwater Ranging and Communication*
Key Words: beam steering  integrated optics  laser beams  laser ranging  micromechanical devices  micromirrors  microsensors  optical communication equipment  photodetectors  remotely operated vehicles  underwater optics  underwater vehicles  Hall effect  reception modes  transmission modes  underwater ranging and communication  steering co-directional optical beams  steering co-directional acoustic beams  steering co-centered laser beams  steering co-centered ultrasonic beams  steering co-directional ultrasonic beams  steering co-directional laser beams  steering co-centered acoustic beams  steering co-centered optical beams  bi-modal communication  scan position sensors  ultrasound beams  water-immersible MEMS scanning mirror  Laser beams  Ultrasonic imaging  Mirrors  Acoustic beams  Optical beams  Optical sensors 
Abstract: This paper reports the development of a compact optical-acoustic frontend module for underwater communication and ranging. The module is enabled by a new water-immersible MEMS scanning mirror (WIMSM). It is capable of transmitting, receiving and steering co-centered and co-directional laser and ultrasound beams under water. To monitor its rotating angle in real time, scan position sensors based on Hall effect have been integrated into the WIMSM. The angular alignment of the laser and ultrasound beams in both transmission and reception modes has been examined. The experimental results show that the laser and ultrasound beams can remain aligned with less than 2.1 degrees under envelope of pan and tilt rotations. This capability is critical for the continuing development of the new bi-modal communication and ranging underwater Vehicles (AUVs).

Title: A Simple Adaptive Tracker with Reminiscences
Key Words: convex programming  gradient methods  learning (artificial intelligence)  object detection  object tracking  VOT benchmark dataset  OTB benchmark dataset  gradient-based convex optimization  MTCF  appearance changes  adaptive tracker  temporal windows  base trackers  ensemble method  visual object tracking  correlation filters  reminiscences  visual appearance  video history  Correlation  Visualization  Object tracking  History  Standards  Convolution  Training 
Abstract: Correlation filters have provided exceptional results in the field of visual object tracking in the past few years. However, these methods typically learn a single filter to be robust to many different appearance changes, which can be challenging. We propose a simple solution to this problem by utilizing an ensemble method of base trackers trained on different temporal windows of the video history. The proposed tracker, called MTCF, exhibits the following features: i) it can be trained using gradient-based convex optimization; ii) it is robust to short-term and long-term changes in visual appearance. MTCF performs on par with or outperforms state-of-the-art trackers on the OTB and the VOT benchmark datasets. We present an extensive analysis of the performance of MTCF on these benchmark datasets.

Title: Learning-driven Coarse-to-Fine Articulated Robot Tracking
Key Words: computer vision  edge detection  image colour analysis  image sequences  learning (artificial intelligence)  manipulators  object tracking  coarse-to-fine articulated robot tracking  articulated tracking approach  robotic manipulators  visual cues  subpixel-level accurate correspondences  discriminative depth information  coarse-to-fine articulated state estimator  robot state distribution  depth image  Schunk SDH2 hand interacting  edge tracking  depth keypoints  articulated model fitting  colour edge correspondences  RGB-D sequences  KUICA LWR arm  palm position estimation  Visualization  Optimization  Manipulators  Image edge detection  Two dimensional displays  Robot sensing systems 
Abstract: In this work we present an articulated tracking approach for robotic manipulators, which relies only on visual cues from colour and depth images to estimate the robot's state when interacting with or being occluded by its environment. We hypothesise that articulated model fitting approaches can only achieve accurate tracking if subpixel-level accurate correspondences between observed and estimated state can be established. Previous work in this area has exclusively relied on either discriminative depth information or colour edge correspondences as tracking objective and required initialisation from joint encoders. In this paper we propose a coarse-to-fine articulated state estimator, which relies only on visual cues from colour edges and learned depth keypoints, and which is initialised from a robot state distribution predicted from a depth image. We evaluate our approach on four RGB-D sequences showing a KUICA LWR arm with a Schunk SDH2 hand interacting with its environment and demonstrate that this combined keypoint and edge tracking objective can estimate the palm position with an average error of 2. 5cm without using any joint encoder sensing.

Title: Diagonally-Decoupled Direct Visual Servoing
Key Words: observers  robot vision  visual servoing  diagonally-decoupled direct visual servoing  vision-based robot control  reference image  intensity-based nonmetric solutions  fully coupled control error dynamics  translational part  lower triangular system  system dynamics  analysis complexity  system performance  nonlinear observer  rotational part  decoupling properties  robotic arm  control error dynamics  Visual servoing  Cameras  Convergence  Observers  Transmission line matrix methods  Voltage control 
Abstract: This paper addresses the problem of vision-based robot control where a reference image defines the equilibrium. Specifically, we consider the class of intensity-based nonmetric solutions, which provide for high accuracy, versatility, and robustness. Existing techniques within that class present either a fully coupled control error dynamics or at best only achieve decoupling of the translational part, i.e., they can only obtain a lower triangular system. These couplings in the system dynamics increase analysis complexity and may degrade system performance. This work proposes a new nonlinear observer for also decoupling the rotational part, i.e., for diagonally decoupling the entire control error dynamics. Theoretical proofs of stability and of those decoupling properties are provided. Improved performances are also experimentally confirmed using synthetic and real data, planar and nonplanar objects, simulating and applying a camera-mounted 6-DoF robotic arm.

Title: 2D LiDAR Map Prediction via Estimating Motion Flow with GRU
Key Words: feature extraction  image sequences  learning (artificial intelligence)  motion estimation  optical radar  radar imaging  recurrent neural nets  LiDAR-FlowNet model  motion flow based method  2D LiDAR map prediction  optical flow  recurrent neural network  motion flow estimation  gated recurrent unit  robotics navigation  path planning  Laser radar  Two dimensional displays  Dynamics  Logic gates  Recurrent neural networks  Training  Robot sensing systems 
Abstract: It is a significant problem to predict the 2D LiDAR map at next moment for robotics navigation and path-planning. To tackle this problem, we resort to the motion flow between adjacent maps, as motion flow is a powerful tool to process and analyze the dynamic data, which is named optical flow in video processing. However, unlike video, which contains abundant visual features in each frame, a 2D LiDAR map lacks distinctive local features. To alleviate this challenge, we propose to estimate the motion flow based on deep neural networks inspired by its powerful representation learning ability in estimating the optical flow of the video. To this end, we design a recurrent neural network based on gated recurrent unit, which is named LiDAR-FlowNet. As a recurrent neural network can encode the temporal dynamic information, our LiDAR-FlowNet can estimate motion flow between the current map and the unknown next map only from the current frame and previous frames. A self-supervised strategy is further designed to train the LiDAR-FlowNet model effectively, while no training data need to be manually annotated. With the estimated motion flow, it is straightforward to predict the 2D LiDAR map at the next moment. Experimental results verify the effectiveness of our LiDAR-FlowNet as well as the proposed training strategy. The results of the predicted LiDAR map also show the advantages of our motion flow based method.

Title: Robot eye-hand coordination learning by watching human demonstrations: a task function approximation approach
Key Words: feedback  function approximation  learning (artificial intelligence)  manipulators  robot vision  visual servoing  human demonstrations  task function approximation approach  robot eye-hand coordination learning method  visual task specification  inverse reinforcement learning  learned reward model  uncalibrated visual servoing  hand-engineered task specification  traditional UVS controller  learned policy  robot platforms  Task analysis  Robot kinematics  Videos  Training  Visualization  Visual servoing 
Abstract: We present a robot eye-hand coordination learning method that can directly learn visual task specification by watching human demonstrations. Task specification is represented as a task function, which is learned using inverse reinforcement learning(IRL [1]) by inferring a reward model from state transitions. The learned reward model is then used as continuous feedbacks in an uncalibrated visual servoing(UVS [2]) controller designed for the execution phase. Our proposed method can directly learn from raw videos, which removes the need for hand-engineered task specification. Benefiting from the use of a traditional UVS controller, the training on real robot only happens at initial Jacobian estimation which takes an average of 4-7 seconds for a new task. Besides, the learned policy is independent from a particular robot, thus has the potential of fast adapting to other robot platforms. Various experiments were designed to show that, for a task with certain DOFs, our method can adapt to task/environment changes in target positions, backgrounds, illuminations, and occlusions.

Title: Vision-Based Dynamic Control of Car-Like Mobile Robots
Key Words: automobiles  Lyapunov methods  mobile robots  robot vision  stability  steering systems  velocity control  car-like mobile robots  CLMR  steering control system  slipping effects  velocity estimation error  speed tracking error  vision-based dynamic control  visual algorithm  skidding effects  speed control system  Lyapunov method  stability  electric autonomous tractor  Aerodynamics  Mobile robots  Velocity measurement  Estimation  Heuristic algorithms 
Abstract: Most existing controllers for Car-Like Mobile Robots (CLMR) are designed to handle dynamic effects by decoupling speed and steering controls, also assume that full states are accessible, which are unrealistic for real-world applications. This paper presents a combined speed and steering control system for CLMR. To provide the essential state for the controller, a newly developed visual algorithm is adopted for estimating the high-update rate longitudinal and lateral velocities of the robot which cannot be accurately measured by wheel encoders due to the skidding and slipping effects. The stability of the proposed system can be guaranteed by Lyapunov method since the velocity estimation error, the speed tracking error and the lateral deviation converging to zero simultaneously. Real-world experiments are conducted on an electric autonomous tractor with online estimation to demonstrate the feasibility of the approach.

Title: Uncertainty Estimation for Projecting Lidar Points onto Camera Images for Moving Platforms
Key Words: calibration  cameras  distance measurement  optical radar  radar imaging  heterogeneous sensors  lidar sensors  precise range information  visual image data  context based algorithms  intrinsic calibration  extrinsic calibration  lidar measurements  consistent odometry frame  image frame  moving platforms  projection error  motion correction algorithm  extended uncertainty model  real-world data  wide-angle cameras  16-beam scanning lidar  uncertainty estimation  lidar points  camera images  advanced perception  crucial requirement  autonomous vehicle navigation  sensor frames  Laser radar  Cameras  Calibration  Uncertainty  Sensors  Distortion  Three-dimensional displays 
Abstract: Combining multiple sensors for advanced perception is a crucial requirement for autonomous vehicle navigation. Heterogeneous sensors are used to obtain rich information about the surrounding environment. The combination of the camera and lidar sensors enables precise range information that can be projected onto the visual image data. This gives a high level understanding of the scene which can be used to enable context based algorithms such as collision avoidance and navigation. The main challenge when combining these sensors is aligning the data into a common domain. This can be difficult due to the errors in the intrinsic calibration of the camera, extrinsic calibration between the camera and the lidar and errors resulting from the motion of the platform. In this paper, we examine the algorithms required to provide motion correction for scanning lidar sensors. The error resulting from the projection of the lidar measurements into a consistent odometry frame is not possible to remove entirely, and as such it is essential to incorporate the uncertainty of this projection when combining the two different sensor frames. This work proposes a novel framework for the prediction of the uncertainty of lidar measurements (in 3D) projected in to the image frame (in 2D) for moving platforms. The proposed approach fuses the uncertainty of the motion correction with uncertainty resulting from errors in the extrinsic and intrinsic calibration. By incorporating the main components of the projection error, the uncertainty of the estimation process is better represented. Experimental results for our motion correction algorithm and the proposed extended uncertainty model are demonstrated using real-world data collected on an electric vehicle equipped with wide-angle cameras covering a 180-degree field of view and a 16-beam scanning lidar.

Title: Modeling and Analysis of Motion Data from Dynamically Positioned Vessels for Sea State Estimation
Key Words: convolutional neural nets  data analysis  fast Fourier transforms  feature extraction  learning (artificial intelligence)  marine engineering  position control  recurrent neural nets  sensitivity analysis  sensor fusion  ships  state estimation  time series  long dependency  ship motion data  convolutional neural network  frequency features  feature fusion layer  raw time series data  hand-engineered features  sensitivity analysis method  data preprocessing  ship motion dataset  SeaStateNet  sea state estimation  dynamically positioned vessels  autonomous ship  deep neural network model  time-invariant feature extraction  long-short-term memory recurrent neural network  fast Fourier transform block  Sea state  Marine vehicles  Time series analysis  Estimation  Sensors  Feature extraction  Data models 
Abstract: Developing a reliable model to identify the sea state is significant for the autonomous ship. This paper introduces a novel deep neural network model (SeaStateNet) to estimate the sea state based on the ship motion data from dynamically positioned vessels. The SeaStateNet mainly consists of three components: an Long-Short-Term Memory (LSTM) recurrent neural network to capture the long dependency in the ship motion data; a convolutional neural network (CNN) to extract time-invariant features; and a Fast Fourier Transform (FFT) block to extract frequency features. A feature fusion layer is designed to learn the degree affected by each component. The proposed model is applied directly to the raw time series data, without needing of any hand-engineered features. A sensitivity analysis (SA) method is applied to assess the influence of data preprocessing. Through benchmark test and experiment on ship motion dataset, SeaStateNet is verified effective for sea state estimation. The investigation on real-time test further shows the practicality of the proposed model.

Title: Visual Localization at Intersections with Digital Maps
Key Words: computer vision  feature extraction  image reconstruction  image segmentation  neural nets  object detection  pose estimation  road vehicles  stereo image processing  traffic engineering computing  ego-vehicle localization  autonomous road driving  online vision-based method  digital map service  pixel-level semantic segmentation  intersection approaches  visual localization  deep neural networks  coarse street-level pose estimation  Roads  Three-dimensional displays  Semantics  Image segmentation  Pipelines  Geometry  Task analysis 
Abstract: This paper deals with the task of ego-vehicle localization at intersections, a significant task in autonomous road driving. We propose an online vision-based method that can hence be applied if the intersection is visible. It relies on stereo images and on a coarse street-level pose estimate, used to retrieve intersection data from a digital map service. Pixel-level semantic segmentation, and 3D reconstruction from state-of-the art Deep Neural Networks are coupled with an intersection model; this allows good positioning accuracy compared to the state-of-the-art in this task. To demonstrate the effectiveness of the method and make it possible to compare it with other methods, an extensive activity has been conducted in order to set up a dataset of approaches to an intersection, which has then been used to benchmark the proposed method. The dataset is made available to the community, and it currently includes more than forty intersection approaches, from KITTI. Another important contribution of the paper is the definition of criteria for the comparison of different methods, on recorded datasets. The proposed method achieves nearly sub-meter accuracy in difficult real conditions.

Title: Interaction-aware Multi-agent Tracking and Probabilistic Behavior Prediction via Adversarial Learning
Key Words: decision making  interactive systems  learning (artificial intelligence)  multi-agent systems  neural nets  probability  hyperparameter values  adversarial learning  interaction-aware multiagent tracking  probabilistic behavior prediction  motion planning  intelligent systems  multiple interactive agents  distribution learning  decision making  generative adversarial network  Generators  Gallium nitride  Predictive models  Training  Generative adversarial networks  State estimation  Optimization 
Abstract: In order to enable high-quality decision making and motion planning of intelligent systems such as robotics and autonomous vehicles, accurate probabilistic predictions for surrounding interactive objects is a crucial prerequisite. Although many research studies have been devoted to making predictions on a single entity, it remains an open challenge to forecast future behaviors for multiple interactive agents simultaneously. In this work, we take advantage of the Generative Adversarial Network (GAN) due to its capability of distribution learning and propose a generic multi-agent probabilistic prediction and tracking framework which takes the interactions among multiple entities into account, in which all the entities are treated as a whole. However, since GAN is very hard to train, we make an empirical research and present the relationship between training performance and hyperparameter values with a numerical case study. The results imply that the proposed model can capture both the mean, variance and multi-modalities of the groundtruth distribution. Moreover, we apply the proposed approach to a real-world task of vehicle behavior prediction to demonstrate its effectiveness and accuracy. The results illustrate that the proposed model trained by adversarial learning can achieve a better prediction performance than other state-of-the-art models trained by traditional supervised learning which maximizes the data likelihood. The well-trained model can also be utilized as an implicit proposal distribution for particle filtered based Bayesian state estimation.

Title: Model Predictive Control of Ride-sharing Autonomous Mobility-on-Demand Systems
Key Words: predictive control  road traffic control  model predictive control approach  self-driving vehicles  on-demand mobility  time-expanded network flow model  real-time MPC algorithm  customer-carrying vehicles  social welfare  RAMoD system  ride-sharing autonomous mobility-on-demand systems  empty vehicle  customer-carrying vehicle  San Francisco  CA  Roads  Automobiles  Prediction algorithms  Artificial neural networks  Analytical models  Optimization  Predictive models 
Abstract: This paper presents a model predictive control (MPC) approach to optimize routes for Ride-sharing Autonomous Mobility-on-Demand (RAMoD) systems, whereby self-driving vehicles provide coordinated on-demand mobility, possibly allowing multiple customers to share a ride. Specifically, we first devise a time-expanded network flow model for RAMoD. Second, leveraging this model, we design a real-time MPC algorithm to optimize the routes of both empty and customer-carrying vehicles, with the goal of optimizing social welfare, namely, a weighted combination of customers' travel time and vehicles' mileage. Finally, we present a real-world case study for the city of San Francisco, CA, by using the micro-scopic traffic simulator MATSim. The simulation results show that a RAMoD system can significantly improve social welfare with respect to a single-occupancy Autonomous Mobility-on-Demand (AMoD) system, and that the predictive structure of the proposed MPC controller allows it to outperform existing reactive ride-sharing coordination algorithms for RAMoD.

Title: A Hierarchical Framework for Coordinating Large-Scale Robot Networks
Key Words: collision avoidance  mobile robots  motion control  multi-robot systems  road traffic control  hierarchical framework  large-scale robot networks  motion coordination problems  multirobot system  robotic warehouses  automated transportation systems  life-long planning problem  coordination performance  robot motion uncertainties  hierarchical path planning  motion coordination structure  traffic heat-map  path planning level  sector-level path  path distance  motion coordination level  collision-free local path  rolling planning manner  traffic condition  robot uncertainty  Robot kinematics  Path planning  Task analysis  Collision avoidance  Planning  Topology 
Abstract: In this paper, we study the cooperative path planning and motion coordination problems of the multi-robot system with large number of robots, aiming for practical applications in robotic warehouses and automated transportation systems. Particularly, we solve the life-long planning problem and guarantee the coordination performance in the presence of robot motion uncertainties. A hierarchical path planning and motion coordination structure is presented. The environment is divided into several sectors and a traffic heat-map is presented to describe the current sector-level traffic condition. In path planning level, the sector-level path is calculated by considering the path distance, the current traffic condition and the current robot uncertainty. In motion coordination level, local cooperative A* algorithm and conflict-based searching strategy are utilized within each sector to generate the collision-free local path of each robot in a rolling planning manner. The effectiveness and practical applicability of the proposed approach are validated by simulations with more than one thousand robots and real experiments.

Title: EasyLabel: A Semi-Automatic Pixel-wise Object Annotation Tool for Creating Robotic RGB-D Datasets
Key Words: feature extraction  image colour analysis  image segmentation  mobile robots  object detection  object recognition  robot vision  video signal processing  object segmentation methods  object-wise annotation  robot vision  OCID  robots face  robot perception systems  computer vision algorithms  expected operating domain  ground truth data  EasyLabel tool  high-quality ground truth annotation  pixel-level  densely cluttered scenes  semiautomatic process  complex scenes  sensor  scene distance  robotic RGB-d datasets  object masks  object cluttered indoor dataset  Robots  Three-dimensional displays  Tools  Object segmentation  Clutter  Image segmentation  Task analysis 
Abstract: Developing robot perception systems for recognizing objects in the real world requires computer vision algorithms to be carefully scrutinized with respect to the expected operating domain. This demands large quantities of ground truth data to rigorously evaluate the performance of algorithms. This paper presents the EasyLabel tool for easily acquiring high-quality ground truth annotation of objects at pixel-level in densely cluttered scenes. In a semi-automatic process, complex scenes are incrementally built and EasyLabel exploits depth changes to extract precise object masks at each step. We use this tool to generate the Object Cluttered Indoor Dataset (OCID) that captures diverse settings of objects, background, context, sensor to scene distance, viewpoint angle and lighting conditions. OCID is used to perform a systematic comparison of existing object segmentation methods. The baseline comparison supports the need for pixel- and object-wise annotation to progress robot vision towards realistic applications. This insight reveals the usefulness of EasyLabel and OCID to better understand the challenges that robots face in the real world.

Title: BLVD: Building A Large-scale 5D Semantics Benchmark for Autonomous Driving
Key Words: image segmentation  object detection  robot vision  stereo image processing  autonomous driving community  large-scale dataset platform  large-scale 5D semantics benchmark  3D+temporal  4D+interactive  5D interactive event recognition  5D intention prediction  dynamic 4D tracking  Three-dimensional displays  Benchmark testing  Trajectory  Roads  Task analysis  Semantics  Legged locomotion 
Abstract: In autonomous driving community, numerous benchmarks have been established to assist the tasks of 3D/2D object detection, stereo vision, semantic/instance segmentation. However, the more meaningful dynamic evolution of the surrounding objects of ego-vehicle is rarely exploited, and lacks a large-scale dataset platform. To address this, we introduce BLVD, a large-scale 5D semantics benchmark which does not concentrate on the static detection or semantic/instance segmentation tasks tackled adequately before. Instead, BLVD aims to provide a platform for the tasks of dynamic 4D (3D+temporal) tracking, 5D (4D+interactive) interactive event recognition and intention prediction. This benchmark will boost the deeper understanding of traffic scenes than ever before. We totally yield 249, 129 3D annotations, 4, 902 independent individuals for tracking with the length of overall 214, 922 points, 6, 004 valid fragments for 5D interactive event recognition, and 4, 900 individuals for 5D intention prediction. These tasks are contained in four kinds of scenarios depending on the object density (low and high) and light conditions (daytime and nighttime). The benchmark can be downloaded from our project site https://github.com/VCCIV/BLVD/.

Title: A Benchmarking Framework for Systematic Evaluation of Robotic Pick-and-Place Systems in an Industrial Grocery Setting
Key Words: end effectors  industrial manipulators  materials handling equipment  path planning  robot vision  benchmarking framework  industrial grocery setting  robotic manipulation  industrial robotic applications  robotic solution  industrial setting  motion planning  pick-and-place operations  pick-and-place task  object placement  end-effectors  robotic pick-and-place systems  Benchmark testing  Task analysis  Service robots  Grasping  Protocols  System performance 
Abstract: Robotic manipulation is a very active field of research nowadays; however, pick-and-place operations constitute the majority of today's industrial robotic applications. In order to adopt a robotic solution for an industrial setting, proper evaluation processes should be defined to assess the system's performance. A number of benchmarks have been proposed in the literature focusing mainly on individual components needed to perform the task, like grasping, perception and motion planning; thus, they do not provide enough information on the performance of the entire robotic system. To address this, we propose a benchmarking framework for a pick-and-place task inspired by a use case for picking fruits and vegetables in an industrial setting. To foster reproducible research and comparison of different robotic systems, the benchmarking framework uses surrogate objects with instructions on how to build them, an easy-to-reproduce environment, and guidelines for object placement. The proposed benchmark is applied to evaluate the performance of two variants of a robotic system with different end-effectors.

Title: Characterizing Visual Localization and Mapping Datasets
Key Words: motion estimation  rendering (computer graphics)  SLAM (robots)  Wasserstein distance  motion estimation algorithm  robotics SLAM benchmarking  visual localization  mapping algorithms  real-world trajectories  high-quality scenes  synthetic datasets  dense map  key SLAM applications  ground robotics  mapping datasets  motion estimation algorithms  computer vision  Simultaneous localization and mapping  Trajectory  Time measurement  Visualization  Benchmark testing 
Abstract: Benchmarking mapping and motion estimation algorithms is established practice in robotics and computer vision. As the diversity of datasets increases, in terms of the trajectories, models, and scenes, it becomes a challenge to select datasets for a given benchmarking purpose. Inspired by the Wasserstein distance, this paper addresses this concern by developing novel metrics to evaluate trajectories and the environments without relying on any SLAM or motion estimation algorithm. The metrics, which so far have been missing in the research community, can be applied to the plethora of datasets that exist. Additionally, to improve the robotics SLAM benchmarking, the paper presents a new dataset for visual localization and mapping algorithms. A broad range of real-world trajectories is used in very high-quality scenes and a rendering framework to create a set of synthetic datasets with ground-truth trajectory and dense map which are representative of key SLAM applications such as virtual reality (VR), micro aerial vehicle (MAV) flight, and ground robotics.

Title: Quantifying the Reality Gap in Robotic Manipulation Tasks
Key Words: image motion analysis  manipulators  mobile robots  robot vision  robotic manipulation tasks  Kinova robotic manipulator  motion capture system  manipulation-oriented robotic tasks  robotic reaching task  robotic interaction task  quantitative data  Physics  Engines  Task analysis  Hardware  Manipulators  Computational modeling 
Abstract: We quantify the accuracy of various simulators compared to a real world robotic reaching and interaction task. Simulators are used in robotics to design solutions for real world hardware without the need for physical access. The `reality gap' prevents solutions developed or learnt in simulation from performing well, or at all, when transferred to real-world hardware. Making use of a Kinova robotic manipulator and a motion capture system, we record a ground truth enabling comparisons with various simulators, and present quantitative data for various manipulation-oriented robotic tasks. We show the relative strengths and weaknesses of numerous contemporary simulators, highlighting areas of significant discrepancy, and assisting researchers in the field in their selection of appropriate simulators for their use cases.

Title: Are We Ready for Autonomous Drone Racing? The UZH-FPV Drone Racing Dataset
Key Words: helicopters  image capture  image sensors  image sequences  motion estimation  remotely operated vehicles  video cameras  UZH-FPV Drone Racing dataset  first-person-view racing quadrotor  state estimation algorithms  autonomous Drone Racing  visual-inertial state estimation  motion estimation  Drones  Optical imaging  Cameras  Trajectory  Optical sensors  Measurement  High-speed optical techniques 
Abstract: Despite impressive results in visual-inertial state estimation in recent years, high speed trajectories with six degree of freedom motion remain challenging for existing estimation algorithms. Aggressive trajectories feature large accelerations and rapid rotational motions, and when they pass close to objects in the environment, this induces large apparent motions in the vision sensors, all of which increase the difficulty in estimation. Existing benchmark datasets do not address these types of trajectories, instead focusing on slow speed or constrained trajectories, targeting other tasks such as inspection or driving. We introduce the UZH-FPV Drone Racing dataset, consisting of over 27 sequences, with more than 10 km of flight distance, captured on a first-person-view (FPV) racing quadrotor flown by an expert pilot. The dataset features camera images, inertial measurements, event-camera data, and precise ground truth poses. These sequences are faster and more challenging, in terms of apparent scene motion, than any existing dataset. Our goal is to enable advancement of the state of the art in aggressive motion estimation by providing a dataset that is beyond the capabilities of existing state estimation algorithms.

Title: Practical guide to solve the minimum-effort problem with geometric algorithms and B-Splines
Key Words: geometry  Jacobian matrices  legged locomotion  Lie algebras  Lie groups  motion control  optimal control  splines (mathematics)  discrete representation  direct collocation method  B-splines  biped robot  robot motions  articulated robots  Jacobian function  Lie groups  Lie algebra  transcription methods  numerical optimal control  geometric algorithms  minimum-effort problem  Splines (mathematics)  Robot motion  Optimal control  Mathematical model  Jacobian matrices 
Abstract: This paper focuses on important implementation issues of numerical optimal control that are often overlooked. In particular, transcription methods should be carefully implemented for obtaining a discrete representation of the problem. For this purpose, we explain the algorithms to solve the minimum-effort problem by applying a direct collocation method based on B-Splines. In addition, we describe how to compute the gradient of the objective function as well as the Jacobian of the constraints without the use of finite differences and automatic differentiation. Geometric algorithms based on Lie groups and Lie algebra are examined to efficiently compute the analytical derivatives of the equations of motion of articulated robots. These ingredients allow the fast computation of dynamically feasible robot motions. We provide numerical comparisons with a biped robot to validate our recipe against classical direct collocation methods.

Title: Augmenting Action Model Learning by Non-Geometric Features
Key Words: Gaussian processes  grippers  human-robot interaction  learning (artificial intelligence)  manipulators  mixture models  mobile robots  teaching  action model learning  nongeometric features  manipulation actions  action-induced reactions  measured liquid levels  explicit case dependent programming  external features  dynamic system  action imitation  geometric trajectory  real-world robot experiments  Gaussian mixture model representation  Robots  Trajectory  Task analysis  Liquids  Force measurement  Grippers  Dynamics 
Abstract: Learning from demonstration is a powerful tool for teaching manipulation actions to a robot. It is, however, an unsolved problem how to consider knowledge about the world and action-induced reactions such as forces imposed onto the gripper or measured liquid levels during pouring without explicit and case dependent programming. In this paper, we present a novel approach to include such knowledge directly in form of measured features. To this end, we use action demonstrations together with external features to learn a motion encoded by a dynamic system in a Gaussian Mixture Model (GMM) representation. Accordingly, during action imitation, the system is able to couple the geometric trajectory of the motion to measured features in the scene. We demonstrate the feasibility of our approach with a broad range of external features in real-world robot experiments including a drinking, a handover and a pouring task.

Title: Skill Acquisition via Automated Multi-Coordinate Cost Balancing
Key Words: convex programming  intelligent robots  learning (artificial intelligence)  learning framework  MCCB  point-to-point movement skills  multiple differential coordinates  local geometric properties  convex optimization problem  multicoordinate cost function  complex skill datasets  skill acquisition  automated multicoordinate cost balancing  Trajectory  Laplace equations  Cost function  Task analysis  Encoding  Robots 
Abstract: We propose a learning framework, named Multi-Coordinate Cost Balancing (MCCB), to address the problem of acquiring point-to-point movement skills from demonstrations. MCCB encodes demonstrations simultaneously in multiple differential coordinates that specify local geometric properties. MCCB generates reproductions by solving a convex optimization problem with a multi-coordinate cost function and linear constraints on the reproductions, such as initial, target, and via points. Further, since the relative importance of each coordinate system in the cost function might be unknown for a given skill, MCCB learns optimal weighting factors that balance the cost function. We demonstrate the effectiveness of MCCB via detailed experiments conducted on one handwriting dataset and three complex skill datasets.

Title: Real-time Multisensory Affordance-based Control for Adaptive Object Manipulation
Key Words: haptic interfaces  learning (artificial intelligence)  manipulators  robot vision  adaptive object manipulation  RMAC  multisensory inputs  real-time multisensory affordance-based control  affordance models  Robot sensing systems  Hidden Markov models  Trajectory  Adaptation models  Real-time systems  Data models 
Abstract: We address the challenge of how a robot can adapt its actions to successfully manipulate objects it has not previously encountered. We introduce Real-time Multisensory Affordance-based Control (RMAC), which enables a robot to adapt existing affordance models using multisensory inputs. We show that using the combination of haptic, audio, and visual information with RMAC allows the robot to learn afforance models and adaptively manipulate two very different objects (drawer, lamp), in multiple novel configurations. Offline evaluations and real-time online evaluations show that RMAC allows the robot to accurately open different drawer configurations and turn-on novel lamps with an average accuracy of 75%.

Title: Learning Behavior Trees From Demonstration
Key Words: control engineering computing  decision trees  learning (artificial intelligence)  robot programming  LfD methods  decision trees  household cleaning task  Robotic Learning from Demonstration  primitive actions  Fetch robot  human teaching  robot programming  behavior trees  Task analysis  Decision trees  Service robots  Hidden Markov models  Real-time systems  Games 
Abstract: Robotic Learning from Demonstration (LfD) allows anyone, not just experts, to program a robot for an arbitrary task. Many LfD methods focus on low level primitive actions such as manipulator trajectories. Complex multistep task with many primitive actions must be learned from demonstration if LfD is to encompass the full range of task a user may desire. Existing methods represent the high level task in various forms including, finite state machines, decision trees, formal logic, among others. Behavior trees are proposed as an alternative representation of high level task. Behavior trees are an execution model for the control of a robot designed for real time execution, modularity, and, consequently, transparency. Real time execution allows the robot to reactively perform the task. Modularity allows the reuse of learned primitive actions and high level task in new situations, speeding up the process of learning in new scenarios. Transparency allows users to understand and interactively modify the learned model. Behavior trees are used to represent high level tasks by building on the relationship it has with decision trees. We demonstrate a human teaching our Fetch robot a household cleaning task.

Title: Leveraging Temporal Reasoning for Policy Selection in Learning from Demonstration
Key Words: graph theory  learning by example  probability  temporal reasoning  policy selection  temporal reasoning model  Allen's interval algebra  sequential relations  parallel temporal relations  probabilistic inference  temporal context graph  learning from demonstration  perceptual aliasing  Task analysis  Hidden Markov models  Cognition  Context modeling  Robots  Algebra  Probabilistic logic 
Abstract: High-level human activities often have rich temporal structures that determine the order in which atomic actions are executed. We propose the Temporal Context Graph (TCG), a temporal reasoning model that integrates probabilistic inference with Allen's interval algebra, to capture these temporal structures. TCGs are capable of modeling tasks with cyclical atomic actions and consisting of sequential and parallel temporal relations. We present Learning from Demonstration as the application domain where the use of TCGs can improve policy selection and address the problem of perceptual aliasing. Experiments validating the model are presented for learning two tasks from demonstration that involve structured human-robot interactions. The source code for this implementation is available at https://github.com/AssistiveRoboticsUNH/TCG.

Title: Imitating Human Search Strategies for Assembly
Key Words: collision avoidance  end effectors  human-robot interaction  learning (artificial intelligence)  manipulator dynamics  mobile robots  motion control  position control  robot vision  alignment tasks  human demonstrations  state invariant dynamics model  exploration distribution  search trajectory  deterministic ergodic control  position domains  superposed forces  learnt strategy  3D electricity socket task  search task  human search strategies  Trajectory  Task analysis  Robot sensing systems  Search problems  Sockets  Impedance 
Abstract: We present a Learning from Demonstration method for teaching robots to perform search strategies imitated from humans in scenarios where alignment tasks fail due to position uncertainty. The method utilizes human demonstrations to learn both a state invariant dynamics model and an exploration distribution that captures the search area covered by the demonstrator. We present two alternative algorithms for computing a search trajectory from the exploration distribution, one based on sampling and another based on deterministic ergodic control. We augment the search trajectory with forces learnt through the dynamics model to enable searching both in force and position domains. An impedance controller with superposed forces is used for reproducing the learnt strategy. We experimentally evaluate the method on a KUKA LWR4+ performing a 2D peg-in-hole and a 3D electricity socket task. Results show that the proposed method can, with only few human demonstrations, learn to complete the search task.

Title: Active Multi-Contact Continuous Tactile Exploration with Gaussian Process Differential Entropy
Key Words: end effectors  entropy  Gaussian processes  mobile robots  path planning  tactile sensors  touch (physiological)  active multicontact continuous tactile exploration  Gaussian process differential entropy  active tactile exploration framework  exploration strategy  information theoretic context  nonmyopic multistep planning  end-effectors  tactile stimuli  compliant controller framework  tactile exploration approach  nonconvex objects  Gaussian process implicit surface model  sliding based tactile exploration  End effectors  Surface treatment  Robot sensing systems  Shape  Gaussian processes  Entropy 
Abstract: In the present work, we propose an active tactile exploration framework to obtain a surface model of an unknown object utilizing multiple contacts simultaneously. To incorporate these multiple contacts, the exploration strategy is based on the differential entropy of the underlying Gaussian process implicit surface model, which formalizes the exploration with multiple contacts within an information theoretic context and additionally allows for nonmyopic multi-step planning. In contrast to many previous approaches, the robot continuously slides along the surface with its end-effectors to gather the tactile stimuli, instead of touching it at discrete locations. This is realized by closely integrating the surface model into the compliant controller framework. Furthermore, we extend our recently proposed sliding based tactile exploration approach to handle non-convex objects. In the experiments, it is shown that multiple contacts simultaneously leads to a more efficient exploration of complex, non-convex objects, not only in terms of time, but also with respect to the total moved distance of all end-effectors. Finally, we demonstrate our methodology with a real PR2 robot that explores an object with both of its arms.

Title: Learning Robust Manipulation Skills with Guided Policy Search via Generative Motor Reflexes
Key Words: learning (artificial intelligence)  manipulators  neural nets  search problems  trajectory control  robust manipulation skills  control policies  complex manipulation tasks  high-dimensional neural networks  robot actions  real-world trajectory samples  resulting neural networks  policy representation  robust actions  broader state space  state-dependent motor reflex  similar motor reflexes  real-world manipulation tasks  guided policy search  generative motor reflexes map states  state-action policies  Neural networks  Trajectory  Robots  Robustness  Reinforcement learning  Space exploration  Training 
Abstract: Guided Policy Search enables robots to learn control policies for complex manipulation tasks efficiently. Therein, the control policies are represented as high-dimensional neural networks which derive robot actions based on states. However, due to the small number of real-world trajectory samples in Guided Policy Search, the resulting neural networks are only robust in the neighbourhood of the trajectory distribution explored by real-world interactions. In this paper, we present a new policy representation called Generative Motor Reflexes, which is able to generate robust actions over a broader state space compared to previous methods. In contrast to prior state-action policies, Generative Motor Reflexes map states to parameters for a state-dependent motor reflex, which is then used to derive actions. Robustness is achieved by generating similar motor reflexes for many states. We evaluate the presented method in simulated and real-world manipulation tasks, including contact-rich peg-in-hole tasks. Using these evaluation tasks, we show that policies represented as Generative Motor Reflexes lead to robust manipulation skills also outside the explored trajectory distribution with less training needs compared to previous methods.

Title: Incremental Learning of Spatial-Temporal Features in Human Motion Patterns with Mixture Model for Planning Motion of a Collaborative Robot in Assembly Lines
Key Words: assembling  industrial robots  learning (artificial intelligence)  mobile robots  motion control  product quality  productivity  spatial-temporal features  human motion patterns  collaborative robot  assembly lines  incremental learning system  planning motion  products quality  workers behavior  Task analysis  Hidden Markov models  Mixture models  Predictive models  Data models  Trajectory  Adaptation models 
Abstract: Collaborative robots are expected to work in cooperation with humans to improve productivity and maintain the quality of products. In the previous study, we have proposed an incremental learning system for adaptively scheduling a motion of the collaborative robot based on a worker's behavior. Although this system could model the worker's motion pattern precisely and robustly without collecting the worker's data in advance, it required two different models for modeling the worker's spatial and temporal features respectively and was not well considered for generalization. In this paper, we extend the previous incremental learning system by integrating the spatial and temporal models using a mixture model. In addition, we install a new incremental learning algorithm which improves a generalization capability of the mixture model and avoids overfitting in the situation where the prior information is limited. Implementing the proposed algorithm, we evaluate the effectiveness of the proposed system by experiments for several workers and for several assembly processes.

Title: Learning Quickly to Plan Quickly Using Modular Meta-Learning
Key Words: control engineering computing  learning (artificial intelligence)  manipulators  path planning  multiobject manipulation problems  continuous state  continuous operator parameters  state description  discrete parameters  single specializer  modular meta-learning approach  action spaces  3D pick-and-place tasks  Task analysis  Planning  Robots  Skeleton  Search problems  Companies  Neural networks 
Abstract: Multi-object manipulation problems in continuous state and action spaces can be solved by planners that search over sampled values for the continuous parameters of operators. The efficiency of these planners depends critically on the effectiveness of the samplers used, but effective sampling in turn depends on details of the robot, environment, and task. Our strategy is to learn functions called speciatizers that generate values for continuous operator parameters, given a state description and values for the discrete parameters. Rather than trying to learn a single specializer for each operator from large amounts of data on a single task, we take a modular meta-learning approach. We train on multiple tasks and learn a variety of specializers that, on a new task, can be quickly adapted using relatively little data - thus, our system learns quickly to plan quickly using these specializers. We validate our approach experimentally in simulated 3D pick-and-place tasks with continuous state and action spaces. Visit http://tinyurl.com/chitnis-icra-19 for a supplementary video.

Title: Deep Multi-Sensory Object Category Recognition Using Interactive Behavioral Exploration
Key Words: convolutional neural nets  learning (artificial intelligence)  object recognition  recurrent neural nets  robot vision  multisensory object category recognition  interactive behavioral exploration  deep learning methodology  visual data  haptic sensory data  haptic data  auditory data  sensory modality  visual information  dominant modality  auditory networks  convolutional neural networks  haptic networks  tensor-train gated recurrent unit network  robot category recognition  Haptic interfaces  Robot sensing systems  Visualization  Convolution  Network architecture  Neural networks 
Abstract: When identifying an object and its properties, humans use features from multiple sensory modalities produced when manipulating the object. Motivated by this cognitive process, we propose a deep learning methodology for object category recognition which uses visual, auditory, and haptic sensory data coupled with exploratory behaviors (e.g., grasping, lifting, pushing, etc.). In our method, as the robot performs an action on an object, it uses a Tensor-Train Gated Recurrent Unit network to process its visual data, and Convolutional Neural Networks to process haptic and auditory data. We propose a novel strategy to train a single neural network that inputs video, audio and haptic data, and demonstrate that its performance is better than separate neural networks for each sensory modality. The proposed method was evaluated on a dataset in which the robot explored 100 different objects, each belonging to one of 20 categories. While the visual information was the dominant modality for most categories, adding the additional haptic and auditory networks further improves the robot's category recognition accuracy. For some of the behaviors, our approach outperforms the previous published baseline for the dataset which used handcrafted features for each modality. We also show that a robot does not need the sensory data from the entire interaction, but instead can make a good prediction early on during behavior execution.

Title: Discontinuity-Sensitive Optimal Control Learning by Mixture of Experts
Key Words: approximation theory  function approximation  iterative methods  learning (artificial intelligence)  neural nets  nonlinear control systems  optimal control  optimisation  discontinuity-sensitive optimal control learning  machine learning method  parametric input  problem parameters  optimal solutions  problem-optimum map  discrete homotopy classes  control switching  MoE  standard neural networks  dynamic vehicle control problems  nonlinear optimal control problems  function approximators  mixture of experts model  trajectory prediction  Trajectory  Training  Optimal control  Neural networks  Optimization  Standards  Predictive models 
Abstract: This paper proposes a machine learning method to predict the solutions of related nonlinear optimal control problems given some parametric input, such as the initial state. The map between problem parameters to optimal solutions is called the problem-optimum map, and is often discontinuous due to nonconvexity, discrete homotopy classes, and control switching. This causes difficulties for traditional function approximators such as neural networks, which assume continuity of the underlying function. This paper proposes a mixture of experts (MoE) model composed of a classifier and several regressors, where each regressor is tuned to a particular continuous region. A novel training approach is proposed that trains classifier and regressors independently. MoE greatly outperforms standard neural networks, and achieves highly reliable trajectory prediction (over 99.5% accuracy) in several dynamic vehicle control problems.

Title: Wormhole Learning
Key Words: cameras  image colour analysis  image sensors  infrared detectors  learning (artificial intelligence)  object detection  object detector  invariance properties  visible-light RGB camera  infrared sensor  temporary sensor  infrared detector  RGB-inferred labels  infrared-inferred labels  transfer learning  wormhole learning  pretrained RGB detector  Detectors  Task analysis  Robot sensing systems  Cameras  Lighting  Training  Mutual information 
Abstract: Typically, to enlarge the operating domain of an object detector, more labeled training data is required. We describe a method called wormhole learning, which allows to extend the operating domain without additional data, but only with temporary access to an auxiliary sensor with certain invariance properties. We describe the instantiation of this principle with a regular visible-light RGB camera as the main sensor, and an infrared sensor as the temporary sensor. We start with a pre-trained RGB detector; then we train the infrared detector based on the RGB-inferred labels; finally we re-train the RGB detector based on the infrared-inferred labels. After these two transfer-learning steps, the RGB detector has enlarged its operating domain by inheriting part of the invariance to illumination of the infrared sensor; in particular, the RGB detector is now able to see much better at night. We analyze the wormhole learning phenomenon by bounding the possible gain in accuracy using mutual information properties of the two sensors and considered operating domain.

Title: Sharing the Load: Human-Robot Team Lifting Using Muscle Activity
Key Words: control engineering computing  electromyography  groupware  human computer interaction  human-robot interaction  lifting  muscle  neural nets  robotic assembly  signal detection  human-robot team lifting  muscle activity  surface electromyography  muscle signals  continuous setpoint algorithm  biceps activity  triceps activity  assembly tasks  physical human-robot collaboration  surface EMG  neural network  Muscles  Task analysis  Electromyography  Robot kinematics  Signal processing algorithms  Pipelines 
Abstract: Seamless communication of desired motions and goals is essential for enabling effective physical human-robot collaboration. In such cases, muscle activity measured via surface electromyography (EMG) can provide insight into a person's intentions while minimally distracting from the task. The presented system uses two muscle signals to create a control framework for team lifting tasks in which a human and robot lift an object together. A continuous setpoint algorithm uses biceps activity to estimate changes in the user's hand height, and also allows the user to explicitly adjust the robot by stiffening or relaxing their arm. In addition to this pipeline, a neural network trained only on previous users classifies biceps and triceps activity to detect up or down gestures on a rolling basis; this enables finer control over the robot and expands the feasible workspace. The resulting system is evaluated by 10 untrained subjects performing a variety of team lifting and assembly tasks with rigid and flexible objects.

Title: Position control of medical cable-driven flexible instruments by combining machine learning and kinematic analysis
Key Words: cables (mechanical)  control engineering computing  endoscopes  flexible manipulators  learning (artificial intelligence)  manipulator kinematics  medical computing  medical robotics  position control  robot kinematics  surgery  medical cable-driven flexible instruments  machine learning  kinematic analysis  cable transmissions  medical endoscopic systems  flexible medical robotic systems  open-loop accuracy  Position Inverse Kinematic Model  off-line learning  learning process  STRAS medical robot  position control  kinematic models  hysteresis effects  Instruments  Hysteresis motors  Hysteresis  Training  Kinematics  Robot sensing systems 
Abstract: Non-linearities in cable transmissions are important limitations for the accurate control of flexible instruments used in medical endoscopic systems. Hysteresis effects greatly impact the accuracy of conventional kinematic models. This is especially critical for implementing automatic motions in flexible medical robotic systems. In this paper, we propose a method for improving open-loop accuracy of flexible instruments by implementing a Position Inverse Kinematic Model which is able to take into account hysteresis effects. In order to avoid complex physical modeling, the method relies on the off-line learning of the behavior of the instruments. Basic knowledge of the kinematic is also incorporated in the learning process in order to make it fast. The validity of the approach is demonstrated by the execution of 2D and 3D trajectories with the instruments of the STRAS medical robot. The accuracy is shown to be significantly improved with respect to other learning-based methods.

Title: Online Learning for Proactive Obstacle Avoidance with Powered Transfemoral Prostheses
Key Words: adaptive control  collision avoidance  kinematics  medical control systems  prosthetics  regression analysis  regression model  kinematic data  obstacle avoidance system  obstacle avoidance success rates  prosthetic limb  adaptive system  powered prosthetic limbs  stumble recovery systems  powered prostheses  direct knee control  mechanically-passive transfemoral prosthetic limbs  powered transfemoral prostheses  proactive obstacle avoidance  online learning  amputee subject  obstacle negotiation success rate  trip avoidance system  nonamputee subject  Collision avoidance  Trajectory  Knee  Prosthetics  Legged locomotion  Sensitivity  Feature extraction 
Abstract: Avoiding obstacles poses a significant challenge for amputees using mechanically-passive transfemoral prosthetic limbs due to their lack of direct knee control. In contrast, powered prostheses can potentially improve obstacle avoidance via their ability to add energy to the system. In past work, researchers have proposed stumble recovery systems for powered prosthetic limbs that provide assistance in the event of a trip. However, these systems only aid recovery after an obstacle has disrupted the user's gait and do not proactively help the amputee avoid obstacles. To address this problem, we designed an adaptive system that learns online to use kinematic data from the prosthetic limb to detect the user's obstacle avoidance intent in early swing. When the system detects an obstacle, it alters the planned swing trajectory to help avoid trips. Additionally, the system uses a regression model to predict the required knee flexion angle for the trip response. We validated the system by comparing obstacle avoidance success rates with and without the obstacle avoidance system. For a non-amputee subject wearing the prosthesis through an adapter, the trip avoidance system improved the obstacle negotiation success rate from 37% to 89%, while an amputee subject improved his success rate from 35% to 71% when compared to utilizing minimum jerk trajectories for the knee and ankle joints.

Title: Passive Dynamic Object Locomotion by Rocking and Walking Manipulation
Key Words: end effectors  gait analysis  legged locomotion  manipulator dynamics  manipulator kinematics  motion control  path planning  passive dynamic object locomotion  walking manipulation  zigzag path  kinematics  rocking motion  manipulator arm  robotic manipulation technique  rock-and-walk object transportation technique  simple end-effector  stable gait  rock-walk object locomotion  gravity force  Dynamics  Legged locomotion  Gravity  Manipulator dynamics  Kinematics  Rocks 
Abstract: This paper presents a novel robotic manipulation technique for transporting objects on the ground in a passive dynamic, nonprehensile manner. The object is manipulated to rock from side to side repeatedly; in the meantime, the force of gravity enables the object to roll along a zigzag path that is eventually heading forward. We call it rock-and-walk object locomotion. First, we examine the kinematics and dynamics of the rocking motion to understand how the states of the object evolve. We then discuss how to control the robot to connect individual rocking motions into a stable gait of the object. Our rock-and-walk object transportation technique is implemented using a conventional manipulator arm and a simple end-effector, interacting with the object in a nonprehensile manner in favor of the passive dynamics of the object. A set of experiments demonstrates successful object locomotion.

Title: Autonomous Latching System for Robotic Boats
Key Words: boats  mobile robots  motion control  multi-robot systems  robot vision  robotic assembly  autonomous latching system  autonomous robotic boats  multiple boats  dynamic united floating infrastructure  latching mechanism  vision-based robot controller  docking  rotation movement  self-driving robotic boats  Robots  Boats  Sockets  Latches  Computer interfaces  Three-dimensional displays  Laser beams 
Abstract: Autonomous robotic boats are devised to transport people and goods similar to self-driving cars. One of the attractive features specially applied in water environment is to dynamically link and join multiple boats into one unit in order to form floating infrastructure such as bridges, markets or concert stages, as well as autonomously self-detach to perform individual tasks.In this paper we present a novel latching system that enables robotic boats to create dynamic united floating infrastructure while overcoming water disturbances. The proposed latching mechanism is based on the spherical joint (ball and socket) that allows rotation and free movements in two planes at the same time. In this configuration, the latching system is capable to securely and efficiently assemble/disassemble floating structures. The vision-based robot controller guides the self-driving robotic boats to latch with high accuracy in the millimeter range. Moreover, in case the robotic boat fails to latch due to harsh weather, the autonomous latching system is capable to recompute and reposition to latch successfully. We present experimental results from latching and docking in indoor environments. Also, we present results in outdoor environments from latching a couple of robotic boats in open water with calm and turbulent currents.

Title: Streaming Scene Maps for Co-Robotic Exploration in Bandwidth Limited Environments
Key Words: autonomous underwater vehicles  geophysical image processing  image representation  object detection  oceanographic techniques  probability  robot vision  SLAM (robots)  unsupervised learning  co-robotic exploration  bandwidth tunable technique  real-time probabilistic scene modeling  communication constrained environments  deep sea  scene complexity  bandwidth requirements  underwater robot  high-level semantic scene constructs  artificially constructed tank environment  science interests  unsupervised scene model impact  resulting scene model  coral reef  bandwidth constraints  scene maps streaming  Robot sensing systems  Bandwidth  Oceans  Data models  Visualization  Bayes methods 
Abstract: This paper proposes a bandwidth tunable technique for real-time probabilistic scene modeling and mapping to enable co-robotic exploration in communication constrained environments such as the deep sea. The parameters of the system enable the user to characterize the scene complexity represented by the map, which in turn determines the bandwidth requirements. The approach is demonstrated using an underwater robot that learns an unsupervised scene model of the environment and then uses this scene model to communicate the spatial distribution of various high-level semantic scene constructs to a human operator. Preliminary experiments in an artificially constructed tank environment as well as simulated missions over a 10m×10m coral reef using real data show the tunability of the maps to different bandwidth constraints and science interests. To our knowledge this is the first paper to quantity how the free parameters of the unsupervised scene model impact both the scientific utility of and bandwidth required to communicate the resulting scene model.

Title: UWStereoNet: Unsupervised Learning for Depth Estimation and Color Correction of Underwater Stereo Imagery
Key Words: cameras  computerised instrumentation  feature extraction  geophysical image processing  image colour analysis  image matching  image resolution  image restoration  light propagation  neural nets  oceanographic techniques  spatial variables measurement  stereo image processing  unsupervised learning  visual perception  unsupervised learning  stereo cameras  navigation  underwater robotic systems  constrained camera geometry  feature detection  underwater light propagation lead  deep learning  underwater image restoration  unsupervised deep neural network  input raw color underwater stereo imagery  color corrected imagery  underwater image formation  image processing techniques  depth estimation  stereo vision algorithms  disparity estimation  DNN  Image color analysis  Estimation  Image restoration  Cameras  Attenuation  Stereo vision  Deep learning 
Abstract: Stereo cameras are widely used for sensing and navigation of underwater robotic systems. They can provide high resolution color views of a scene; the constrained camera geometry enables metrically accurate depth estimation; they are also relatively cost-effective. Traditional stereo vision algorithms rely on feature detection and matching to enable triangulation of points for estimating disparity. However, for underwater applications, the effects of underwater light propagation lead to image degradation, reducing image quality and contrast. This makes it especially challenging to detect and match features, especially from varying viewpoints. Recently, deep learning has shown success in end-to-end learning of dense disparity maps from stereo images. Still, many state-of-the-art methods are supervised and require ground truth depth or disparity, which is challenging to gather in subsea environments. Simultaneously, deep learning has also been applied to the problem of underwater image restoration. Again, it is difficult or impossible to gather real ground truth data for this problem. In this work, we present an unsupervised deep neural network (DNN) that takes input raw color underwater stereo imagery and outputs dense depth maps and color corrected imagery of underwater scenes. We leverage a model of the process of underwater image formation, image processing techniques, as well as the geometric constraints inherent to the stereo vision problem to develop a modular network that outperforms existing methods.

Title: Design and Parameter Optimization of a 3-PSR Parallel Mechanism for Replicating Wave and Boat Motion
Key Words: autonomous aerial vehicles  boats  marine safety  motion control  optimisation  pitch control (position)  ball joint mounting angle  experimental testing  boat motion replication  parameter optimization  3-PSR parallel mechanism  three-degree-of-freedom  prismatic-spherical-revolute parallel mechanism  unmanned aerial vehicle  unmanned surface vehicle  lookup table  geometric constraints  wave replication  three actuated linear rails  UAV winch payload  inertial measurement unit  Boats  Fasteners  Testing  Rails  Sea state  Kinematics  Unmanned aerial vehicles 
Abstract: We present a low-cost, three-degree-of-freedom (3-DOF) prismatic-spherical-revolute (PSR) parallel mechanism used as a testing platform for an unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV) tethered to an unmanned surface vehicle (USV). The mechanism has three actuated linear rails kinematically linked to a platform which replicates boat motion up to 2.5 m vertical heave (sea state 4, Douglas Sea Scale). A lookup table relating relative slider heights to platform roll and pitch was developed numerically leveraging geometric constraints. A design parameter study optimized the arm length, platform size, and ball joint mounting angle relative to the overall radius to maximize the workspace. For this design, a maximum roll and pitch range from -32° to 32° and -25° to 35°, respectively, is achievable. A prototype was manufactured to carry the tethered UAV winch payload. Experimental testing confirmed the workspace and demonstrated boat motion replication, validated using an inertial measurement unit (IMU).

Title: A Framework for On-line Learning of Underwater Vehicles Dynamic Models
Key Words: marine navigation  mobile robots  regression analysis  robot dynamics  support vector machines  tracking  underwater vehicles  vehicle dynamics  on-line learning  underwater vehicles dynamic models  accurate tracking controllers  navigation algorithms  high fidelity performance  robot dynamics  incremental support vector regression method  Robots  Vehicle dynamics  Adaptation models  Computational modeling  Heuristic algorithms  Support vector machines  Data models 
Abstract: Learning the dynamics of robots from data can help achieve more accurate tracking controllers, or aid their navigation algorithms. However, when the actual dynamics of the robots change due to external conditions, on-line adaptation of their models is required to maintain high fidelity performance. In this work, a framework for on-line learning of robot dynamics is developed to adapt to such changes. The proposed framework employs an incremental support vector regression method to learn the model sequentially from data streams. In combination with the incremental learning, strategies for including and forgetting data are developed to obtain better generalization over the whole state space. The framework is tested in simulation and real experimental scenarios demonstrating its adaptation capabilities to changes in the robot's dynamics.

Title: Incorporating End-to-End Speech Recognition Models for Sentiment Analysis
Key Words: emotion recognition  human-robot interaction  learning (artificial intelligence)  natural language processing  pattern classification  recurrent neural nets  speech recognition  text analysis  linguistic modality  expressed emotion  spoken text  ground-truth transcriptions  speech recognition mistakes  automatic speech recognition output  character-level recurrent neural network  sentiment recognition  acoustic modality  binary sentiment classification task  emotion recognition  synergistic effect  auditory transcribed text  transcribed text  sentiment intensity  end-to-end speech recognition models  sentiment analysis  ASR systems  multimodal corpus of sentiment intensity  MOSI  Acoustics  Feature extraction  Speech recognition  Training  Computational modeling  Computer architecture  Emotion recognition 
Abstract: Previous work on emotion recognition demonstrated a synergistic effect of combining several modalities such as auditory, visual, and transcribed text to estimate the affective state of a speaker. Among these, the linguistic modality is crucial for the evaluation of an expressed emotion. However, manually transcribed spoken text cannot be given as input to a system practically. We argue that using ground-truth transcriptions during training and evaluation phases leads to a significant discrepancy in performance compared to real-world conditions, as the spoken text has to be recognized on the fly and can contain speech recognition mistakes. In this paper, we propose a method of integrating an automatic speech recognition (ASR) output with a character-level recurrent neural network for sentiment recognition. In addition, we conduct several experiments investigating sentiment recognition for human-robot interaction in a noise-realistic scenario which is challenging for the ASR systems. We quantify the improvement compared to using only the acoustic modality in sentiment recognition. We demonstrate the effectiveness of this approach on the Multimodal Corpus of Sentiment Intensity (MOSI) by achieving 73,6% accuracy in a binary sentiment classification task, exceeding previously reported results that use only acoustic input. In addition, we set a new state-of-the-art performance on the MOSI dataset (80.4% accuracy, 2% absolute improvement).

Title: Improved Optical Flow for Gesture-based Human-robot Interaction
Key Words: feature extraction  gesture recognition  human-robot interaction  neural nets  service robots  gesture interaction  human motion  gesture-based human-robot interaction  house service robot  practical robot applications  gesture recognition methods  optical flow estimation method  speed-accuracy trade-off  deep learning-based methods  feature extractors  midway features  Estimation  Optical imaging  Feature extraction  Gesture recognition  Robots  Optical fiber networks  Human-robot interaction 
Abstract: Gesture interaction is a natural way of communicating with a robot as an alternative to speech. Gesture recognition methods leverage optical flow in order to understand human motion. However, while accurate optical flow estimation (i.e., traditional) methods are costly in terms of runtime, fast estimation (i.e., deep learning) methods' accuracy can be improved. In this paper, we present a pipeline for gesture-based human-robot interaction that uses a novel optical flow estimation method in order to achieve an improved speed-accuracy trade-off. Our optical flow estimation method introduces four improvements to previous deep learning-based methods: strong feature extractors, attention to contours, midway features, and a combination of these three. This results in a better understanding of motion, and a finer representation of silhouettes. In order to evaluate our pipeline, we generated our own dataset, MIBURI, which contains gestures to command a house service robot. In our experiments, we show how our method improves not only optical flow estimation, but also gesture recognition, offering a speed-accuracy trade-off more realistic for practical robot applications.

Title: Decentralization of Multiagent Policies by Learning What to Communicate
Key Words: decentralised control  multi-agent systems  multi-robot systems  neurocontrollers  optimisation  multiagent policies  agent architecture  training methodology  neural networks  task-oriented communication semantics  communication-unaware expert policy  perimeter defense game  communication constraints  collaborative tasks  optimization  decentralization  Neural networks  Pins  Task analysis  Training  Games  Computer architecture  Decoding 
Abstract: Effective communication is required for teams of robots to solve sophisticated collaborative tasks. In practice it is typical for both the encoding and semantics of communication to be manually defined by an expert; this is true regardless of whether the behaviors themselves are bespoke, optimization based, or learned. We present an agent architecture and training methodology using neural networks to learn task-oriented communication semantics based on the example of a communication-unaware expert policy. A perimeter defense game illustrates the system's ability to handle dynamically changing numbers of agents and its graceful degradation in performance as communication constraints are tightened or the expert's observability assumptions are broken.

Title: Acquisition of Word-Object Associations from Human-Robot and Human-Human Dialogues
Key Words: human-robot interaction  knowledge acquisition  learning (artificial intelligence)  robot programming  human-robot dialogues  word-object associations  human-human dialogues  robotic system  AI agents  cross-situational learning  Instruction-based word learning  Robots  Semantics  Syntactics  Learning systems  Linguistics  Education  Computer architecture 
Abstract: Past work on acquisition of word-object associations in robots has focused on either fast instruction-based methods which accept highly constrained input or gradual cross-situational learning methods, but not a mixture of both. In this paper, we present an integrated robotic system which allows for a combination of these methods to contribute to the task of learning the labels of objects in AI agents. We demonstrate the expanded word learning capabilities in the outcome system and how learning from both human-human and human-robot dialogues can be achieved in one integrated system.

Title: Robot Object Referencing through Legible Situated Projections
Key Words: helmet mounted displays  human-robot interaction  mobile robots  object detection  target object  PR2 robot  robot object  legible situated projections  reference objects  complex task-oriented human-robot collaborations  robot-to-human information transfer  visual referencing  arrow-object match functions  head-mounted projector  Task analysis  Collaboration  Legged locomotion  Communication channels  Visualization  Computer science 
Abstract: The ability to reference objects in the environment is a key communication skill that robots need for complex, task-oriented human-robot collaborations. In this paper we explore the use of projections, which are a powerful communication channel for robot-to-human information transfer as they allow for situated, instantaneous, and parallelized visual referencing. We focus on the question of what makes a good projection for referencing a target object. To that end, we mathematically formulatelegibility of projections intended to reference an object, and propose alternative arrow-object match functions for optimally computing the placement of an arrow to indicate a target object in a cluttered scene. We implement our approach on a PR2 robot with a head-mounted projector. Through an online (48 participants) and an in-person (12 participants) user study we validate the effectiveness of our approach, identify the types of scenes where projections may fail, and characterize the differences between alternative match functions.

Title: Security-Aware Synthesis of Human-UAV Protocols
Key Words: autonomous aerial vehicles  command and control systems  control engineering computing  formal verification  learning (artificial intelligence)  military aircraft  stochastic games  security-aware synthesis  human-UAV protocols  collaboration protocols  human-unmanned aerial vehicle  geolocation task  stochastic game-based model  stealthy false-data injection attacks  collected experimental data  human-UAV coalition  H-UAV protocol synthesis  human operators  UAV hidden-information constraint  RESCHU-SA testbed  geolocation strategies  model checkers  command and control systems  Games  Task analysis  Protocols  Geology  Stochastic processes  Security  Global Positioning System 
Abstract: In this work, we synthesize collaboration protocols for human-unmanned aerial vehicle (H-UAV) command and control systems, where the human operator aids in securing the UAV by intermittently performing geolocation tasks to confirm its reported location. We first present a stochastic game-based model for the system that accounts for both the operator and an adversary capable of launching stealthy false-data injection attacks, causing the UAV to deviate from its path. We also describe a synthesis challenge due to the UAV's hidden-information constraint. Next, we perform human experiments using a developed RESCHU-SA testbed to recognize the geolocation strategies that operators adopt. Furthermore, we deploy machine learning techniques on the collected experimental data to predict the correctness of a geolocation task at a given location based on its geographical features. By representing the model as a delayed-action game and formalizing the system objectives, we utilize off-the-shelf model checkers to synthesize protocols for the human-UAV coalition that satisfy these objectives. Finally, we demonstrate the usefulness of the H-UAV protocol synthesis through a case study where the protocols are experimentally analyzed and further evaluated by human operators.

Title: Underwater Communication Using Full-Body Gestures and Optimal Variable-Length Prefix Codes
Key Words: convolutional neural nets  decoding  encoding  gesture recognition  learning (artificial intelligence)  mobile robots  multi-robot systems  protocols  variable length codes  optimal variable-length prefix codes  interrobot communication  action sequences  swimming robot  communication protocol  whole-body gestures  radio-denied environments  passive communication  full-body gestures  underwater communication  robot gesture execution  classical decoding methods  observer robot  convolutional network  natural activity  Robots  Encoding  Decoding  Three-dimensional displays  Visualization  Heuristic algorithms  Target tracking 
Abstract: In this paper we consider inter-robot communication in the context of joint activities. In particular, we focus on convoying and passive communication for radio-denied environments by using whole-body gestures to provide cues regarding future actions. We develop a communication protocol whereby information described by codewords is transmitted by a series of actions executed by a swimming robot. These action sequences are chosen to optimize robustness and transmission duration given the observability, natural activity of the robot and the frequency of different messages. Our approach uses a convolutional network to make core observations of the pose of the robot being tracked, which is sending messages. The observer robot then uses an adaptation of classical decoding methods to infer a message that is being transmitted. The system is trained and validated using simulated data, tested in the pool and is targeted for deployment in the open ocean. Our decoder achieves.94 precision and.66 recall on real footage of robot gesture execution recorded in a swimming pool.

Title: WISDOM: WIreless Sensing-assisted Distributed Online Mapping
Key Words: least mean squares methods  mobile robots  path planning  pose estimation  robot vision  SLAM (robots)  WISDOM  spatial sensing  robotics  augmented reality  urban spaces  wireless access points  coarse orientation  average Root Mean Square mapping error  wireless sensing-assisted distributed online mapping  robot swarm  custom ICP algorithm  absolute trajectory error  average root mean square mapping error  size 0.2 m  size 1.3 m  Three-dimensional displays  Simultaneous localization and mapping  Robot kinematics  Visualization  Merging 
Abstract: Spatial sensing is a fundamental requirement for applications in robotics and augmented reality. In urban spaces such as malls, airports, apartments, and others, it is quite challenging for a single robot to map the whole environment. So, we employ a swarm of robots to perform the mapping. One challenge with this approach is merging sub-maps built by each robot. In this work, we use wireless access points, which are ubiquitous in most urban spaces, to provide us with coarse orientation between sub-maps, and use a custom ICP algorithm to refine this orientation to merge them. We demonstrate our approach with maps from a building on campus and evaluate it using two metrics. Our results show that, in the building we studied, we can achieve an average Absolute Trajectory error of 0.2m in comparison to a map created by a single robot and average Root Mean Square mapping error of 1.3m from ground truth landmark locations.

Title: Learning Recursive Bayesian Nonparametric Modeling of Moving Targets via Mobile Decentralized Sensors
Key Words: Bayes methods  Gaussian processes  learning (artificial intelligence)  recursive estimation  sensor fusion  mobile decentralized sensors  multisensor applications  GP recursive fusion law  recursive DPGP fusion approach  data fusion  Gaussian processes  recursive Bayesian nonparametric modeling  Dirichlet process  Sensor fusion  Computational modeling  Gaussian processes  Time measurement  Kinematics  Velocity measurement 
Abstract: Bayesian nonparametric models, such as the Dirichlet Process Gaussian Process (DPGP), have been shown very effective at learning models of dynamic targets exclusively from data. Previous work on batch DPGP learning and inference, however, ceases to be efficient in multi-sensor applications that require decentralized measurements to be obtained sequentially over time. Batch processing, in this case, leads to redundant computations that may hinder online applicability. This paper develops a recursive approach for DPGP learning and inference in which a novel Dirichlet Process prior based on Wasserstein metric is used for measuring the similarity between multiple Gaussian Processes (GPs). Combined with the GP recursive fusion law, the proposed recursive DPGP fusion approach enables efficient online data fusion. The problem of active sensing for recursive DPGP learning and inference is also investigated by uncertainty reduction via expected mutual information. Simulation and experimental results show that the proposed approach successfully learns the models of moving targets and outperforms existing benchmark methods.

Title: UAV/UGV Autonomous Cooperation: UAV assists UGV to climb a cliff by attaching a tether
Key Words: autonomous aerial vehicles  collision avoidance  inertial navigation  mobile robots  off-road vehicles  robot vision  SLAM (robots)  Unmanned Aerial Vehicle  Unmanned Ground Vehicle  tether attachment device  steep terrain  tether anchoring  UGV autonomous cooperation  UAV autonomous cooperation  visual inertial navigation  collaborative navigation  3D voxel mapping  obstacle avoidance planning  traversability analysis  Robot sensing systems  Navigation  Three-dimensional displays  Unmanned aerial vehicles  Trajectory  Attitude control 
Abstract: This paper proposes a novel cooperative system for an Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV) and an Unmanned Ground Vehicle (UGV) which utilizes the UAV not only as a flying sensor but also as a tether attachment device. Two robots are connected with a tether, allowing the UAV to anchor the tether to a structure located at the top of a steep terrain, impossible to reach for UGVs. Thus, enhancing the poor traversability of the UGV by not only providing a wider range of scanning and mapping from the air, but also by allowing the UGV to climb steep terrains with the winding of the tether. In addition, we present an autonomous framework for the collaborative navigation and tether attachment in an unknown environment. The UAV employs visual inertial navigation with 3D voxel mapping and obstacle avoidance planning. The UGV makes use of the voxel map and generates an elevation map to execute path planning based on a traversability analysis. Furthermore, we compared the pros and cons of possible methods for the tether anchoring from multiple points of view. To increase the probability of successful anchoring, we evaluated the anchoring strategy with an experiment. Finally, the feasibility and capability of our proposed system were demonstrated by an autonomous mission experiment in the field with an obstacle and a cliff.

Title: Distributed Motion Tomography for Reconstruction of Flow Fields*
Key Words: inverse problems  linear systems  multi-agent systems  nonlinear equations  nonlinear systems  optimisation  distributed nonlinear Kaczmarz method  constrained consensus problem  gyre flow field  distributed motion tomography  mobile sensing agents  inverse problem  distributed multiagent systems  flow field reconstruction  nonlinear system of equations  optimization approach  linear system of equations  Trajectory  Mathematical model  Robot sensing systems  Optimization  Tomography  Estimation  Inverse problems 
Abstract: This paper considers a group of mobile sensing agents in a flow field and presents a distributed method for motion tomography (MT) that estimates the underlying flow field. MT formulates an underdetermined nonlinear system of equations as an inverse problem. Inspired by the Kaczmarz method which is an optimization approach for solving a linear system of equations, our previous work developed a nonlinear Kaczmarz method that solves the system of equations associated with MT. Considering distributed multi-agent systems for MT, this paper extends the nonlinear Kaczmarz method into a distributed framework. The distributed nonlinear Kaczmarz method is developed by formulating a constrained consensus problem that belongs to a class of projected consensus algorithms. To study the convergence and consensus for the method, its linear case is analyzed first and then its nonlinear case is discussed. The nonlinear case of the method is further validated through simulations by estimating a gyre flow field using mobile sensor networks with different numbers of neighboring agents. Resulting estimated flow fields are compared with a flow field estimated by its centralized counterpart.

Title: Who Takes What: Using RGB-D Camera and Inertial Sensor for Unmanned Monitor
Key Words: cameras  feature extraction  human computer interaction  image colour analysis  image matching  image sensors  Internet of Things  robot vision  video signal processing  WTW  IMU data  inertial sensor  RGB-d camera  unmanned monitor  IoT  human-environment interaction  Internet of Things  vision-based approaches  user-object matching  video recorded  Cameras  Skeleton  Feature extraction  Monitoring  Reliability  Trajectory  Robot sensing systems 
Abstract: Advanced Internet of Things (IoT) techniques have made human-environment interaction much easier. Existing solutions usually enable such interactions without knowing the identities of action performers. However, identifying users who are interacting with environments is a key to enable personalized service. To provide such add-on service, we propose WTW (who takes what), a system that identifies which user takes what object. Unlike traditional vision-based approaches, which are typically vulnerable to blockage, our WTW combines the feature information of three types of data, i.e., images, skeletons and IMU data, to enable reliable user-object matching and identification. By correlating the moving trajectory of a user monitored by inertial sensors with the movement of an object recorded in the video, our WTW reliably identifies a user and matches him/her with the object on action. Our prototype evaluation shows that WTW achieves a recognition rate of over 90% even in a crowd. The system is reliable even when users locate close by and take objects roughly at the same time.

Title: Sound-Indicated Visual Object Detection for Robotic Exploration
Key Words: acoustic signal detection  audio signal processing  microphones  mobile robots  neural net architecture  object detection  source separation  supervised learning  robotic exploration  microphones  cameras  physical world  visual modalities  audio modalities  robotic platforms  robotic sound-indicated visual object detection framework  two-stream weakly-supervised deep learning architecture  sounding object localization  AudioSet  Visualization  Object detection  Robots  Feature extraction  Task analysis  Semantics  Deep learning 
Abstract: Robots are usually equipped with microphones and cameras to perceive and understand the physical world. Though visual object detection technology has achieved great success, the detection in other modalities remains unsolved. In this paper, we establish a novel robotic sound-indicated visual object detection framework, and develop a two-stream weakly-supervised deep learning architecture to connect the visual and audio modalities for localizing the sounding object. A dataset is constructed from the AudioSet to validate the proposed method and some promising applications are demonstrated on robotic platforms.

Title: HG-DAgger: Interactive Imitation Learning with Human Experts
Key Words: learning (artificial intelligence)  HG-DAgger  interactive imitation learning  behavioral cloning  data mismatch  DAgger algorithm  sampling schemes  action labels  autonomous driving task  corrective actions  Safety  Cloning  Training  Measurement  Trajectory  Task analysis 
Abstract: Imitation learning has proven to be useful for many real-world problems, but approaches such as behavioral cloning suffer from data mismatch and compounding error issues. One attempt to address these limitations is the DAgger algorithm, which uses the state distribution induced by the novice to sample corrective actions from the expert. Such sampling schemes, however, require the expert to provide action labels without being fully in control of the system. This can decrease safety and, when using humans as experts, is likely to degrade the quality of the collected labels due to perceived actuator lag. In this work, we propose HG-DAgger, a variant of DAgger that is more suitable for interactive imitation learning from human experts in real-world systems. In addition to training a novice policy, HG-DAgger also learns a safety threshold for a model-uncertainty-based risk metric that can be used to predict the performance of the fully trained novice in different regions of the state space. We evaluate our method on both a simulated and real-world autonomous driving task, and demonstrate improved performance over both DAgger and behavioral cloning.

Title: Proximity Human-Robot Interaction Using Pointing Gestures and a Wrist-mounted IMU
Key Words: gesture recognition  human-robot interaction  mobile robots  pointed locations  slow ground robots  proximity human-robot interaction  pointing gestures  wrist-mounted IMU  co-located humans  mobile robots  moving robot  Robot kinematics  Robot sensing systems  Real-time systems  Drones  Trajectory  Mobile robots 
Abstract: We present a system for interaction between co-located humans and mobile robots, which uses pointing gestures sensed by a wrist-mounted IMU. The operator begins by pointing, for a short time, at a moving robot. The system thus simultaneously determines: that the operator wants to interact; the robot they want to interact with; and the relative pose among the two. Then, the system can reconstruct pointed locations in the robot's own reference frame, and provide real-time feedback about them so that the user can adapt to misalignments. We discuss the challenges to be solved to implement such a system and propose practical solutions, including variants for fast flying robots and slow ground robots. We report different experiments with real robots and untrained users, validating the individual components and the system as a whole.

Title: Lidar Measurement Bias Estimation via Return Waveform Modelling in a Context of 3D Mapping
Key Words: Gaussian distribution  optical radar  sensor fusion  multiple sensors  Robosense RS-LiDAR-16  accurate maps  lidar measurement bias estimation  return waveform modelling  zero-mean Gaussian distribution  localisation drifts  Laser radar  Laser beams  Two dimensional displays  Sensors  Laser modes  Robots  Computational modeling  Bias Estimation  Sensor Error Modelling  Waveform Modelling  LIDAR  3D Mapping 
Abstract: In a context of 3D mapping, it is very important to obtain accurate measurements from sensors. In particular, Light Detection And Ranging (LIDAR) measurements are typically treated as a zero-mean Gaussian distribution. We show that this assumption leads to predictable localisation drifts, especially when a bias related to measuring obstacles with high incidence angles is not taken into consideration. Moreover, we present a way to physically understand and model this bias, which generalizes to multiple sensors. Using an experimental setup, we measured the bias of the Sick LMS151, Velodyne HDL-32E, and Robosense RS-LiDAR-16 as a function of depth and incidence angle, and showed that the bias can reach 20 cm for high incidence angles. We then used our model to remove the bias from the measurements, leading to more accurate maps and a reduced localisation drift.

Title: An Extrinsic Calibration Tool for Radar, Camera and Lidar
Key Words: calibration  cameras  Gaussian noise  optical radar  pose estimation  probability  radar imaging  lidar  joint extrinsic calibration  sensing modalities  calibration target design  calibration procedure  multimodal measurements  optimization criterion  error terms  sensor pairs  calibration boards  calibration performance  camera errors  radar errors  extrinsic calibration tool  novel open-source tool  loop closure constraints  pose estimation  zero mean Gaussian noise  probabilistic model  Calibration  Cameras  Laser radar  Tools  Robot vision systems 
Abstract: We present a novel open-source tool for extrinsic calibration of radar, camera and lidar. Unlike currently available offerings, our tool facilitates joint extrinsic calibration of all three sensing modalities on multiple measurements. Furthermore, our calibration target design extends existing work to obtain simultaneous measurements for all these modalities. We study how various factors of the calibration procedure affect the outcome on real multi-modal measurements of the target. Three different configurations of the optimization criterion are considered, namely using error terms for a minimal amount of sensor pairs, or using terms for all sensor pairs with additional loop closure constraints, or by adding terms for structure estimation in a probabilistic model. The experiments further evaluate how the number of calibration boards affect calibration performance, and robustness against different levels of zero mean Gaussian noise. Our results show that all configurations achieve good results for lidar to camera errors and that fully connected pose estimation shows the best performance for lidar to radar errors when more than five board locations are used.

Title: Compensation of measurement noise and bias in geometric attitude estimation*
Key Words: approximation theory  geometry  Kalman filters  nonlinear filters  measurement noise  geometric attitude estimation  geometry-based analytic attitude estimation  single reference vector  rigid body attitude estimation  residual error  geometric solution  rate measurements  methodical perturbation analysis  bias estimator  nonlinear problem  optimal Kalman gain  vector measurement  linearization approximations  sxtended Kalman filter  Angular velocity  Velocity measurement  Noise measurement  Measurement uncertainty  Q measurement  Estimation  Quaternions 
Abstract: A geometry-based analytic attitude estimation using a rate measurement and measurement of a single reference vector has been recently proposed. Because rigid body attitude estimation is a fundamentally nonlinear problem, the geometry-based method does not contain errors consequent to linearization approximations. A critical source of residual error in the geometric solution is on account of the noise and bias in the vector and rate measurements. A methodical perturbation analysis of the attitude estimate is performed in this paper that reveals the effects of measurement noise and bias, and provides means to compensate for, or filter out, such errors. Application of the filter and compensation provides better attitude estimation than a standard Extended Kalman filter using an optimal Kalman gain. The geometric method is first verified in experiments and then simulation results are provided that validate the better performance of the geometric attitude and bias estimator.

Title: Hierarchical Depthwise Graph Convolutional Neural Network for 3D Semantic Segmentation of Point Clouds
Key Words: convolutional neural nets  feature extraction  graph theory  image segmentation  learning (artificial intelligence)  stereo image processing  hierarchical depthwise graph convolutional neural network  3D semantic segmentation  point clouds  point cloud semantic segmentation  depthwise convolution  pointwise convolution  local feature extraction  local features  global features  graph convolution  depthwise graph convolution  Three-dimensional displays  Convolution  Feature extraction  Semantics  Memory management  Shape  Convolutional neural networks 
Abstract: This paper proposes a hierarchical depthwise graph convolutional neural network (HDGCN) for point cloud semantic segmentation. The main chanllenge for learning on point clouds is to capture local structures or relationships. Graph convolution has the strong ability to extract local shape information from neighbors. Inspired by depthwise convolution, we propose a depthwise graph convolution which requires less memory consumption compared with the previous graph convolution. While depthwise graph convolution aggregates features channel-wisely, pointwise convolution is used to learn features across different channels. A customized block called DGConv is specially designed for local feature extraction based on depthwise graph convolution and pointwise convolution. The DGConv block can extract features from points and transfer features to neighbors while being invariant to different point orders. HDGCN is constructed by a series of DGConv blocks using a hierarchical structure which can extract both local and global features of point clouds. Experiments show that HDGCN achieves the state-of-the-art performance in the indoor dataset S3DIS and the outdoor dataset Paris-Lille-3D.

Title: CELLO-3D: Estimating the Covariance of ICP in the Real World
Key Words: covariance analysis  covariance matrices  data analysis  image registration  iterative methods  state estimation  CELLO-3D  state estimation frameworks  closed-form covariance estimation algorithms  data-driven approach  uncertainty estimation  closed-form solutions  covariance estimation and learning through likelihood optimization framework  iterative closest point registrations  3D datasets  ICP registrations  real 3D point clouds  Three-dimensional displays  Estimation  Linear programming  Uncertainty  Prediction algorithms  Measurement  Computational modeling 
Abstract: The fusion of Iterative Closest Point (ICP) registrations in existing state estimation frameworks relies on an accurate estimation of their uncertainty. In this paper, we study the estimation of this uncertainty in the form of a covariance. First, we scrutinize the limitations of existing closed-form covariance estimation algorithms over 3D datasets. Then, we set out to estimate the covariance of ICP registrations through a data-driven approach, with over 5100000 registrations on 1020 pairs from real 3D point clouds. We assess our solution upon a wide spectrum of environments, ranging from structured to unstructured and indoor to outdoor. The capacity of our algorithm to predict covariances is accurately assessed, as well as the usefulness of these estimations for uncertainty estimation over trajectories. The proposed method estimates covariances better than existing closed-form solutions, and makes predictions that are consistent with observed trajectories.

Title: Low-latency Visual SLAM with Appearance-Enhanced Local Map Building
Key Words: file organisation  image enhancement  image fusion  mobile robots  pose estimation  robot vision  SLAM (robots)  appearance-enhanced local map building  local map module  local map contents  co-visibility local map building  compact local map  downstream data association  mapped features  local map size  appearance-based local map building method  low-latency visual SLAM  pose estimation  multi-index hashing  online hash table selection algorithm  MIH  VO-VSLAM mean performance  Three-dimensional displays  Buildings  Optimization  Feature extraction  Indexing  Simultaneous localization and mapping 
Abstract: A local map module is often implemented in modern VO/VSLAM systems to improve data association and pose estimation. Conventionally, the local map contents are determined by co-visibility. While co-visibility is cheap to establish, it utilizes the relatively-weak temporal prior (i.e. seen before, likely to be seen now), therefore admitting more features into the local map than necessary. This paper describes an enhancement to co-visibility local map building by incorporating a strong appearance prior, which leads to a more compact local map and latency reduction in downstream data association. The appearance prior collected from the current image influences the local map contents: only the map features visually similar to the current measurements are potentially useful for data association. To that end, mapped features are indexed and queried with Multi-index Hashing (MIH). An online hash table selection algorithm is developed to further reduce the query overhead of MIH and the local map size. The proposed appearance-based local map building method is integrated into a state-of-the-art VO/VSLAM system. When evaluated on two public benchmarks, the size of the local map, as well as the latency of real-time pose tracking in VO/VSLAM are significantly reduced. Meanwhile, the VO/VSLAM mean performance is preserved or improves.

Title: Incremental Visual-Inertial 3D Mesh Generation with Structural Regularities
Key Words: computational complexity  computational geometry  graph theory  mesh generation  mobile robots  optimisation  robot vision  SLAM (robots)  state estimation  structural regularities  point cloud representation  tightly couple mesh regularization  VIO optimization  per-frame approach  visual-inertial odometry algorithms  visual-inertial 3D mesh generation  decouple state estimation  factor-graph formulation  computational complexity  memory usage  localization accuracy  Three-dimensional displays  Optimization  Two dimensional displays  State estimation  Cameras  Histograms  Mesh generation  SLAM  Vision-Based Navigation  Sensor Fusion 
Abstract: Visual-Inertial Odometry (VIO) algorithms typically rely on a point cloud representation of the scene that does not model the topology of the environment. A 3D mesh instead offers a richer, yet lightweight, model. Nevertheless, building a 3D mesh out of the sparse and noisy 3D landmarks triangulated by a VIO algorithm often results in a mesh that does not fit the real scene. In order to regularize the mesh, previous approaches decouple state estimation from the 3D mesh regularization step, and either limit the 3D mesh to the current frame [1], [2] or let the mesh grow indefinitely [3], [4]. We propose instead to tightly couple mesh regularization and state estimation by detecting and enforcing structural regularities in a novel factor-graph formulation. We also propose to incrementally build the mesh by restricting its extent to the time-horizon of the VIO optimization; the resulting 3D mesh covers a larger portion of the scene than a per-frame approach while its memory usage and computational complexity remain bounded. We show that our approach successfully regularizes the mesh, while improving localization accuracy, when structural regularities are present, and remains operational in scenes without regularities.

Title: Unsupervised Out-of-context Action Understanding
Key Words: convolutional neural nets  image sequences  motion estimation  unsupervised learning  human action  video sequence  unsupervised label  synthetic databases  unsupervised learning method  O2CA ground truth  SURREAL-O2CA  unsupervised out-of-context action understanding  Databases  Unsupervised learning  Sports  Context modeling  Legged locomotion  Video sequences 
Abstract: The paper presents an unsupervised out-of-context action (O2CA) paradigm that is based on facilitating understanding by separately presenting both human action and context within a video sequence. As a means of generating an unsupervised label, we comprehensively evaluate responses from action-based (ActionNet) and context-based (ContextNet) convolutional neural networks (CNNs). Additionally, we have created three synthetic databases based on the human action (UCF101, HMDB51) and motion capture (mocap) (SURREAL) datasets. We then conducted experimental comparisons between our approach and conventional approaches. We also compared our unsupervised learning method with supervised learning using an O2CA ground truth given by synthetic data. From the results obtained, we achieved a 96.8 score on Synth-UCF, a 96.8 score on Synth-HMDB, and 89.0 on SURREAL-O2CA with F-score.

Title: Air-to-Ground Surveillance Using Predictive Pursuit
Key Words: autonomous aerial vehicles  Markov processes  mobile robots  object tracking  path planning  surveillance  target tracking  air-to-ground surveillance  predictive pursuit  Markov decision process  tracking time  location detection accuracy  air-to-ground robot surveillance scenario  surveillance algorithms  camera  unmanned ground vehicle  UGV  observed path  pursuit algorithm  target localization  high predictive accuracy  Planning  Surveillance  Markov processes  Prediction algorithms  Trajectory  Measurement  Drones 
Abstract: This paper introduces a probabilistic prediction model with a novel variant of the Markov decision process to improve tracking time and location detection accuracy in an air-to-ground robot surveillance scenario. While most surveillance algorithms focus mainly on controls of an unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV) and camera for faster tracking of an unmanned ground vehicle (UGV), this paper proposes a way of minimizing detection and tracking time by applying a prediction model to the first observed path taken by the UGV. We present a pursuit algorithm that addresses the problem of target (UGV) localization by combining prediction of used planning algorithm by the target, and application of the same planning algorithm to predict future trajectories. Our results show a high predictive accuracy based on a final position attained by the target and the location predicted by our model.

Title: Online Planning for Target Object Search in Clutter under Partial Observability
Key Words: manipulators  Markov processes  Monte Carlo methods  path planning  PA-POMCP algorithm  action partially observable Monte-Carlo planning  object movements  manipulation actions  partially observable Markov decision process  target object search task  partial observability  online planning  Search problems  Task analysis  Robot sensing systems  Robot kinematics  Uncertainty  Three-dimensional displays 
Abstract: The problem of finding and grasping a target object in a cluttered, uncertain environment, target object search, is a common and important problem in robotics. One key challenge is the uncertainty of locating and recognizing each object in a cluttered environment due to noisy perception and occlusions. Furthermore, the uncertainty in localization makes manipulation difficult and uncertain. To cope with these challenges, we formulate the target object search task as a partially observable Markov decision process (POMDP), enabling the robot to reason about perceptual and manipulation uncertainty while searching. To further address the manipulation difficulty, we propose Parameterized Action Partially Observable Monte-Carlo Planning (PA-POMCP), an algorithm that evaluates manipulation actions by taking into account the effect of the robot's current belief on the success of the action execution. In addition, a novel run-time initial belief generator and a state value estimator are introduced in this paper to facilitate the PA-POMCP algorithm. Our experiments show that our methods solve the target object search task in settings where simpler methods either take more object movements or fail.

Title: Learning to Drive in a Day
Key Words: learning (artificial intelligence)  mobile robots  road safety  road traffic control  road vehicles  robot vision  autonomous driving tasks  single monocular image  safety driver  model-free deep reinforcement learning algorithm  lane following  on-vehicle  Reinforcement learning  Autonomous vehicles  Task analysis  Markov processes  Global Positioning System  Sensors  Training 
Abstract: We demonstrate the first application of deep reinforcement learning to autonomous driving. From randomly initialised parameters, our model is able to learn a policy for lane following in a handful of training episodes using a single monocular image as input. We provide a general and easy to obtain reward: the distance travelled by the vehicle without the safety driver taking control. We use a continuous, model-free deep reinforcement learning algorithm, with all exploration and optimisation performed on-vehicle. This demonstrates a new framework for autonomous driving which moves away from reliance on defined logical rules, mapping, and direct supervision. We discuss the challenges and opportunities to scale this approach to a broader range of autonomous driving tasks.

Title: Generating Adversarial Driving Scenarios in High-Fidelity Simulators
Key Words: automobile industry  Bayes methods  computer vision  control engineering computing  learning (artificial intelligence)  mobile robots  optimisation  program testing  road traffic  road vehicles  traffic engineering computing  transportation  self-driving policy  simulated pedestrians  self-driving behavior  high-fidelity simulators  public roads  software tests  self-driving software  adversarial self-driving scenarios  self-driving vehicles  transportation systems  simulated driving scenarios  driving scenario generation  self-driving car industry  Bayesian optimization  vision-based imitation learning  Optimization  Accidents  Rendering (computer graphics)  Bayes methods  Reinforcement learning  Roads  Trajectory 
Abstract: In recent years self-driving vehicles have become more commonplace on public roads, with the promise of bringing safety and efficiency to modern transportation systems. Increasing the reliability of these vehicles on the road requires an extensive suite of software tests, ideally performed on high-fidelity simulators, where multiple vehicles and pedestrians interact with the self-driving vehicle. It is therefore of critical importance to ensure that self-driving software is assessed against a wide range of challenging simulated driving scenarios. The state of the art in driving scenario generation, as adopted by some of the front-runners of the self-driving car industry, still relies on human input [1]. In this paper we propose to automate the process using Bayesian optimization to generate adversarial self-driving scenarios that expose poorly-engineered or poorly-trained self-driving policies, and increase the risk of collision with simulated pedestrians and vehicles. We show that by incorporating the generated scenarios into the training set of the self-driving policy, and by fine-tuning the policy using vision-based imitation learning we obtain safer self-driving behavior.

Title: Data-Driven Contact Clustering for Robot Simulation
Key Words: control engineering computing  force sensors  learning (artificial intelligence)  multilayer perceptrons  optimisation  pattern clustering  robots  data-driven contact clustering  rigid-body robot simulation  multilayer perceptron network  constraint-based optimization contact solver  contact simulation  data-driven learning-based contact clustering  force sensors  torque sensors  MLP network  Force  Numerical models  Robot sensing systems  Data models  Numerical stability  Optimization 
Abstract: We propose a novel data-driven learning-based contact clustering (i.e., of contact points and contact normals) framework for rigid-body robot simulation, with its accuracy established/verified by real experimental data. We first construct an experimental robotic setup with force/torque (F/T) sensors to collect real contact motion/force data. We then design a multilayer perceptron (MLP) network for the contact clustering based on the full motion and force/torque information of the contacts. We also adopt the constraint-based optimization contact solver to facilitate the learning of our MLP network during the training. Our proposed data-driven/learning-based contact clustering framework is then verified against the experimental setup, compared with other techniques/simulators and shown to significantly (or meaningfully) enhance the accuracy of contact simulation as compared to them.

Title: Pavilion: Bridging Photo-Realism and Robotics
Key Words: control engineering computing  image sequences  mobile robots  sensor fusion  virtual reality  Pavilion  bridging photo-realism  robotics  sensor fusion  robot control  novel open-source simulation system  robot perception  kinematic control  ROS  shader-based method  optical flow ground-truth data  Gazebo-compatible real-time simulation system  control algorithms  simulation environment  state-of-the-art simulators  simulation accuracy  simulation environments  unreal engine  simulation description format robot models  robot operating system  Engines  Robot sensing systems  Data models  Real-time systems  Pipelines  Optical sensors 
Abstract: Simulation environments play a centric role in the research of sensor fusion and robot control. This paper presents Pavilion, a novel open-source simulation system, for robot perception and kinematic control based on the Unreal Engine and the Robot Operating System (ROS). The novelty of this work includes threefold: (1) developing a shader-based method to generate optical flow ground-truth data with the Unreal Engine, (2) developing a toolset to remove binary incompatibility between ROS and the Unreal Engine to enable real-time interaction, and (3) developing a method to directly import Simulation Description Format (SDF) robot models into the Unreal Engine at runtime. Finally, a Gazebo-compatible real-time simulation system is developed to enable training and evaluation of a large number of sensor fusion, planning, decision and control algorithms. The system can be implemented on both Linux and macOS, with the latest version of ROS. Various experiments have been performed to validate the superior performance of the proposed simulation environment over other state-of-the-art simulators in terms of number of modalities, simulation accuracy, latency and degree of integration difficulty.

Title: A Real-Time Interactive Augmented Reality Depth Estimation Technique for Surgical Robotics
Key Words: augmented reality  kinematics  medical computing  medical robotics  surgery  Stereo-No CDE  CDE technique  forward kinematics joint encoder data  surgical field  virtual surgical instrument method  AR technique  blue-red color spectrum  tissue surface  tumor  medical abnormality  surgical robotics  color depth encoding  real-time interactive augmented reality depth estimation  Tools  Robots  Tumors  Image color analysis  Cameras  Instruments  Biomedical imaging 
Abstract: Augmented reality (AR) is a promising technology where the surgeon can see the medical abnormality in the context of the patient. It makes the anatomy of interest visible to the surgeon which otherwise is not visible. It can result in better surgical precision and therefore, potentially better surgical outcomes and faster recovery times. Despite these benefits, the current AR systems suffer from two major challenges; first, incorrect depth perception and, second, the lack of suitable evaluation systems. Therefore, in the current paper we addressed both of these problems. We proposed a color depth encoding (CDE) technique to estimate the distance between the tumor and the tissue surface using a surgical instrument. We mapped the distance between the tumor and the tissue surface to the blue-red color spectrum. For evaluation and interaction with our AR technique, we propose to use a virtual surgical instrument method using the CAD model of the instrument. The users were asked to reach the judged distance in the surgical field using the virtual tool. Realistic tool movement was simulated by collecting the forward kinematics joint encoder data. The results showed significant improvement in depth estimation, time for task completion and confidence, using our CDE technique with and without stereo versus other two cases, that are, Stereo-No CDE and No Stereo-No CDE.

Title: Force-based Heterogeneous Traffic Simulation for Autonomous Vehicle Testing
Key Words: computer simulation  control engineering computing  driver information systems  mobile robots  road safety  road traffic control  road vehicles  traffic engineering computing  self-driving tests  force-based concept  heterogenous traffic simulation  realistic urban environment  personal mobility devices  pedestrians  autonomous vehicles  traffic control  high-fidelity driving simulator  autonomous vehicle testing  force-based heterogeneous traffic simulation  Force  Autonomous vehicles  Roads  Acceleration  Bicycles  Testing  Urban areas 
Abstract: Recent failures in real-world self-driving tests have suggested a paradigm shift from directly learning in real-world roads to building a high-fidelity driving simulator as an alternative, effective, and safe tool to handle intricate traffic environments in urban areas. To date, traffic simulation can construct virtual urban environments with various weather conditions, day and night, and traffic control for autonomous vehicle testing. However, mutual interactions between autonomous vehicles and pedestrians are rarely modeled in existing simulators. Besides vehicles and pedestrians, the usage of personal mobility devices is increasing in congested cities as an alternative to the traditional transport system. A simulator that considers all potential road-users in a realistic urban environment is urgently desired. In this work, we propose a novel, extensible, and microscopic method to build heterogenous traffic simulation using the force-based concept. This force-based approach can accurately replicate the sophisticated behaviors of various road users and their interactions through a simple and unified way. Furthermore, we validate our approach through simulation experiments and comparisons to the popular simulators currently used for research and development of autonomous vehicles.

Title: Dual Refinement Network for Single-Shot Object Detection
Key Words: convolutional neural nets  object detection  single-stage detector  dual refinement network  anchor refinement  single-shot object detection  object detection methods  two-stage detectors  anchor-offset detection  PASCAL VOC  ImageNet VID datasets  Feature extraction  Detectors  Head  Proposals  Object detection  Fuses  Pipelines 
Abstract: Object detection methods fall into two categories, i.e., two-stage and single-stage detectors. The former is characterized by high detection accuracy while the latter usually has a considerable inference speed. Hence, it is imperative to fuse their merits for a better accuracy vs. speed trade-off. To this end, we propose a dual refinement network (DRN) to boost the performance of the single-stage detector. Inheriting from the advantages of two-stage approaches (i.e., two-step regression and accurate features for detection), anchor refinement and feature offset refinement are conducted in a novel anchor-offset detection, where the detection head is comprised of deformable convolutions. Moreover, to leverage contextual information for describing objects, we design a multi-deformable head, in which multiple detection paths with different receptive field sizes devote themselves to detecting objects. Extensive experiments on PASCAL VOC and ImageNet VID datasets are conducted, and we achieve a state-of-the-art detection performance in terms of both accuracy and inference speed.

Title: Distant Vehicle Detection Using Radar and Vision
Key Words: cameras  computer vision  convolutional neural nets  image capture  object detection  road vehicle radar  distant vehicle detection  autonomous vehicles  convolutional neural networks  image-based object detectors  radar data  vision  KITTI  cameras  focal lengths  Cameras  Radar imaging  Detectors  Object detection  Doppler radar  Training 
Abstract: For autonomous vehicles to be able to operate successfully they need to be aware of other vehicles with sufficient time to make safe, stable plans. Given the possible closing speeds between two vehicles, this necessitates the ability to accurately detect distant vehicles. Many current image-based object detectors using convolutional neural networks exhibit excellent performance on existing datasets such as KITTI. However, the performance of these networks falls when detecting small (distant) objects. We demonstrate that incorporating radar data can boost performance in these difficult situations. We also introduce an efficient automated method for training data generation using cameras of different focal lengths.

Title: Customizing Object Detectors for Indoor Robots
Key Words: control engineering computing  convolutional neural nets  helicopters  neurocontrollers  object detection  robot vision  indoor robots  object detection models  convolutional neural networks  large-scale labeled datasets  training data  DUNet  dense upscaled network  Detectors  Object detection  Robots  Feature extraction  Labeling  Computer architecture  Task analysis 
Abstract: Object detection models based on convolutional neural networks (CNNs) demonstrate impressive performance when trained on large-scale labeled datasets. While a generic object detector trained on such a dataset performs adequately in applications where the input data is similar to user photographs, the detector performs poorly on small objects, particularly ones with limited training data or imaged from uncommon viewpoints. Also, a specific room will have many objects that are missed by standard object detectors, frustrating a robot that continually operates in the same indoor environment.This paper describes a system for rapidly creating customized object detectors. Data is collected from a quadcopter that is teleoperated with an interactive interface. Once an object is selected, the quadcopter autonomously photographs the object from multiple viewpoints to collect data to train DUNet (Dense Upscaled Network), our proposed model for learning customized object detectors from scratch given limited data. Our experiments compare the performance of learning models from scratch with DUNet vs. fine tuning existing state of the art object detectors, both on our indoor robotics domain and on standard datasets.

Title: Semi Supervised Deep Quick Instance Detection and Segmentation
Key Words: convolutional neural nets  data acquisition  image segmentation  object detection  supervised learning  class-agnostic object detection  semisupervised labeling  occlusion aware clutter synthesis  online learning  semisupervised deep quick instance detection  semisupervised deep quick learning framework  data acquisition  convolutional neural network  pixelwise semantic segmentation  Image segmentation  Task analysis  Object segmentation  Clutter  Semantics  Labeling  Object detection 
Abstract: In this paper, we present a semi supervised deep quick learning framework for instance detection and pixelwise semantic segmentation of images in a dense clutter of items. The framework can quickly and incrementally learn novel items in an online manner by real-time data acquisition and generating corresponding ground truths on its own. To learn various combinations of items, it can synthesize cluttered scenes, in real time. The overall approach is based on the tutor-child analogy in which a deep network (tutor) is pretrained for class-agnostic object detection which generates labeled data for another deep network (child). The child utilizes a customized convolutional neural network head for the purpose of quick learning. There are broadly four key components of the proposed framework: semi supervised labeling, occlusion aware clutter synthesis, a customized convolutional neural network head, and instance detection. The initial version of this framework was implemented during our participation in Amazon Robotics Challenge (ARC), 2017. Our system was ranked 3rd rd, 4th and 5 th worldwide in pick, stow-pick and stow task respectively. The proposed framework is an improved version over ARC'17 where novel features such as instance detection and online learning has been added.

Title: Mixed Frame-/Event-Driven Fast Pedestrian Detection
Key Words: cameras  computer vision  convolutional neural nets  image fusion  image sensors  pedestrians  traffic engineering computing  conventional frame-based camera  bad light condition  high-speed motion  gray-scale frames  traffic monitoring scenario  YOLOv3 models  YOLO-tiny models  confidence map fusion method  CNN-based detection results  DAVIS channels  intelligent transportation system  mixed frame-event-driven fast pedestrian detection  ITS  frame-based camera  dynamic and active pixel sensor  asynchronous low-latency temporal contrast events  convolutional neural networks  TUM campus  Voltage control  Vision sensors  Feature extraction  Neuromorphics  Cameras  Object detection 
Abstract: Pedestrian detection has attracted enormous research attention in the field of Intelligent Transportation System (ITS) due to that pedestrians are the most vulnerable traffic participants. So far, almost all pedestrian detection solutions are based on the conventional frame-based camera. However, they cannot perform very well in scenarios with bad light condition and high-speed motion. In this work, a Dynamic and Active Pixel Sensor (DAVIS), whose two channels concurrently output conventional gray-scale frames and asynchronous low-latency temporal contrast events of light intensity, was first used to detect pedestrians in a traffic monitoring scenario. Data from two camera channels were fed into Convolutional Neural Networks (CNNs) including three YOLOv3 models and three YOLO-tiny models to gather bounding boxes of pedestrians with respective confidence map. Furthermore, a confidence map fusion method combining the CNN-based detection results from both DAVIS channels was proposed to obtain higher accuracy. The experiments were conducted on a custom dataset collected on TUM campus. Benefiting from the high speed, low latency and wide dynamic range of the event channel, our method achieved higher frame rate and lower latency than those only using a conventional camera. Additionally, it reached higher average precision by using the fusion approach.

Title: Real-Time Vehicle Detection from Short-range Aerial Image with Compressed MobileNet
Key Words: feature extraction  mobile computing  motorcycles  neural nets  object detection  road vehicles  traffic engineering computing  MobileNet family network engineering  compressed MobileNet  feature map downsampling stage  feature map plateau stage  reduced inference time  vehicle categories  crowded bicycles  high detection accuracy  real-time detection speed  real time vehicle detection  object interference  short-range aerial image  crowded motorcycles  truck  car  bus  Convolution  Neural networks  Proposals  Vehicle detection  Object detection  Computational modeling  Feature extraction 
Abstract: Vehicle detection from short-range aerial image faces challenges including vehicle blocking, irrelevant object interference, motion blurring, color variation etc., leading to the difficulty to achieve high detection accuracy and real-time detection speed. In this paper, benefiting from the recent development in MobileNet family network engineering, we propose a compressed MobileNet which is not only internally resistant to the above listed challenges but also gains the best detection accuracy/speed tradeoff when comparing with the original MobileNet. In a nutshell, we reduce the bottleneck architecture number during the feature map downsampling stage but add more bottlenecks during the feature map plateau stage, neither extra FLOPs nor parameters are thus involved but reduced inference time and better accuracy are expected. We conduct experiment on our collected 5-k short-range aerial images, containing six vehicle categories: truck, car, bus, bicycle, motorcycle, crowded bicycles and crowded motorcycles. Our proposed compressed MobileNet achieves 110 FPS (GPU), 31 FPS (CPU) and 15 FPS (mobile phone), 1.2 times faster and 2% more accurate (mAP) than the original MobileNet.

Title: Guaranteed Active Constraints Enforcement on Point Cloud-approximated Regions for Surgical Applications
Key Words: end effectors  force control  haptic interfaces  human-robot interaction  manipulator dynamics  medical robotics  mobile robots  path planning  surgery  point cloud-approximated regions  surgical applications  human-robot interaction controller  pHRI  sensitive tissues  restricted region  constraint enforcement  interaction force  constraint satisfaction  KUKA LWR4+ robot  3D point-cloud  artificial potential fields  active constraint enforcement  kinesthetic guidance  KUKA LWR4+ robot end-effector  KUKA virtual slave  Tools  Force  Three-dimensional displays  Surgery  End effectors  Stability analysis 
Abstract: In this work, a passive physical human-robot interaction (pHRI) controller is proposed to intraoperatively ensure that sensitive tissues will not be damaged by the robot's tool. The proposed scheme uses the point cloud of the restricted region's surface as constraint definition and Artificial Potential fields for constraint enforcement. The controller is proven to be passive with respect to the interaction force and to guarantee constraint satisfaction in all cases. The proposed methodology is experimentally validated by the kinesthetic guidance of a KUKA LWR4+ robot's end-effector driving a virtual slave KUKA in the vicinity of a 3D point-cloud of a kidney and its adjacent vessels.

Title: Designing an Accurate and Customizable Epidural Anesthesia Haptic Simulator
Key Words: computer simulation  haptic interfaces  medical computing  pneumatic cylinder  electrical haptic interface  epidural anesthesia haptic simulator  medical procedure  Needles  Haptic interfaces  Force  Anesthesia  Prototypes  Bones  Training 
Abstract: Epidural anesthesia, despite being a relatively common medical procedure, remains quite demanding in terms of skills as it is mostly blind and thus heavily reliant on the haptic sensations. Although some training support solutions exist, anesthetists consider them mostly inefficient or impractical. A few attempts at creating a simulator for this particular procedure exist but each one lacks one of the important requirements of the procedure. This article introduces a haptic simulator featuring a more complete and realistic simulation of the procedure than we could observe in existing simulators. The simulator is composed of a generic electrical haptic interface coupled with a pneumatic cylinder.

Title: Sleeve Pneumatic Artificial Muscles for Antagonistically Actuated Joints
Key Words: biomechanics  medical robotics  muscle  orthotics  pneumatic actuators  PAM types  sleeve pneumatic artificial muscles  paper sleeve PAMs  popular muscle configuration  joint rotation  traditional PAMs  joint configuration  antagonistically actuated joints  Muscles  Force  Torque  Actuators  Fitting  Pulleys  Bladder 
Abstract: Pneumatic artificial muscles (PAMs) have been researched for applications in powered exoskeletons, orthosis and robotics. Their high force to mass ratio, low cost and inherent compliance are particularly advantageous for systems requiring physical interaction with humans.Sleeve PAMs, which introduce an internal structure to the actuator, offer improved force capacity, contraction ratio, efficiency and operating bandwidth. In this paper sleeve PAMs are applied to a popular muscle configuration; that of a joint operated antagonistically by two muscles. It is shown that the sleeve PAM can increases the range of joint rotation by 14% or load capacity by over 50% of that of a comparable joint actuated with traditional PAMs, depending on the joint configuration. The stiffness of joints actuated with both PAM types is also studied, particularly the case of closed system operation (mass of air in the PAMs is constant), where the reduced volume of the sleeve PAM significantly increases the observed stiffness. Finally energy consumption is considered, showing substantial savings in the case of joints actuated with sleeve PAMs.

Title: Sensing Shear Forces During Food Manipulation: Resolving the Trade-Off Between Range and Sensitivity
Key Words: dexterous manipulators  force feedback  force sensors  grippers  haptic interfaces  sensors  shear strength  tactile sensors  bite acquisition success  shear forces  food manipulation  autonomous assistive feeding systems  deformable food items  force feedback  shear sensing fingertip tactile sensors  sensing range  bite acquisition successes  robotic gripper  varying weights  compliance  Tactile sensors  Sensitivity  Force  Calibration  Force measurement 
Abstract: Autonomous assistive feeding systems need to acquire deformable food items of varying physical characteristics to be able to feed users. However, bite acquisition of these deformable food items is challenging without force feedback of appropriate range and sensitivity. We developed custom solutions using two widely-used shear sensing fingertip tactile sensors and calibrated them to the range of forces needed for manipulating food items. We compared their performance with traditional force/torque sensors and showed the trade-off between the range and the sensitivity of the fingertip tactile sensors in detecting potential bite acquisition successes for food items with widely varying weights and compliance. We then developed a control policy, using which a robotic gripper equipped with the fingertip tactile sensors can autonomously regulate the sensing range and the sensitivity to be able to skewer food items of different compliance and detect their bite acquisition success attempts.

Title: Benchmarking Resilience of Artificial Hands
Key Words: actuators  dexterous manipulators  end effectors  human-robot interaction  impact testing  prosthetics  artificial hands  harsh interactions  irregular physical interactions  disaster scenario  standardized test  hand resilience  impact tests  standard test  robot hands  resilience evaluation framework  Resilience  Soft robotics  Robustness  Strain  Standards  Prosthetics 
Abstract: The deployment of robotics in real-world scenarios, which may involve harsh and irregular physical interactions with the environment, such as those when robots operating in a disaster scenario, or the interactions that prosthetic devices may experience, demands hardware, which is physically resilient. The end-effectors, as the main media of interaction, are probably the parts at the highest risk. The capability of robotic hands to survive severe impacts is thus a necessity for the effective deployment of reliable robotic solutions in real-world tasks. Although, this robustness capability has been noted and discussed in the robotics community for long time, the literature does not provide a systematic study nor there is any proposal of standardized test or metric to evaluate hand resilience. In this work, inspired by the works of Charpy and Izod for the systematic definition of resilience and toughness of materials through impact tests, we consider extending the standard test to robot hands. We introduce a resilience evaluation framework, including a precisely defined experimental set-up and test procedure. As an example of application of the procedure, we apply it to experimentally characterize two robot hands, with a similar conceptual architecture but different size and material. From these tests we obtain several insights, including the observation that the dominant factor in hand resilience is their compliance and actuation principle, and that the use, under certain design conditions, of lightweight materials, such as plastic instead of aluminum, may not necessarily reduce the mechanical strength of the overall system.

Title: CHiMP: A Contact based Hilbert Map Planner
Key Words: gradient methods  manipulators  mobile robots  path planning  robot vision  stochastic processes  tactile sensors  multimodal robot skin  contact-based robot system  skin compliant control  tactile-based explorative behavior  CHiMP  skin-based sparse contact data  contact-based 3D path planning approach  6 DOF robot arm  stochastic functional gradient path planner  contact based Hilbert map planner  manipulators  Trajectory  Skin  Planning  Kernel  Robot sensing systems  Cost function 
Abstract: This work presents a new contact-based 3D path planning approach for manipulators using robot skin. We make use of the Stochastic Functional Gradient Path Planner, extending it to the 3D case, and assess its usefulness in combination with multi-modal robot skin. Our proposed algorithm is verified on a 6 DOF robot arm that has been covered with multi-modal robot skin. The experimental platform is combined with a skin based compliant controller, making the robot inherently reactive. We implement different state-of-the-art planners within our contact-based robot system to compare their performance under the same conditions. In this way, all the planners use the same skin compliant control during evaluation. Furthermore, we extend the stochastic planner with tactile-based explorative behavior to improve its performance, especially for unknown environments. We show that CHiMP is able to outperform state of the art algorithms when working with skin-based sparse contact data.

Title: A Novel Reconfigurable Revolute Joint with Adjustable Stiffness
Key Words: elasticity  mechanical engineering computing  springs (mechanical)  adjustable stiffness  JASR  zero-length base link four-bar linkage  hard-spring behaviour  light-weight structure  design parameters  reconfigurable revolute joint  Springs  Rubber  Pins  Shafts  Couplings  Robots  Solid modeling 
Abstract: In this paper, a novel revolute joint of adjustable stiffness with reconfigurability (JASR) is presented. The JASR is designed with zero-length base link four-bar linkage, and allows adjusting its stiffness to achieve soft- and hard-spring behaviour. The new joint has a compact and light-weight structure and can be integrated in robot and transmissions for different applications. In the paper, mathematical models are developed for the JASR, with which influences of design parameters on stiffness performance are analyzed. A prototype of JASR is constructed and preliminary test results demonstrate the compliance properties of the new joint.

Title: A novel force sensor with zero stiffness at contact transition based on optical line generation
Key Words: fibre optic sensors  force sensors  medical robotics  zero stiffness  contact transition  optical line generation  robotic system  stiff environment  passive compliance  robot control  optical measurement process  compliant sensor body  force sensor  medical robotization  low off-axis sensitivity  additive manufacturing  Springs  Optical variables measurement  Optical sensors  Laser beams  Robot sensing systems  Force  Force sensors 
Abstract: Robotization of medical acts often requires the evaluation of contacts between a robotic system and a patient, for safety or efficiency reasons. When contact occurs with a stiff environment, instabilities and vibrations can appear and a passive compliance is therefore needed. In this paper, we propose to embed compliance in a force sensor and to develop a novel force sensor with large compliance, i.e. a zero stiffness at contact transition to ease robot control. To get at the same time a satisfying measurement range and low off-axis sensitivity, an optical measurement process based on an optical line generated thanks to additive manufacturing is exploited. A compliant sensor body allowing the desired stiffness profile is presented and the specific optical measurement technique is developed. Finally, a prototype of the proposed force sensor is evaluated experimentally.

Title: Hydraulically-actuated compliant revolute joint for medical robotic systems based on multimaterial additive manufacturing
Key Words: biomedical MRI  compliance control  design engineering  hydraulic actuators  manipulator kinematics  medical image processing  medical robotics  polymers  rapid prototyping (industrial)  telerobotics  three-dimensional printing  hydraulic cylinder  hydraulically-actuated compliant revolute joint  medical robotic systems  multimaterial additive manufacturing  hydraulic energy  seal design  miniature hydraulic cylinders  rack-and-pinion mechanism  magnetic resonance imaging  Gears  Hydraulic systems  Robots  Standards  Shape  Force  Three-dimensional printing 
Abstract: In this paper, an active compliant revolute joint actuated by hydraulic energy is developed. The joint is made of polymer for integration in medical robotic systems, even in a challenging environment such as Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI). The use of multimaterial additive manufacturing allows us to develop two original aspects. First, a new seal design is proposed to build miniature hydraulic cylinders embedded in the active joint, with low level of friction. Second, a rack-and-pinion mechanism is being integrated to a compliant revolute joint to obtain a high level of compactness. Design and experimental assessment of the hydraulic cylinder and the compliant joint with embedded rack-and-pinion are presented, as well as an illustration in the context of needle manipulation with passive teleoperation.

Title: Model-Based On-line Estimation of Time-Varying Nonlinear Joint Stiffness on an e-Series Universal Robots Manipulator
Key Words: actuators  control system synthesis  elasticity  feedback  feedforward  flexible manipulators  gears  least squares approximations  manipulator dynamics  position control  time-varying systems  model-based feedforward controllers  e-series manipulators  UR5e manipulator  transmission deformation  elastic torques  parametric model  recursive least squares strategy  robot joint stiffness  feedback controllers  robot joints  gear meshing  driven link  drive actuator  dynamic time-varying displacement  lightweight strain-wave type transmissions  elasticity  e-series universal robots manipulator  time-varying nonlinear joint stiffness  model-based on-line estimation  Torque  Robot sensing systems  Friction  Mathematical model  Manipulator dynamics 
Abstract: Flexibility commonly exists in the joints of many industrial robots due to the elasticity of the lightweight strain-wave type transmissions being used. This leads to a dynamic time-varying displacement between the position of the drive actuator and that of the driven link. Furthermore, the joint flexibility changes with time due to the material slowly being worn off at the gear meshing. Knowing the stiffness of the robot joints is of great value, e.g. in the design of new model-based feedforward and feedback controllers, and for predictive maintenance in the case of gearing unit failure. In this paper, we address on-line estimation of robot joint stiffness using a recursive least squares strategy based on a parametric model taking into account the elastic torques' nonlinear dependency on transmission deformation. Robustness is achieved in the presence of measurement noise and in poor excitation conditions. The method can be easily extended to general classes of serial-link multi-degree-of-freedom robots. The estimation technique uses only feedback signals that are readily available on Universal Robots' e-Series manipulators. Experiments on the new UR5e manipulator demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed method.

Title: A Rolling Flexure Mechanism for Progressive Stiffness Actuators
Key Words: actuators  elasticity  finite element analysis  mobile robots  prototypes  springs (mechanical)  torque control  progressive stiffness Actuators  robot performance  2D components  physical interaction performance  passive rolling flexure design principle  linear series elastic actuators  torque-deflection characteristics  finite element analysis  laboratory prototypes  Force  Actuators  Springs  Torque  Stress  Robots  Torque control 
Abstract: Linear Series Elastic Actuators exhibit a restricted design space. This inevitably leads to design trade-offs translating into robot performance limitations. These prevent robots from eventually reaching human comparable soft but also powerful physical interaction performance.This work presents a novel fixed passive rolling flexure design principle enabling the realization of a wide range of progressive torque-deflection characteristics. The proposed principle displays low hysteresis and can be manufactured in single 2D components. The paper derives the analytic foundation for the rolling flexure principle and is supported by numerical finite element analysis. The theory is validated by experimental results obtained on two laboratory prototypes.

Title: Locomotion Dynamics of a Miniature Wave-Like Robot, Modeling and Experiments
Key Words: actuators  force control  friction  legged locomotion  motion control  pipes  robot dynamics  locomotion dynamics  dynamic locomotion analysis  wave robot  propulsion force  locomotion models  advance time ratio  friction forces  miniature model  miniature wave-like robot  minimally actuated wave-like robot kinematics  crawling environments  flexible tube-like shapes  Conferences  Automation 
Abstract: In a recent study, we developed a minimally actuated wave-like robot and analyzed its kinematics. In this paper, we present the dynamic locomotion analysis of a miniature version of this wave robot. We examine different crawling environments, determine under which conditions it can advance, and evaluate its propulsion force. We first developed two locomotion models to characterize the cases where the robot is crawling between two straight surfaces or over a single flat surface. We specified the conditions in which the robot will advance and the advance time ratio as a function of the friction forces and weight of the robot. Next, we developed highly flexible tube-like shapes that we molded from silicone rubber to experimentally test the forces acting on the robot inside these tubes. Finally, we designed a miniature model of the robot and experimentally validated its crawling conditions (see video).

Title: Fabric Soft Poly-Limbs for Physical Assistance of Daily Living Tasks
Key Words: actuators  artificial limbs  fabrics  finite element analysis  manipulators  soft-waist belt  physical assistance  daily living tasks  additional limb  mobile manipulation assistance  soft actuators  high-strength inflatable fabrics  systematic design rules  highly compliant soft robotic limbs  fabric based components behavior  finite-element method models  FEM models  fSPL articulation capabilities  fabric soft arm  fabric soft poly-limbs  Actuators  Fabrics  Payloads  Manipulators  Heating systems  Force  Computational modeling 
Abstract: This paper presents the design and development of a highly articulated, continuum, wearable, fabric-based Soft Poly-Limb (fSPL). This fabric soft arm acts as an additional limb that provides the wearer with mobile manipulation assistance through the use of soft actuators made with high-strength inflatable fabrics. In this work, a set of systematic design rules is presented for the creation of highly compliant soft robotic limbs through an understanding of the fabric based components behavior as a function of input pressure. These design rules are generated by investigating a range of parameters through computational finite-element method (FEM) models focusing on the fSPL's articulation capabilities and payload capacity in 3D space. The theoretical motion and payload outputs of the fSPL and its components are experimentally validated as well as additional evaluations verify its capability to safely carry loads 10.1x its body weight, by wrapping around the object. Finally, we demonstrate how the fully collapsible fSPL can comfortably be stored in a soft-waist belt and interact with the wearer through spatial mobility and preliminary pick-and-place control experiments.

Title: Design of a Soft Ankle-Foot Orthosis Exosuit for Foot Drop Assistance
Key Words: actuators  elastic constants  electromyography  finite element analysis  gait analysis  kinematics  medical control systems  orthotics  soft ankle-foot orthosis exosuit  foot drop assistance  natural gait restoration  soft actuators  thermally-bonded nylon  swing phase  gait cycle  ankle joint proprioception  variable stiffness soft actuator  computational model  fabric actuators  dorsiflexion actuator  soft AFO  ankle dorsiflexion  finite element analysis  electromyography studies  Actuators  Foot  Fabrics  Force  Fabrication  Muscles 
Abstract: This paper presents the design of a soft ankle-foot orthosis (AFO) exosuit to aid natural gait restoration for individuals suffering from foot drop. The sock-like AFO is comprised of soft actuators made from fabric-based, thermally-bonded nylon and designed to be worn over the users shoes. The system assists dorsiflexion during swing phase of the gait cycle utilizing a contracting soft actuator, and provides ankle joint proprioception during stance with a variable stiffness soft actuator. A computational model is developed using finite element analysis to optimize the performance characteristics of the fabric actuators prior to fabrication, maximize contraction, and minimize overall volume. The dorsiflexion actuator is able to achieve a linear tensile force of 197 N at 200 kPa. The variable stiffness actuator generates up to 1. 2 Nm of torque at the same pressure. The computational model and soft AFO are experimentally validated and with a healthy participant through kinematic and electromyography studies. When active the AFO is capable of reducing by 13.3% the activity of the muscle responsible for ankle dorsiflexion during the swing phase.

Title: A Depth Camera-Based Soft Fingertip Device for Contact Region Estimation and Perception-Action Coupling
Key Words: cameras  deformation  estimation theory  robots  tactile sensors  depth camera-based soft fingertip device  contact region estimation  perception-action coupling  robotic applications  unconstrained environments  dynamic environments  soft robotic technologies  soft tactile sensor design  human fingertip  perception mechanism  compliance-modulating capabilities  estimation sensitivity  internal fluid states  force-deformation characteristics  Robot sensing systems  Cameras  Three-dimensional displays  Force  Estimation  Image reconstruction 
Abstract: As the demand for robotic applications in unconstrained and dynamic environments rises, so does the benefit of advancing the state of the art in soft robotic technologies. However, the complex capabilities of soft robots elicited by their high-dimensional, non-linear characteristics simultaneously yield difficult challenges in control and sensing. Moreover, embedding tactile sensing capabilities in soft materials is often expensive and difficult to fabricate. In recent years, however, the invention of small-scale depth-sensing cameras introduced a promising channel for soft tactile sensor design. In this work, we propose a novel soft device inspired by the human fingertip that not only utilizes a small depth camera as the perception mechanism, but also possesses compliance-modulating capabilities. We demonstrate its ability to accurately estimate contact regions upon interaction with an external obstacle, and show that the estimation sensitivity can be modulated via internal fluid states. In addition, we determine an empirical model of the device's force-deformation characteristics under simplifying assumptions, and validate its performance with real-time force matching control experiments.

Title: A Pipe-Climbing Soft Robot
Key Words: bending  design engineering  elastomers  mobile robots  motion control  pipes  pneumatic actuators  modular design  flexible actuators  pipe-climbing soft robot  bio-inspired soft pneumatic robot  cylinder  soft pneumatic actuators  FREEs  deformation behavior  bending actuators  fiber reinforced elastomeric enclosure  forward motion  Actuators  Pneumatic systems  Prototypes  Soft robotics  Strain  Torso  Soft robotics  Crawling Robot  Artificial muscles  McKibben muscles 
Abstract: This paper presents the design and testing of a bio-inspired soft pneumatic robot that can achieve locomotion along the outside of a cylinder. The robot uses soft pneumatic actuators called FREEs (Fiber Reinforced Elastomeric Enclosure), which can have a wide range of deformation behavior upon pressurization. The robot being soft and compliant can grasp and move along cylinders of varying dimensions. Two different types of FREEs are used in the robot namely (a) extending FREEs and (b) bending FREEs. These actuators are arranged in such a way that the bending actuators are used to grip the pipe while the extending actuators generate forward motion as well as bending for direction control. The modular design of the robot provides simplicity and ease of maintenance. The entire robot is made of flexible actuators and can withstand external impact with minimal to no damage. The maximum speed achieved for horizontal motion is 4.2 mm/s and for vertical motion is 2.1 mm/s.

Title: Generation of Stealth Walking Gait on Low-friction Road Surface
Key Words: friction  gait analysis  legged locomotion  motion control  robot dynamics  wheels  AMCC  horizontal ground reaction force  low-friction road surface  planar underactuated rimless wheel  stealth walking gait  adaptive walking gaits  underactuated walkers  control torques  frictionless road surface  angular momentum constraint control  stance-leg motion  linearized motion equation  Legged locomotion  Foot  Mathematical model  Wheels  Roads  Trajectory  Force 
Abstract: The author has investigated the method of stealth walking for generating adaptive walking gaits of underactuated walkers without having the control torques at the feet. This approach is also effective for achieving careful walking on the frictionless road surface by applying angular momentum constraint control (AMCC); the generated gait completes in one step while maintaining the horizontal ground reaction force to zero. The result is mathematically thorough, but is not realistic because any uncertainties in the system cannot be permitted. This paper then discusses more realistic slidingresistant situation: stealth walking on the low-friction road surface. First, we introduce a model of a planar underactuated rimless wheel, and describe the equation of motion and the control input for AMCC. Second, we specify the linearized equation of motion with AMCC, and derive the analytical solution of the stance-leg motion which is used as a desired trajectory for the nonlinear model. Furthermore, we discuss the optimality of the upper-body control during the double-limb support phase from the sliding-resistant characteristics point of view through mathematical and numerical investigations.

Title: Support Surface Estimation for Legged Robots
Key Words: Gaussian processes  legged locomotion  path planning  regression analysis  robot dynamics  terrain mapping  legged robots  legged systems  rugged outdoor environments  terrain geometry  foothold planning  safe locomotion  penetrable terrain  depth sensors  haptic information  foot contact closure locations  exteroceptive sensing  dense support surface estimate  Gaussian process regression  support surface estimation procedure  penetrable surface layer  discrete penetration depth measurements  continuous support surface estimate  partial exteroceptive information  terrain topography  quadrupedal robot ANYmal  Vegetation mapping  Surface topography  Kernel  Estimation  Robot sensing systems 
Abstract: The high agility of legged systems allows them to operate in rugged outdoor environments. In these situations, knowledge about the terrain geometry is key for foothold planning to enable safe locomotion. However, on penetrable or highly compliant terrain (e.g. grass) the visibility of the supporting ground surface is obstructed, i.e. it cannot directly be perceived by depth sensors. We present a method to estimate the underlying terrain topography by fusing haptic information about foot contact closure locations with exteroceptive sensing. To obtain a dense support surface estimate from sparsely sampled footholds we apply Gaussian process regression. Exteroceptive information is integrated into the support surface estimation procedure by estimating the height of the penetrable surface layer from discrete penetration depth measurements at the footholds. The method is designed such that it provides a continuous support surface estimate even if there is only partial exteroceptive information available due to shadowing effects. Field experiments with the quadrupedal robot ANYmal show how the robot can smoothly and safely navigate in dense vegetation.

Title: ALMA - Articulated Locomotion and Manipulation for a Torque-Controllable Robot
Key Words: end effectors  human-robot interaction  legged locomotion  manipulator dynamics  motion control  optimisation  path planning  torque control  unstructured environments  ALMA  torque-controlled quadrupedal robot  dynamic locomotion  online motion planning framework  whole-body controller  hierarchical optimization algorithm  operational space end-effector control  human-robot collaboration  torso posture optimization  torque-controllable robot  robotic mobile manipulation  six degrees of freedom robotic arm  articulated locomotion and manipulation  reactive human-robot collaboration  Legged locomotion  Task analysis  Grippers  Robot kinematics  Tracking  Dynamics 
Abstract: The task of robotic mobile manipulation poses several scientific challenges that need to be addressed to execute complex manipulation tasks in unstructured environments, in which collaboration with humans might be required. Therefore, we present ALMA, a motion planning and control framework for a torque-controlled quadrupedal robot equipped with a six degrees of freedom robotic arm capable of performing dynamic locomotion while executing manipulation tasks. The online motion planning framework, together with a whole-body controller based on a hierarchical optimization algorithm, enables the system to walk, trot and pace while executing operational space end-effector control, reactive human-robot collaboration and torso posture optimization to increase the arm's workspace. The torque control of the whole system enables the implementation of compliant behavior, allowing a user to safely interact with the robot. We verify our framework on the real robot by performing tasks such as opening a door and carrying a payload together with a human.

Title: Real-time Model Predictive Control for Versatile Dynamic Motions in Quadrupedal Robots
Key Words: legged locomotion  motion control  predictive control  quadratic programming  robot dynamics  versatile dynamic motions  quadrupedal robot  single rigid body dynamics  rotation matrices  quaternions  unwinding phenomenon  MPC control law  periodic quadrupedal gaits  model predictive control framework  quadratic program  QP  Euler angles  acrobatic maneuvers  Legged locomotion  Dynamics  Robot kinematics  Three-dimensional displays  Trajectory  Real-time systems 
Abstract: This paper presents a new Model Predictive Control (MPC) framework for controlling various dynamic movements of a quadrupedal robot. System dynamics are represented by linearizing single rigid body dynamics in three-dimensional (3D) space. Our formulation linearizes rotation matrices without resorting to parameterizations like Euler angles and quaternions, avoiding issues of singularity and unwinding phenomenon, respectively. With a carefully chosen configuration error function, the MPC control law is transcribed into a Quadratic Program (QP) which can be solved efficiently in realtime. Our formulation can stabilize a wide range of periodic quadrupedal gaits and acrobatic maneuvers. We show various simulation as well as experimental results to validate our control strategy. Experiments prove the application of this framework with a custom QP solver could reach execution rates of 160 Hz on embedded platforms.

Title: Scanning the Internet for ROS: A View of Security in Robotics Research
Key Words: control engineering computing  image sensors  Internet  IP networks  operating systems (computers)  robot programming  robot vision  ROS  public Internet  image sensor information  publicly-accessible platforms  robotics research  Robot Operating System  robotic sensors  robotic actuators  IPv4 address space  American university  Robot sensing systems  Security  Actuators  Internet  Service robots 
Abstract: Security is particularly important in robotics, as robots can directly perceive and affect the physical world. We describe the results of a scan of the entire IPv4 address space of the Internet for instances of the Robot Operating System (ROS), a widely used robotics software platform. We identified a number of hosts supporting ROS that are exposed to the public Internet, thereby allowing anyone to access robotic sensors and actuators. As a proof of concept, and with the consent of the relevant researchers, we were able to read image sensor information from and actuate a physical robot present in a research lab in an American university. This paper gives an overview of our findings, including our methodology, the geographic distribution of publicly-accessible platforms, the sorts of sensor and actuator data that is available, and the different kinds of robots and sensors that our scan uncovered. Additionally, we offer recommendations on best practices to mitigate these security issues in the future.

Title: Risk Averse Robust Adversarial Reinforcement Learning
Key Words: learning (artificial intelligence)  optimisation  probability  risk averse robust adversarial reinforcement learning  deep reinforcement learning  computer games  robotic control  automotive accidents  optimization  probability  RARARL  self-driving vehicle controller  Reinforcement learning  Training  Mathematical model  Robustness  Autonomous vehicles  Task analysis  Accidents 
Abstract: Deep reinforcement learning has recently made significant progress in solving computer games and robotic control tasks. A known problem, though, is that policies overfit to the training environment and may not avoid rare, catastrophic events such as automotive accidents. A classical technique for improving the robustness of reinforcement learning algorithms is to train on a set of randomized environments, but this approach only guards against common situations. Recently, robust adversarial reinforcement learning (RARL) was developed, which allows efficient applications of random and systematic perturbations by a trained adversary. A limitation of RARL is that only the expected control objective is optimized; there is no explicit modeling or optimization of risk. Thus the agents do not consider the probability of catastrophic events (i.e., those inducing abnormally large negative reward), except through their effect on the expected objective. In this paper we introduce risk-averse robust adversarial reinforcement learning (RARARL), using a risk-averse protagonist and a risk-seeking adversary. We test our approach on a self-driving vehicle controller. We use an ensemble of policy networks to model risk as the variance of value functions. We show through experiments that a risk-averse agent is better equipped to handle a risk-seeking adversary, and experiences substantially fewer crashes compared to agents trained without an adversary. Supplementary materials are available at https://sites.google.com/view/rararl.

Title: Bounded Collision Force by the Sobolev Norm
Key Words: compliance control  control system synthesis  end effectors  feedback  force control  H2 control  manipulator dynamics  mechanical contact  springs (mechanical)  Sobolev norm  robot inertia  analytical models  maximum collision force  simplified mass-spring robot model  end-effector compliance  system norm  maximum force  general dynamic system  feedback control  control theory  controller synthesis  admittance-controlled robot  linear flexible-joint robot  bounded collision force  robot contact  safety risks  collision force minimisation  Force  Collision avoidance  Robot sensing systems  Measurement  End effectors  Admittance 
Abstract: A robot making contact with an environment or human presents potential safety risks, including excessive collision force. While experiments on the effect of robot inertia, relative velocity, and interface stiffness on collision are in literature, analytical models for maximum collision force are limited to a simplified mass-spring robot model. This simplified model limits the analysis of control (force/torque, impedance, or admittance) or compliant robots (joint and end-effector compliance). Here, the Sobolev norm is adapted to be a system norm, giving rigorous bounds on the maximum force on a stiffness element in a general dynamic system, allowing the study of collision with more accurate models and feedback control. The Sobolev norm can be found through the H2 norm of a transformed system, allowing efficient computation, connection with existing control theory, and controller synthesis to minimize collision force. The Sobolev norm is validated, first experimentally with an admittance-controlled robot, then in simulation with a linear flexible-joint robot. It is then used to investigate the impact of control, joint flexibility and end-effector compliance on collision, and a trade-off between collision performance and environmental estimation uncertainty is shown.

Title: Liability, Ethics, and Culture-Aware Behavior Specification using Rulebooks
Key Words: automobiles  cultural aspects  ethical aspects  formal specification  intelligent transportation systems  mobile robots  multi-agent systems  culture-aware behavior specification  autonomous agents  self-driving domain  liability-aware behavior specification  ethics-aware behavior specification  self-driving car behavior  Aptiv company  nuTonomy  violation metric  rulebook semantics  Automobiles  Planning  Autonomous automobiles  Ethics  Measurement  Trajectory  Semantics 
Abstract: The behavior of self-driving cars must be compatible with an enormous set of conflicting and ambiguous objectives, from law, from ethics, from the local culture, and so on. This paper describes a new way to conveniently define the desired behavior for autonomous agents, which we use on the self-driving cars developed at nuTonomy, an Aptiv company. We define a “rulebook” as a pre-ordered set of “rules”, each akin to a violation metric on the possible outcomes (“realizations”). The rules are partially ordered by priority. The semantics of a rulebook imposes a pre-order on the set of realizations. We study the compositional properties of the rulebooks, and we derive which operations we can allow on the rulebooks to preserve previously-introduced constraints. While we demonstrate the application of these techniques in the self-driving domain, the methods are domain-independent.

Title: Early Failure Detection of Deep End-to-End Control Policy by Reinforcement Learning
Key Words: belief networks  control engineering computing  convolutional neural nets  learning (artificial intelligence)  learning systems  observability  predictive control  learned control policies  reinforcement learning  end-to-end imitation  predictive uncertainty  model predictive controller  fully-observable vision-based partially-observable systems  deep convolutional Bayesian neural networks  deep end-to-end control policy  Bayesian networks  mean value  corrective action  partial state observability  Uncertainty  Bayes methods  Task analysis  Neural networks  Safety  Training  Autonomous vehicles 
Abstract: We propose the use of Bayesian networks, which provide both a mean value and an uncertainty estimate as output, to enhance the safety of learned control policies under circumstances in which a test-time input differs significantly from the training set. Our algorithm combines reinforcement learning and end-to-end imitation learning to simultaneously learn a control policy as well as a threshold over the predictive uncertainty of the learned model, with no hand-tuning required. Corrective action, such as a return of control to the model predictive controller or human expert, is taken before the failure of tasks, when the uncertainty threshold is exceeded. We validate our method on fully-observable and vision-based partially-observable systems using cart-pole and autonomous driving simulations using deep convolutional Bayesian neural networks. We demonstrate that our method is robust to uncertainty resulting from varying system dynamics as well as from partial state observability.

Title: Bridging Hamilton-Jacobi Safety Analysis and Reinforcement Learning
Key Words: approximation theory  control engineering computing  dynamic programming  gradient methods  learning (artificial intelligence)  mobile robots  optimal control  partial differential equations  dynamic programming equation  contraction mapping  Hamilton-Jacobi safety analysis  control-theoretic safety analysis  optimal safety policy  quantitative safety analysis  reinforcement learning techniques  time-discounted modification  optimal control problems  robust optimal control theory  autonomous robotic systems  policy gradient techniques  value learning  Safety  Automation  Reinforcement learning  Robots  Optimal control  Jacobian matrices  Reachability analysis 
Abstract: Safety analysis is a necessary component in the design and deployment of autonomous robotic systems. Techniques from robust optimal control theory, such as Hamilton-Jacobi reachability analysis, allow a rigorous formalization of safety as guaranteed constraint satisfaction. Unfortunately, the computational complexity of these tools for general dynamical systems scales poorly with state dimension, making existing tools impractical beyond small problems. Modern reinforcement learning methods have shown promising ability to find approximate yet proficient solutions to optimal control problems in complex and high-dimensional systems, however their application has in practice been restricted to problems with an additive payoff over time, unsuitable for reasoning about safety. In recent work, we introduced a time-discounted modification of the problem of maximizing the minimum payoff over time, central to safety analysis, through a modified dynamic programming equation that induces a contraction mapping. Here, we show how a similar contraction mapping can render reinforcement learning techniques amenable to quantitative safety analysis as tools to approximate the safe set and optimal safety policy. This opens a new avenue of research connecting control-theoretic safety analysis and the reinforcement learning domain. We validate the correctness of our formulation by comparing safety results computed through Q-learning to analytic and numerical solutions, and demonstrate its scalability by learning safe sets and control policies for simulated systems of up to 18 state dimensions using value learning and policy gradient techniques.

Title: Trajectory Planning for a Tractor with Multiple Trailers in Extremely Narrow Environments: A Unified Approach*
Key Words: agricultural machinery  optimal control  path planning  sampling methods  search problems  vehicle dynamics  trajectory planning  multiple trailers  extremely narrow environments  unified approach  vehicle kinematics  underactuated constraints  nonholonomic constraints  prevalent sampling-based  rigid-body vehicles  tractor-trailer vehicle cases  generic n-trailer cases  tiny environments  adaptively homotopic warm-starting approach  numerical solution process  extremely tiny scenarios  online planning opportunities  Trajectory  Planning  Agricultural machinery  Kinematics  Optimal control  Wheels  Dispersion 
Abstract: Trajectory planning for a tractor-trailer vehicle is challenging because the vehicle kinematics consists of underactuated and nonholonomic constraints that are highly coupled. Prevalent sampling-based or search-based planners suitable for rigid-body vehicles are not capable of handling the tractor-trailer vehicle cases. This work aims to deal with generic n-trailer cases in the tiny environments. To this end, an optimal control problem is formulated, which is beneficial in being accurate, straightforward, and unified. An adaptively homotopic warm-starting approach is proposed to facilitate the numerical solution process of the formulated optimal control problem. Compared with the existing sequential warm starting strategies, our proposal can adaptively define the subproblems with the purpose of making the gaps between adjacent subproblems “pleasant” for the solver. Unification and efficiency of the proposed adaptively homotopic warm-starting approach have been investigated in several extremely tiny scenarios. Our planner finds solutions that other existing planners cannot. Online planning opportunities are briefly discussed as well.

Title: A Friction-Based Kinematic Model for Skid-Steer Wheeled Mobile Robots
Key Words: friction  mobile robots  robot dynamics  robot kinematics  wheels  friction-based kinematic model  skid-steer drive systems  mobile robot platforms  normal operation  slippages  forward kinematics  slip prediction  skid-steer wheeled mobile robots  translational prediction error  rotational prediction error  skid-steer robot  system identification  model learning research  Mobile robots  Kinematics  Wheels  Force  Predictive models  Acceleration 
Abstract: Skid-steer drive systems are widely used in mobile robot platforms. Such systems are subject to significant slippage and skidding during normal operation due to their nature. The ability to predict and compensate for such slippages in the forward kinematics of these types of robots is of great importance and provides the means for accurate control and safe navigation. In this work, we propose a new kinematic model capable of slip prediction for skid-steer wheeled mobile robots (SSWMRs). The proposed model outperforms the state-of-the-art in terms of both translational and rotational prediction error on a dataset composed of more than 6 km worth of trajectories traversed by a skid-steer robot. We also publicly release our dataset to serve as a benchmark for system identification and model learning research for SSWMRs.

Title: Turning a Corner with a Dubins Car
Key Words: collision avoidance  mobile robots  optimisation  closed-form optimal path  efficient path planner  shortest collision-free Dubins paths  sufficient condition  closed-form solution  interior corner  elementary Dubins paths  RSRSR  RSRSL  LSRSR  LSRSL  Turning  Automobiles  Heuristic algorithms  Planning  Path planning  Approximation algorithms  Terminology 
Abstract: We study the problem of computing shortest collision-free Dubins paths when turning a corner. We present a sufficient condition for a closed-form solution. Specifically, consider S as the set consisting of paths of the form RSRSR, RSRSL, LSRSR and LSRSL that pass through the interior corner, where sub-paths RSR, RSL, and LSR are elementary Dubins paths composed of segments which are either straight (S) or turning left (L) or right (R). We find the closed-form optimal path around a corner when S is nonempty. Our solution can be used in an efficient path planner, for example, when navigating corridors. It can also be used as a subroutine for planners such as RRTs.

Title: Modeling and state estimation of a Micro Ball-balancing Robot using a high yaw-rate dynamic model and an Extended Kalman Filter
Key Words: Kalman filters  mobile robots  nonlinear control systems  nonlinear filters  robot dynamics  state estimation  microball-balancing robot  extended Kalman filter  linearized dynamic model  state estimator  yaw-rate ball-balancing robot dynamic model  raw on-board sensor measurements  EKF  Robot kinematics  Wheels  Mathematical model  Robot sensing systems  Torque  Kalman filters 
Abstract: The state estimation and control of a ball-balancing robot under high yaw rate is a challenging problem due to its highly nonlinear 3D dynamic. The small size and low-cost components in our Micro Ball-Balancing Robot makes the system inherently very noisy which further increases the complexity of the problem. In order to drive the robot more aggressively such as translating and spinning at the same time, a good state estimator which works well under high yaw rates is required. This paper presents the derivation of a high yaw-rate Ball-Balancing Robot dynamic model and the implementation of said model in an Extended Kalman Filter (EKF) using raw on-board sensor measurements. The EKF using the new model is then compared to a Kalman Filter which uses a linearized dynamic model. The accuracy of the attitude estimates and the controller performance under high yaw rates were verified using a motion capture system.

Title: Orientation-Aware Motion Planning in Complex Workspaces using Adaptive Harmonic Potential Fields
Key Words: collision avoidance  mobile robots  motion control  orientation-aware motion planning  complex workspaces  adaptive harmonic potential fields  hybrid control scheme  navigation problem  planar robotic platform  approximate configuration space decomposition techniques  appropriate workspace transformations  adaptive potential field based control laws  configuration space representation  obstacle cluttered workspace  Aerospace electronics  Robot kinematics  Harmonic analysis  Navigation  Shape  Approximation algorithms 
Abstract: In this work, a hybrid control scheme is presented in order to address the navigation problem for a planar robotic platform of arbitrary shape that is moving inside an obstacle cluttered workspace. Given an initial and desired robot configuration, we propose a methodology based on approximate configuration space decomposition techniques that makes use of heuristics to adaptively refine a partition of the configuration space into non-overlapping, adjacent slices. Furthermore, we employ appropriate workspace transformations and adaptive potential field based control laws that integrate elegantly with the type of configuration space representation used, in order to safely navigate within a given cell and successfully cross over to the next, for almost all initial configurations, until the desired configuration is reached. Finally, we present simulation results that demonstrate the efficacy of the proposed control scheme.

Title: Energy-Aware Temporal Logic Motion Planning for Mobile Robots
Key Words: computability  mobile robots  path planning  power aware computing  temporal logic  trajectory control  motion planning problem  SMT solving problem  optimal trajectory  energy-aware trajectories  LTL specification  mobile robot  motion plan  battery charge  LTL formula  linear temporal logic  charging station locations  energy-aware temporal logic motion planning  satisfiability modulo theory  Trajectory  Charging stations  Batteries  Planning  Task analysis  Mobile robots 
Abstract: This paper presents a methodology for synthesizing a motion plan for a mobile robot to ensure that the robot never gets depleted with battery charge while carrying out its mission successfully. The specification of the robot is provided in the form of an LTL (Linear Temporal Logic) formula. A trajectory satisfying an LTL formula may contain a loop whose repetitive execution causes the depletion of battery charge in the robot. The motion plan generated by our methodology ensures that the robot visits the charging station periodically in such a way that it never gets depleted with battery charge while carrying out its mission optimally. Given a set of potential charging station locations and an LTL specification, our algorithm also finds the best location for the charging station along with the optimal trajectory for the robot. We encode the motion planning problem as an SMT (Satisfiability Modulo Theory) solving problem and use the off-the-shelf SMT solver Z3 to solve the constraints to find the location of the charging station and generate an optimal trajectory for the robot. We apply our methodology to synthesize energy-aware trajectories for robots with different dynamics in various workspaces and for various LTL specifications.

Title: Using Local Experiences for Global Motion Planning
Key Words: collision avoidance  mobile robots  sampling methods  global motion planning  sampling-based planners  collision-free path  sampling strategy  Databases  Planning  Task analysis  Kinematics  Trajectory  Manipulators 
Abstract: Sampling-based planners are effective in many real-world applications such as robotics manipulation, navigation, and even protein modeling. However, it is often challenging to generate a collision-free path in environments where key areas are hard to sample. In the absence of any prior information, sampling-based planners are forced to explore uniformly or heuristically, which can lead to degraded performance. One way to improve performance is to use prior knowledge of environments to adapt the sampling strategy to the problem at hand. In this work, we decompose the workspace into local primitives, memorizing local experiences by these primitives in the form of local samplers, and store them in a database. We synthesize an efficient global sampler by retrieving local experiences relevant to the given situation. Our method transfers knowledge effectively between diverse environments that share local primitives and speeds up the performance dramatically. Our results show, in terms of solution time, an improvement of multiple orders of magnitude in two traditionally challenging high-dimensional problems compared to state-of-the-art approaches.

Title: DMP Based Trajectory Tracking for a Nonholonomic Mobile Robot With Automatic Goal Adaptation and Obstacle Avoidance
Key Words: collision avoidance  fuzzy logic  gradient methods  learning (artificial intelligence)  Lyapunov methods  manipulator dynamics  mobile robots  motion control  position control  radial basis function networks  stability  steering systems  trajectory control  Dynamic Movement Primitive  motion planning  robot manipulator  nonholonomic mobile robot  Radial Basis Function Networks  robot goal position  Lyapunov stability theory-based analysis  dynamic obstacles  automatic goal adaptation  RBFN  DMP  gradient descent  static obstacles  trajectory tracking  damped spring model  steering angle dynamics  fuzzy logic  Mobile robots  Trajectory  Mathematical model  Robot kinematics  Collision avoidance  Dynamics 
Abstract: Dynamic Movement Primitive (DMP) which is popular for motion planning of a robot manipulator, has been adapted for a nonholonomic mobile robot to track the desired trajectory. DMP is a simple damped spring model with a forcing function, which learns the trajectory. The damped spring model attracts the robot towards the goal position, and the forcing function forces the robot to follow the given trajectory. Two Radial Basis Function Networks (RBFNs) have been used to learn the forcing function associated with the DMP model. Weight update laws are derived using the gradient descent approach to train the RBFNs. Fuzzy logic based steering angle dynamics is proposed to handle the asymmetric nature of an obstacle. The proposed scheme is capable enough to generate a smooth trajectory in the presence of an obstacle even when start and goal positions are altered, without losing the spatial information embedded while training. The convergence of the robot goal position has been shown using Lyapunov stability theory-based analysis. The approach has been extended to multiple static and dynamic obstacles for the successful convergence of the robot at the goal position. Both simulation and experimental results are provided to confirm the efficacy of the proposed scheme.

Title: Predictive Collision Avoidance for the Dynamic Window Approach
Key Words: collision avoidance  mobile robots  motion control  predictive collision avoidance  dynamic window approach  foresighted navigation  mobile robots  factory floor installations  dynamic collision model  nonholonomic vehicles  Trajectory  Vehicle dynamics  Dynamics  Acceleration  Collision avoidance  Robot sensing systems 
Abstract: Foresighted navigation is an essential skill for robots to rise from rigid factory floor installations to much more versatile mobile robots that partake in our everyday environment. The current state of the art that provides this mobility to some extent is the Dynamic Window Approach combined with a global start-to-target path planner. However, neither the Dynamic Window Approach nor the path planner are equipped to predict the motion of other objects in the environment. We propose a change in the Dynamic Window Approach-a dynamic collision model-that is capable of predicting future collisions with the environment by also taking into account the motion of other objects. We show in simulated experiments that our new way of computing the Dynamic Window Approach significantly reduces the number of collisions in a dynamic setting with nonholonomic vehicles while still being computationally efficient.

Title: Kinematic Constraints Based Bi-directional RRT (KB-RRT) with Parameterized Trajectories for Robot Path Planning in Cluttered Environment
Key Words: collision avoidance  mobile robots  path planning  robot dynamics  robot kinematics  Bi-RRT algorithm  parameterized trajectories  robot path planning  complex missions  navigation capability  autonomous mobile robots  robust path planning algorithms  bidirectional-RRT  kinodynamic constraints  bidirectional RRT  trajectory planning  memory utilization  kinematic constraints  KB-RRT algorithm  Kinematics  Trajectory  Mobile robots  Navigation  Planning 
Abstract: Optimal path planning and smooth trajectory planning are critical for effective navigation of mobile robots working towards accomplishing complex missions. For autonomous, real time and extended operations of mobile robots, the navigation capability needs to be executed at the edge. Thus, efficient compute, minimum memory utilization and smooth trajectory are the key parameters that drive the successful operation of autonomous mobile robots. Traditionally, navigation solutions focus on developing robust path planning algorithms which are complex and compute/memory intensive. Bidirectional-RRT(Bi-RRT) based path planning algorithms have gained increased attention due to their effectiveness and computational efficiency in generating feasible paths. However, these algorithms neither optimize memory nor guarantee smooth trajectories. To this end, we propose a kinematically constrained Bi-RRT (KB-RRT) algorithm, which restricts the number of nodes generated without compromising on the accuracy and incorporates kinodynamic constraints for generating smooth trajectories, together resulting in efficient navigation of autonomous mobile robots. The proposed algorithm is tested in a highly cluttered environment on an Ackermannsteering vehicle model with severe kinematic constraints. The experimental results demonstrate that KB-RRT achieves three times (3 X) better performance in terms of convergence rate and memory utilization compared to a standard Bi-RRT algorithm.

Title: Predicting Vehicle Behaviors Over An Extended Horizon Using Behavior Interaction Network
Key Words: recurrent neural nets  road vehicles  traffic engineering computing  recurrent neural network  interaction modeling  vehicle behaviors  autonomous vehicles  behavior detection  long-term future rewards  vehicle behavior interaction network  observation encoding  Planning  Trajectory  Vehicle dynamics  Encoding  Autonomous vehicles  Recurrent neural networks  Prediction methods 
Abstract: Anticipating possible behaviors of traffic participants is an essential capability of autonomous vehicles. Many behavior detection and maneuver recognition methods only have a very limited prediction horizon that leaves inadequate time and space for planning. To avoid unsatisfactory reactive decisions, it is essential to count long-term future rewards in planning, which requires extending the prediction horizon. In this paper, we uncover that clues to vehicle behaviors over an extended horizon can be found in vehicle interaction, which makes it possible to anticipate the likelihood of a certain behavior, even in the absence of any clear maneuver pattern. We adopt a recurrent neural network (RNN) for observation encoding, and based on that, we propose a novel vehicle behavior interaction network (VBIN) to capture the vehicle interaction from the hidden states and connection feature of each interaction pair. The output of our method is a probabilistic likelihood of multiple behavior classes, which matches the multimodal and uncertain nature of the distant future. A systematic comparison of our method against two state-of-the-art methods and another two baseline methods on a publicly available real highway dataset is provided, showing that our method has superior accuracy and advanced capability for interaction modeling.

Title: Multimodal Spatio-Temporal Information in End-to-End Networks for Automotive Steering Prediction
Key Words: cameras  driver information systems  image sequences  road safety  steering systems  visual input data  onboard vehicle camera  empirical comparison  spatial spatio-temporal  real-life driver  predicted steering command  recurrent multimodal model  steering correction concept  multimodal spatio-temporal information  end-to-end networks  automotive steering prediction  end-to-end steering problem  Optical imaging  Adaptive optics  Computational modeling  Kernel  Training  Roads  Cameras  Autonomous steering  deep learning  spatio-temporal model  multimodal input  optical flow  RNN-LSTM 
Abstract: We study the end-to-end steering problem using visual input data from an onboard vehicle camera. An empirical comparison between spatial, spatio-temporal and multimodal models is performed assessing each concept's performance from two points of evaluation. First, how close the model is in predicting and imitating a real-life driver's behavior, second, the smoothness of the predicted steering command. The latter is a newly proposed metric. Building on our results, we propose a new recurrent multimodal model. The suggested model has been tested on a custom dataset recorded by BMW, as well as the public dataset provided by Udacity. Results show that it outperforms previously released scores. Further, a steering correction concept from off-lane driving through the inclusion of correction frames is presented. We show that our suggestion leads to promising results empirically.

Title: OVPC Mesh: 3D Free-space Representation for Local Ground Vehicle Navigation
Key Words: computational geometry  mesh generation  mobile robots  navigation  path planning  remotely operated vehicles  robot vision  stereo image processing  OVPC Mesh  3D free-space representation  local ground vehicle navigation  autonomous unmanned ground vehicle  Visible Point Clouds Mesh  local point cloud data  UGV navigation  on visible point clouds mesh  watertight 3D mesh generation  trajectory planning  robot  Three-dimensional displays  Navigation  Robot sensing systems  Planning  Laser radar  Real-time systems 
Abstract: This paper presents a novel approach for local 3D environment representation for autonomous unmanned ground vehicle (UGV) navigation called On Visible Point Clouds Mesh (OVPC Mesh). Our approach represents the surrounding of the robot as a watertight 3D mesh generated from local point cloud data in order to represent the free space surrounding the robot. It is a conservative estimation of the free space and provides a desirable trade-off between representation precision and computational efficiency, without having to discretize the environment into a fixed grid size. Our experiments analyze the usability of the approach for UGV navigation in rough terrain, both in simulation and in a fully integrated real-world system. Additionally, we compare our approach to well-known state-of the-art solutions, such as Octomap and Elevation Mapping and show that OVPC Mesh can provide reliable 3D information for trajectory planning while fulfilling real-time constraints.

Title: Attention-based Lane Change Prediction
Key Words: path planning  recurrent neural nets  road vehicles  traffic engineering computing  function estimation problem  model understandability  lane change prediction model  attention-based recurrent model  prediction quality  attention-based lane change prediction  path planning  driver discomfort  Automobiles  Predictive models  Hidden Markov models  Task analysis  Vehicle dynamics  Bayes methods 
Abstract: Lane change prediction of surrounding vehicles is a key building block of path planning. The focus has been on increasing the accuracy of prediction by posing it purely as a function estimation problem at the cost of model understandability. However, the efficacy of any lane change prediction model can be improved when both corner and failure cases are humanly understandable. We propose an attention-based recurrent model to tackle both understandability and prediction quality. We also propose metrics which reflect the discomfort felt by the driver. We show encouraging results on a publicly available dataset and proprietary fleet data.

Title: Safe Reinforcement Learning With Model Uncertainty Estimates
Key Words: Bayes methods  collision avoidance  control engineering computing  learning (artificial intelligence)  neural nets  safety  model uncertainty estimates  current autonomous systems  strong reliance  black box predictions  deep neural networks  DNNs  unpredictable results  far-from-distribution test data  distributional shift  safety-critical applications  pedestrians  state-of-the-art extraction methods  Bayesian neural networks  MC-Dropout  computationally tractable uncertainty estimates  parallelizable uncertainty estimates  uncertainty-aware navigation  collision avoidance policy  unseen behavior  uncertainty-unaware baseline  safe reinforcement learning framework  Uncertainty  Collision avoidance  Neural networks  Computational modeling  Training  Data models  Reinforcement learning 
Abstract: Many current autonomous systems are being designed with a strong reliance on black box predictions from deep neural networks (DNNs). However, DNNs tend to be overconfident in predictions on unseen data and can give unpredictable results for far-from-distribution test data. The importance of predictions that are robust to this distributional shift is evident for safety-critical applications, such as collision avoidance around pedestrians. Measures of model uncertainty can be used to identify unseen data, but the state-of-the-art extraction methods such as Bayesian neural networks are mostly intractable to compute. This paper uses MC-Dropout and Bootstrapping to give computationally tractable and parallelizable uncertainty estimates. The methods are embedded in a Safe Reinforcement Learning framework to form uncertainty-aware navigation around pedestrians. The result is a collision avoidance policy that knows what it does not know and cautiously avoids pedestrians that exhibit unseen behavior. The policy is demonstrated in simulation to be more robust to novel observations and take safer actions than an uncertainty-unaware baseline.

Title: Using DP Towards A Shortest Path Problem-Related Application
Key Words: directed graphs  dynamic programming  graph theory  image segmentation  object detection  search problems  traffic engineering computing  line segments  directed graph model  dynamic programming  shortest path problem-related application  curved lanes  autonomous driving systems  visual recognition tasks  lane detection  two-dimensional graph searching problem  optimal path finding  Search problems  Roads  Visualization  Shortest path problem  Mathematical model  Task analysis  Computational modeling 
Abstract: The detection of curved lanes is still challenging for autonomous driving systems. Although current cutting-edge approaches have performed well in real applications, most of them are based on strict model assumptions. Similar to other visual recognition tasks, lane detection can be formulated as a two-dimensional graph searching problem, which can be solved by finding several optimal paths along with line segments and boundaries. In this paper, we present a directed graph model, in which dynamic programming is used to deal with a specific shortest path problem. This model is particularly suitable to represent objects with long continuous shape structure, e.g., lanes and roads. We apply the designed model and proposed an algorithm for detecting lanes by formulating it as the shortest path problem. To evaluate the performance of our proposed algorithm, we tested five sequences (including 1573 frames) from the KITTI database. The results showed that our method achieves an average successful detection precision of 97.5%.

Title: Improving dual-arm assembly by master-slave compliance
Key Words: force control  human-robot interaction  industrial manipulators  learning (artificial intelligence)  manipulator dynamics  motion control  multi-robot systems  robotic assembly  telerobotics  learning method  master-slave compliance  dual-arm assembly task  compliance parameters  human demonstration  compliant motions  assembly tasks  convergence region  alignment task  compliant axes  orientation error  single teleoperated manipulator  manipulators compliant  total joint motions  Task analysis  Manipulators  Tools  Jamming  Wrist  Trajectory 
Abstract: In this paper we show how different choices regarding compliance affect a dual-arm assembly task. In addition, we present how the compliance parameters can be learned from a human demonstration. Compliant motions can be used in assembly tasks to mitigate pose errors originating from, for example, inaccurate grasping. We present analytical background and accompanying experimental results on how to choose the center of compliance to enhance the convergence region of an alignment task. Then we present the possible ways of choosing the compliant axes for accomplishing alignment in a scenario where orientation error is present. We show that an earlier presented Learning from Demonstration method can be used to learn motion and compliance parameters of an impedance controller for both manipulators. The learning requires a human demonstration with a single teleoperated manipulator only, easing the execution of demonstration and enabling usage of manipulators at difficult locations as well. Finally, we experimentally verify our claim that having both manipulators compliant in both rotation and translation can accomplish the alignment task with less total joint motions and in shorter time than moving one manipulator only. In addition, we show that the learning method produces the parameters that achieve the best results in our experiments.

Title: Generation of Synchronized Configuration Space Trajectories of Multi-Robot Systems
Key Words: multi-robot systems  optimisation  synchronized configuration space trajectories  multirobot systems  path-constrained trajectory generation  synchronous motion  nonlinear optimization problem  configuration variables  successive refinement techniques  parametric representation  Trajectory  Manipulators  Splines (mathematics)  Optimization  Robot kinematics  Tools 
Abstract: We pose the problem of path-constrained trajectory generation for the synchronous motion of multi-robot systems as a non-linear optimization problem. Our method determines appropriate parametric representation for the configuration variables, generates an approximate solution as a starting point for the optimization method, and uses successive refinement techniques to solve the problem in a computationally efficient manner. We have demonstrated the effectiveness of the proposed method on challenging simulation and physical experiments with high degrees of freedom robotic systems.

Title: REPLAB: A Reproducible Low-Cost Arm Benchmark for Robotic Learning
Key Words: control engineering computing  learning (artificial intelligence)  manipulators  robot programming  robot vision  reproducible low-cost arm benchmark  robotic learning  vision-based manipulation benchmark  robot arm  robotics  grasping benchmark  evaluation protocol  standardized evaluation  machine learning  REPLAB  Robots  Benchmark testing  Task analysis  Grasping  Hardware  Cameras  Calibration 
Abstract: Standardized evaluation measures have aided in the progress of machine learning approaches in disciplines such as computer vision and machine translation. In this paper, we make the case that robotic learning would also benefit from benchmarking, and present a template for a vision-based manipulation benchmark. Our benchmark is built on “REPLAB,” a reproducible and self-contained hardware stack (robot arm, camera, and workspace) that costs about 2000 USD and occupies a cuboid of size 70x40x60 cm. Each REPLAB cell may be assembled within a few hours. Through this low-cost, compact design, REPLAB aims to drive wide participation by lowering the barrier to entry into robotics and to enable easy scaling to many robots. We envision REPLAB as a framework for reproducible research across manipulation tasks, and as a step in this direction, we define a grasping benchmark consisting of a task definition, evaluation protocol, performance measures, and a dataset of over 50,000 grasp attempts. We implement, evaluate, and analyze several previously proposed grasping approaches to establish baselines for this benchmark. Project page with assembly instructions, additional details, and videos: https://goo.gl/5F9dP4.

Title: Stable Bin Packing of Non-convex 3D Objects with a Robot Manipulator
Key Words: computational geometry  control engineering computing  industrial manipulators  production engineering computing  warehouse automation  nonconvex objects  bin packing  heightmap-minimization heuristic  constructive packing pipeline  placement plans  robot motion  automated warehousing domain  packing problem  fully automatic object packing  robot manipulator  nonconvex 3D objects  high-quality packing  robot packability constraints  Robots  Three-dimensional displays  Containers  Stability analysis  Collision avoidance  Pipelines  Geometry 
Abstract: Recent progress in the field of robotic manipulation has generated interest in fully automatic object packing in warehouses. This paper proposes a formulation of the packing problem that is tailored to the automated warehousing domain. Besides minimizing waste space inside a container, the problem requires stability of the object pile during packing and the feasibility of the robot motion executing the placement plans. To address this problem, a set of constraints are formulated, and a constructive packing pipeline is proposed to solve these constraints. The pipeline is able to pack geometrically complex, non-convex objects while satisfying stability and robot packability constraints. In particular, a new 3D positioning heuristic called Heightmap-Minimization heuristic is proposed, and heightmaps are used to speed up the search. Experimental evaluation of the method is conducted with a realistic physical simulator on a dataset of scanned real-world items, demonstrating stable and high-quality packing plans compared with other 3D packing methods.

Title: A Constraint Programming Approach to Simultaneous Task Allocation and Motion Scheduling for Industrial Dual-Arm Manipulation Tasks
Key Words: constraint handling  industrial manipulators  motion control  optimisation  robot programming  robotic assembly  scheduling  robotic platforms  constraint programming approach  simultaneous task allocation  motion scheduling  industrial dual-arm manipulation tasks  dual-arm robots  industrial manipulation  assembly tasks  robot motion models  constraint optimization problems  makespan-optimized robot programs  industrial workplaces  robot-independent task model  lightweight dual-arm robots  ordered visiting constraint  ordering constraints  Task analysis  Planning  Manipulators  Robot kinematics  Job shop scheduling  Service robots 
Abstract: Modern lightweight dual-arm robots bring the physical capabilities to quickly take over tasks at typical industrial workplaces designed for workers. Low setup times - including the instructing/specifying of new tasks - are crucial to stay competitive. We propose a constraint programming approach to simultaneous task allocation and motion scheduling for such industrial manipulation and assembly tasks. Our approach covers the robot as well as connected machines. The key concept are Ordered Visiting Constraints, a descriptive and extensible model to specify such tasks with their spatiotemporal requirements and combinatorial or ordering constraints. Our solver integrates such task models and robot motion models into constraint optimization problems and solves them efficiently using various heuristics to produce makespan-optimized robot programs. For large manipulation tasks with 200 objects, our solver implemented using Google's Operations Research tools requires less than a minute to compute usable plans. The proposed task model is robot-independent and can easily be deployed to other robotic platforms. This portability is validated through several simulation-based experiments.

Title: Self-Supervised Surgical Tool Segmentation using Kinematic Information
Key Words: calibration  convolutional neural nets  endoscopes  image classification  image segmentation  learning (artificial intelligence)  medical image processing  medical robotics  optimisation  pose estimation  robot vision  surgery  training labels  optimization method  unknown hand-eye calibration  imprecise kinematic model  fully-convolutional neural network  endoscopic images  flexible robotized endoscopy system  self-supervised surgical tool segmentation  kinematic information  task automation  minimally invasive surgical operations  modern machine learning methods  manually-annotated images  surgical context  patient-to-patient differences  annotated data  self-supervised approach  robot-assisted context  pose estimation  subtask automation  hand-eye calibration  pixel-wise classification  Tools  Image segmentation  Kinematics  Shape  Robot kinematics  Cost function 
Abstract: Surgical tool segmentation in endoscopic images is the first step towards pose estimation and (sub-)task automation in challenging minimally invasive surgical operations. While many approaches in the literature have shown great results using modern machine learning methods such as convolutional neural networks, the main bottleneck lies in the acquisition of a large number of manually-annotated images for efficient learning. This is especially true in surgical context, where patient-to-patient differences impede the overall generalizability. In order to cope with this lack of annotated data, we propose a self-supervised approach in a robot-assisted context. To our knowledge, the proposed approach is the first to make use of the kinematic model of the robot in order to generate training labels. The core contribution of the paper is to propose an optimization method to obtain good labels for training despite an unknown hand-eye calibration and an imprecise kinematic model. The labels can subsequently be used for fine-tuning a fully-convolutional neural network for pixel-wise classification. As a result, the tool can be segmented in the endoscopic images without needing a single manually-annotated image. Experimental results on phantom and in vivo datasets obtained using a flexible robotized endoscopy system are very promising.

Title: Needle Localization for Robot-assisted Subretinal Injection based on Deep Learning
Key Words: biomedical optical imaging  eye  image segmentation  learning (artificial intelligence)  medical image processing  medical robotics  needles  optical tomography  surgery  visual feedback  microscope-integrated optical coherence tomography  robotic subretinal injection  needle segment  retinal surface  OCT volumetric images  MI-OCT  needle detection  human surgeons  robot-assisted surgery  high surgical precision  deep learning  robot-assisted subretinal injection  needle localization  Needles  Retina  Surgery  Image segmentation  Robots  Microscopy  Agriculture 
Abstract: Subretinal injection is known to be a complicated task for ophthalmologists to perform, the main sources of difficulties are the fine anatomy of the retina, insufficient visual feedback, and high surgical precision. Image guided robot-assisted surgery is one of the promising solutions that bring significant surgical enhancement in treatment outcome and reduces the physical limitations of human surgeons. In this paper, we demonstrate a robust framework for needle detection and localization in subretinal injection using microscope-integrated Optical Coherence Tomography (MI-OCT) based on deep learning. The proposed method consists of two main steps: a) the preprocessing of OCT volumetric images; b) needle localization in the processed images. The first step is to coarsely localize the needle position based on the needle information above the retinal surface and crop the original image into a small region of interest (ROI). Afterward, the cropped small image is fed into a well trained network for detection and localization of the needle segment. The entire framework is extensively validated in ex-vivo pig eye experiments with robotic subretinal injection. The results show that the proposed method can localize the needle accurately with a confidence of 99.2%.

Title: Robust Generalized Point Set Registration using Inhomogeneous Hybrid Mixture Models via Expectation Maximization
Key Words: computer vision  expectation-maximisation algorithm  Gaussian distribution  Gaussian processes  image registration  iterative methods  optimisation  generalized point set registration  translation vector  surface points  inhomogeneous hybrid mixture models  expectation maximization  biomedical engineering communities  orientational vector  expectation-maximization framework  registration methods  Fisher distribution mixture models  GMM  FMM  PSR  Hidden Markov models  Mixture models  Probabilistic logic  Maximum likelihood estimation  Data models  Principal component analysis  Nonhomogeneous media 
Abstract: Point set registration (PSR) is an important problem in computer vision, robotics and biomedical engineering communities. Usually, only positional information at each point is adopted in a registration. In this paper, the orientational vector (or normal vector) associated with each point is also utilized. Generalized point set registration is formulated and solved under the Expectation-Maximization (EM) framework. In the E-step, the posterior probabilities representing the correspondence probabilities are computed. In the Mstep, rigid transformation parameters including the rotation matrix, the translation vector are updated. The proposed algorithm stops when it converges to the optimal solution or a maximum number of iterations is achieved. The observed position set and normal vector set are assumed to follow Gaussian Mixture Models (GMMs) and Fisher distribution Mixture Models (FMMs), respectively. To further improve our algorithm's robustness, the hybrid mixture models (HMMs) are assumed to be inhomogeneous. Experimental results on the surface points extracted from a human femur' CT model show that our algorithm can achieve lower registration error, is more robust to noise and outliers than the state-of-the-art registration methods.

Title: Visual Guidance and Automatic Control for Robotic Personalized Stent Graft Manufacturing
Key Words: blood vessels  cameras  diseases  image matching  intelligent robots  learning (artificial intelligence)  manipulator dynamics  medical image processing  medical robotics  mobile robots  multi-robot systems  robot vision  stents  stereo image processing  robotic platforms  autonomous personalized stent graft manufacturing  stereo vision systems  personalized stent-graft manufacturing  robotic arm  dynamic stereo microscope  static wide angle view stereo webcam  multiple stereo camera configuration  sewing process  stereo matching  feature identifications  visual-servoing system  real-time intelligent robotic control  visual guidance  automatic control  robotic personalized stent graft manufacturing  AAA patient  hybrid vision system  abdominal aortic aneurysms patient  DDPG  reinforcement learning  object localization  Microscopy  Robot kinematics  Needles  Webcams  Manipulators  Aneurysm 
Abstract: Personalized stent graft is designed to treat Abdominal Aortic Aneurysms (AAA). Due to the individual difference in arterial structures, stent graft has to be custom made for each AAA patient. Robotic platforms for autonomous personalized stent graft manufacturing have been proposed in recently which rely upon stereo vision systems for coordinating multiple robots for fabricating customized stent grafts. This paper proposes a novel hybrid vision system for real-time visual-sevoing for personalized stent-graft manufacturing. To coordinate the robotic arms, this system is based on projecting a dynamic stereo microscope coordinate system onto a static wide angle view stereo webcam coordinate system. The multiple stereo camera configuration enables accurate localization of the needle in 3D during the sewing process. The scale-invariant feature transform (SIFT) method and color filtering are implemented for stereo matching and feature identifications for object localization. To maintain the clear view of the sewing process, a visual-servoing system is developed for guiding the stereo microscopes for tracking the needle movements. The deep deterministic policy gradient (DDPG) reinforcement learning algorithm is developed for real-time intelligent robotic control. Experimental results have shown that the robotic arm can learn to reach the desired targets autonomously.

Title: Towards 3D Path Planning from a Single 2D Fluoroscopic Image for Robot Assisted Fenestrated Endovascular Aortic Repair
Key Words: blood vessels  computerised tomography  diagnostic radiography  image registration  image segmentation  medical image processing  medical robotics  path planning  phantoms  CT scans  computed tomography  2D intra-operative AAA skeletons  graph matching method  3D preoperative AAA  3D distance error  skeleton length  skeleton deformation  real-time 3D robotic path planning  Abdominal Aortic Aneurysm  skeleton instantiation framework  2D fluoroscopic images  fenestrated endovascular aortic repair  single 2D fluoroscopic image  Three-dimensional displays  Two dimensional displays  Skeleton  Indexes  Robots  Arteries  Path planning 
Abstract: The current standard of intra-operative navigation during Fenestrated Endovascular Aortic Repair (FEVAR) calls for the need of 3D alignments between inserted devices and aortic branches. The navigation commonly via 2D fluoroscopic images, lacks anatomical information, resulting in longer operation hours and radiation exposure. In this paper, a skeleton instantiation framework of Abdominal Aortic Aneurysm (AAA) from a single 2D fluoroscopic image is introduced for real-time 3D robotic path planning. A graph matching method is proposed to establish the correspondences between the 3D preoperative and 2D intra-operative AAA skeletons, and then the two skeletons are registered by skeleton deformation and regularization in respect to skeleton length and smoothness. Furthermore, deep learning was used to segment 3D preoperative AAA from Computed Tomography (CT) scans to facilitate the framework automation. Simulation, phantom and patient AAA data sets have been used to validate the proposed framework. 3D distance error of 2mm was achieved in the phantom setup. Performance advantages were also achieved in terms of accuracy, robustness and time-efficiency.

Title: Multi-View Picking: Next-best-view Reaching for Improved Grasping in Clutter
Key Words: cameras  clutter  grippers  object detection  pose estimation  robot vision  uncertainty handling  clutter  occlusions  active perception approach  informative viewpoints  MVP controller  multiple fixed viewpoints  next-best-view reaching  improved grasping  camera viewpoint selection  visual grasp detection  multiview picking controller  real-time grasp pose estimates  uncertainty reduction  Visualization  Entropy  Cameras  Grasping  Clutter  Robot vision systems 
Abstract: Camera viewpoint selection is an important aspect of visual grasp detection, especially in clutter where many occlusions are present. Where other approaches use a static camera position or fixed data collection routines, our Multi-View Picking (MVP) controller uses an active perception approach to choose informative viewpoints based directly on a distribution of grasp pose estimates in real time, reducing uncertainty in the grasp poses caused by clutter and occlusions. In trials of grasping 20 objects from clutter, our MVP controller achieves 80% grasp success, outperforming a single-viewpoint grasp detector by 12%. We also show that our approach is both more accurate and more efficient than approaches which consider multiple fixed viewpoints. Code is available at https://github.com/dougsm/mvp_grasp.

Title: A Multi-Sensor Next-Best-View Framework for Geometric Model-Based Robotics Applications
Key Words: computational geometry  image reconstruction  image sensors  inspection  mobile robots  robot vision  solid modelling  model building process  weld seam inspection  multisensor next-best-view framework  geometric model-based robotics applications  consecutive sensing actions  robotic 3D reconstruction systems  reconstruction goals  Modeling  Robot sensing systems  Three-dimensional displays  Cameras  Task analysis 
Abstract: Geometric models are crucial for many robotics applications. Current robotic 3D reconstruction systems only focus on specific reconstruction goals which make them hard to adapt to different tasks. In this paper we present a next-best-view framework which allows robots to construct a geometric model incrementally through consecutive sensing actions. Instead of limiting the type and total number of sensors, in each sensing step we evaluate actions from all available sensors and pick the best to execute. Our framework is more comprehensive since the model building process can be designed to best accomplish different tasks. The system has been demonstrated in two experiments on 3D reconstruction and weld seam inspection, yielding promising results.

Title: Model-Free Optimal Estimation and Sensor Placement Framework for Elastic Kinematic Chain
Key Words: elasticity  manipulator kinematics  maximum likelihood estimation  motion control  optimal control  probability  sensor placement  sensors  inertial measurement unit sensors  high-DOF EKC  high-degree-of-freedom EKC  maximum a posteriori estimation  posterior probability  real-time output estimation  optimal placement  optimal IMU placement  MAP estimation  POD mode  nondominant modes  proper orthogonal decomposition  IMU sensors  elastic kinematic chain  sensor placement framework  model-free optimal estimation  Estimation  Robot sensing systems  Vibrations  Kinematics  Manipulators  Telerobotics  Covariance matrices 
Abstract: We propose a novel model-free optimal estimation and sensor placement framework for a high-DOF (degree-of-freedom) EKC (elastic kinematic chain) with only a limited number of IMU (inertial measurement unit) sensors based on POD (proper orthogonal decomposition) and MAP (maximum a posteriori) estimation. First, we (off-line) excite the system richly enough, collect the data and perform the POD to extract dominant and non-dominant modes. We then decide the minimum number of IMUs according to the dominant modes, and construct the prior distribution of the output (i.e., top-end position of EKC) based on the singular value of each POD mode. We also formulate the MAP estimation given the prior distribution and different placements of the IMUs and choose the optimal IMU placement to maximize the posterior probability. This optimal placement is then used for real-time output estimation of the EKC. Experiments are also performed to verify the theory.

Title: Tree Search Techniques for Minimizing Detectability and Maximizing Visibility
Key Words: game theory  minimax techniques  Monte Carlo methods  tree searching  trees (mathematics)  tree search techniques  reconnaissance mission  pursuit-evasion problem  finite-horizon path  zero-sum game  game tree search algorithms  minimax search tree  Monte-Carlo search tree  detectability minimization  visibility maximization  visibility-based target search  pruning techniques  Games  Search problems  Planning  Monte Carlo methods  Game theory  Task analysis  Reconnaissance 
Abstract: We introduce and study the problem of planning a trajectory for an agent to carry out a reconnaissance mission while avoiding being detected by an adversarial guard. This introduces a multi-objective version of classical visibility-based target search and pursuit-evasion problem. In our formulation, the agent receives a positive reward for increasing its visibility (by exploring new regions) and a negative penalty every time it is detected by the guard. The objective is to find a finite-horizon path for the agent that balances the trade off between maximizing visibility and minimizing detectability.We model this problem as a discrete, sequential, two-player, zero-sum game. We use two types of game tree search algorithms to solve this problem: minimax search tree and Monte-Carlo search tree. Both search trees can yield the optimal policy but may require possibly exponential computational time and space. We propose several pruning techniques to reduce the computational cost while still preserving optimality guarantees. Simulation results show that the proposed strategy prunes approximately three orders of magnitude nodes as compared to the brute-force strategy. We also find that the Monte-Carlo search tree saves approximately one order of computational time as compared to the minimax search tree.

Title: Chance Constrained Motion Planning for High-Dimensional Robots
Key Words: collision avoidance  mobile robots  optimal control  probability  chance constrained motion planning  high-dimensional robots  Probabilistic Chekov  chance-constrained motion planning system  degree-of-freedom robots  motion uncertainty  state information  observation noise models  deterministic motion planning  integrated trajectory optimization  sparse roadmap framework  planning speed  high-dimensional tasks  linear-quadratic Gaussian motion planning approach  robot state probability distribution  collision risk estimation  robotic planning tasks  p-Chekov system  user-specified chance constraints  real-world planning scenarios  Planning  Robots  Trajectory  Collision avoidance  Task analysis  Estimation  Uncertainty 
Abstract: This paper introduces Probabilistic Chekov (p-Chekov), a chance-constrained motion planning system that can be applied to high degree-of-freedom (DOF) robots under motion uncertainty and imperfect state information. Given process and observation noise models, it can find feasible trajectories which satisfy a user-specified bound over the probability of collision. Leveraging our previous work in deterministic motion planning which integrated trajectory optimization into a sparse roadmap framework, p-Chekov shows superiority in its planning speed for high-dimensional tasks. P-Chekov incorporates a linear-quadratic Gaussian motion planning approach into the estimation of the robot state probability distribution, applies quadrature theories to waypoint collision risk estimation, and adapts risk allocation approaches to assign allowable probabilities of failure among waypoints. Unlike other existing risk-aware planners, p-Chekov can be applied to high-DOF robotic planning tasks without the convexification of the environment. The experiment results in this paper show that this p-Chekov system can effectively reduce collision risk and satisfy user-specified chance constraints in typical real-world planning scenarios for high-DOF robots.

Title: Complete and Near-Optimal Path Planning for Simultaneous Sensor-Based Inspection and Footprint Coverage in Robotic Crack Filling
Key Words: filling  inspection  mobile robots  optimal control  path planning  sensors  surface cracks  near-optimal path planning  robotic crack  simultaneous robotic footprint  range sensors  complete sensor coverage  planning strategy  crack-filling robotic prototype  online planning algorithm  sensor-based inspection  near-optimal footprint coverage  online sensor-based complete coverage planning  online SCC planning  Robot sensing systems  Planning  Inspection  Space exploration  Surface cracks 
Abstract: A simultaneous robotic footprint and sensor coverage planning scheme is proposed to efficiently detect all the unknown targets with range sensors and cover the targets with the robot's footprint in a structured environment. The proposed online Sensor-based Complete Coverage (online SCC) planning minimizes the total traveling distance of the robot, guarantees the complete sensor coverage of the whole free space, and achieves near-optimal footprint coverage of all the targets. The planning strategy is applied to a crack-filling robotic prototype to detect and fill all the unknown cracks on ground surfaces. Simulation and experimental results are presented that confirm the efficiency and effectiveness of the proposed online planning algorithm.

Title: Approximate Stability Analysis for Drystacked Structures
Key Words: building materials  geometry  linear programming  mechanical stability  planning  road building  shrinkage  construction materials  contact geometry  geometric safety factor  automated dry stacking procedure  building elements  structural stability analysis  kern  shrinkage  linear programming  fully simulated shaking test  heuristics-based planning  assembly process  Stability analysis  Force  Friction  Mathematical model  Stacking  Numerical stability  Buildings 
Abstract: We introduce a fast approximate stability analysis into an automated dry stacking procedure. Evaluating structural stability is essential for any type of construction, but especially challenging in techniques where building elements remain distinct and do not use fasteners or adhesives. Due to the irregular shape of construction materials, autonomous agents have restricted knowledge of contact geometry, which makes existing analysis tools difficult to deploy. In this paper, a geometric safety factor called kern is used to estimate how much the contact interface can shrink and the structure still be feasible, where feasibility can be checked efficiently using linear programming. We validate the stability measure by comparing the proposed methods with a fully simulated shaking test in 2D. We also improve existing heuristics-based planning by adding the proposed measure into the assembly process.

Title: User-Guided Offline Synthesis of Robot Arm Motion from 6-DoF Paths
Key Words: control system synthesis  end effectors  manipulator kinematics  motion control  trajectory control  orientation goals  joint-space discontinuities  user specifications  user-guided offline synthesis  robot arm motion  6-DoF path  robot arms  end-effector  trajectories  pose goals  self-collisions  kinematic singularities  Trajectory  End effectors  Interpolation  Kinematics  Optimization  Aerospace electronics 
Abstract: We present an offline method to generate smooth, feasible motion for robot arms such that end-effector pose goals of a 6-DoF path are matched within acceptable limits specified by the user. Our approach aims to accurately match the position and orientation goals of the given path, and allows deviation from these goals if there is danger of self-collisions, joint-space discontinuities or kinematic singularities. Our method generates multiple candidate trajectories, and selects the best by incorporating sparse user input that specifies what kinds of deviations are acceptable. We apply our method to a range of challenging paths and show that our method generates solutions that achieve smooth, feasible motions while closely approximating the given pose goals and adhering to user specifications.

Title: Visual Robot Task Planning
Key Words: learning (artificial intelligence)  mobile robots  Monte Carlo methods  neural net architecture  planning (artificial intelligence)  robot vision  tree searching  visual robot task planning  visual information  planning algorithm  neural network architecture  Monte Carlo tree search  block-stacking simulation  Task analysis  Planning  Visualization  Predictive models  Robots  Transforms  Computer architecture 
Abstract: Prospection is key to solving challenging problems in new environments, but it has not been deeply explored as applied to task planning for perception-driven robotics. We propose visual robot task planning, where we take in an input image and must generate a sequence of high-level actions and associated observations that achieve some task. In this paper, we describe a neural network architecture and associated planning algorithm that (1) learns a representation of the world that can generate prospective futures, (2) uses this generative model to simulate the result of sequences of high-level actions in a variety of environments, and (3) evaluates these actions via a variant of Monte Carlo Tree Search to find a viable solution to a particular problem. Our approach allows us to visualize intermediate motion goals and learn to plan complex activity from visual information, and used this to generate and visualize task plans on held-out examples of a block-stacking simulation.

Title: Towards Blended Reactive Planning and Acting using Behavior Trees
Key Words: mobile robots  multi-agent systems  path planning  trees (mathematics)  planning algorithm  dynamic environment  solution blend acting  external disturbances  external agent  behavior trees  robotics scenarios  blended reactive planning  back chaining  Planning  Heuristic algorithms  Task analysis  Service robots  Industries  Robot sensing systems 
Abstract: In this paper, we show how a planning algorithm can be used to automatically create and update a Behavior Tree (BT), controlling a robot in a dynamic environment. The planning part of the algorithm is based on the idea of back chaining. Starting from a goal condition we iteratively select actions to achieve that goal, and if those actions have unmet preconditions, they are extended with actions to achieve them in the same way. The fact that BTs are inherently modular and reactive makes the proposed solution blend acting and planning in a way that enables the robot to effectively react to external disturbances. If an external agent undoes an action the robot reexecutes it without re-planning, and if an external agent helps the robot, it skips the corresponding actions, again without replanning. We illustrate our approach in two different robotics scenarios.

Title: Visual Representations for Semantic Target Driven Navigation
Key Words: image representation  image segmentation  learning (artificial intelligence)  mobile robots  navigation  path planning  robot vision  visual representations  semantic target driven navigation  semantic visual navigation  semantic segmentation  domain adaptation  computer vision algorithms  robot  deep network  navigation policy learning  Navigation  Visualization  Semantics  Training  Adaptation models  Robots  Task analysis 
Abstract: What is a good visual representation for navigation? We study this question in the context of semantic visual navigation, which is the problem of a robot finding its way through a previously unseen environment to a target object, e.g. go to the refrigerator. Instead of acquiring a metric semantic map of an environment and using planning for navigation, our approach learns navigation policies on top of representations that capture spatial layout and semantic contextual cues. We propose to use semantic segmentation and detection masks as observations obtained by state-of-the-art computer vision algorithms and use a deep network to learn the navigation policy. The availability of equitable representations in simulated environments enables joint training using real and simulated data and alleviates the need for domain adaptation or domain randomization commonly used to tackle the sim-to-real transfer of the learned policies. Both the representation and the navigation policy can be readily applied to real non-synthetic environments as demonstrated on the Active Vision Dataset [1]. Our approach successfully gets to the target in 54% of the cases in unexplored environments, compared to 46% for a non-learning based approach, and 28% for a learning-based baseline.

Title: Deep Object-Centric Policies for Autonomous Driving
Key Words: computer games  convolutional neural nets  data visualisation  learning (artificial intelligence)  traffic engineering computing  object-centric models  object instances  end-to-end learning  Grand Theft Auto V simulator  object-agnostic methods  object-centric policies  autonomous driving  visuomotor skills  deep neural networks  robotics tasks  intuitive visualization  Berkeley DeepDrive Video dataset  Task analysis  Training  Taxonomy  Automobiles  Autonomous vehicles  Feature extraction  Robots 
Abstract: While learning visuomotor skills in an end-to-end manner is appealing, deep neural networks are often uninterpretable and fail in surprising ways. For robotics tasks, such as autonomous driving, models that explicitly represent objects may be more robust to new scenes and provide intuitive visualizations. We describe a taxonomy of “object-centric” models which leverage both object instances and end-to-end learning. In the Grand Theft Auto V simulator, we show that object-centric models outperform object-agnostic methods in scenes with other vehicles and pedestrians, even with an imperfect detector. We also demonstrate that our architectures perform well on real-world environments by evaluating on the Berkeley DeepDrive Video dataset, where an object-centric model outperforms object-agnostic models in the low-data regimes.

Title: Neural Autonomous Navigation with Riemannian Motion Policy
Key Words: collision avoidance  geometry  learning (artificial intelligence)  mobile robots  neurocontrollers  optimal control  predictive control  robot vision  image-based autonomous navigation technique  Riemannian motion policy framework  vehicular control  deep learning  policy structure  data complexity  modeling error  end-to-end learning  neural autonomous navigation  local geometry  RMP representation  indoor obstacle avoidance  Gibson environment  optimal control commands  visual images  control point RMPs  deep neural network  Acceleration  Geometry  Autonomous robots  Measurement  Neural networks  Kinematics 
Abstract: End-to-end learning for autonomous navigation has received substantial attention recently as a promising method for reducing modeling error. However, its data complexity, especially around generalization to unseen environments, is high. We introduce a novel image-based autonomous navigation technique that leverages in policy structure using the Riemannian Motion Policy (RMP) framework for deep learning of vehicular control. We design a deep neural network to predict control point RMPs of the vehicle from visual images, from which the optimal control commands can be computed analytically. We show that our network trained in the Gibson environment can be used for indoor obstacle avoidance and navigation on a real RC car, and our RMP representation generalizes better to unseen environments than predicting local geometry or predicting control commands directly.

Title: Two-Stage Transfer Learning for Heterogeneous Robot Detection and 3D Joint Position Estimation in a 2D Camera Image Using CNN
Key Words: calibration  cameras  collision avoidance  convolutional neural nets  dexterous manipulators  feature extraction  image classification  image colour analysis  image segmentation  learning (artificial intelligence)  multi-robot systems  robot vision  two-stage transfer learning approach  multiobjective convolutional neural network  heterogeneous robot arms  eye-to-hand calibration  universal robots  two-stage transfer learning  2D colour image  collision avoidance algorithms  fixed robot-camera setups  collision detection  factory floors  collaborative robots  2D camera image  3D joint position estimation  heterogeneous robot detection  multiobjective CNN  data collection approach  Robot kinematics  Collision avoidance  Cameras  Robot vision systems  Calibration 
Abstract: Collaborative robots are becoming more common on factory floors as well as regular environments, however, their safety still is not a fully solved issue. Collision detection does not always perform as expected and collision avoidance is still an active research area. Collision avoidance works well for fixed robot-camera setups, however, if they are shifted around, Eye-to-Hand calibration becomes invalid making it difficult to accurately run many of the existing collision avoidance algorithms. We approach the problem by presenting a stand-alone system capable of detecting the robot and estimating its position, including individual joints, by using a simple 2D colour image as an input, where no Eye-to-Hand calibration is needed. As an extension of previous work, a two-stage transfer learning approach is used to re-train a multi-objective convolutional neural network (CNN) to allow it to be used with heterogeneous robot arms. Our method is capable of detecting the robot in real-time and new robot types can be added by having significantly smaller training datasets compared to the requirements of a fully trained network. We present data collection approach, the structure of the multi-objective CNN, the two-stage transfer learning training and test results by using real robots from Universal Robots, Kuka, and Franka Emika. Eventually, we analyse possible application areas of our method together with the possible improvements.

Title: 3D Control of Rotating Millimeter-Scale Swimmers Through Obstacles
Key Words: biomechanics  biomedical equipment  blood  blood vessels  medical control systems  propulsion  swimmer designs  rotating millimeter-scale swimmers  aorta  blood clot  rotational movement  high speed 3D navigation  Arteries  Electromagnets  Force  Trajectory  Manipulators  Velocity control  Navigation 
Abstract: This study investigates the high speed 3D navigation of rotating millimeter-scale swimmers. The swimmers have a spiral-shaped surface to ensure propulsion. The rotational movement is used for propulsion and, in future work, could provide the power needed to remove blood clots. For instance, an abrasive tip could be used to progressively grind a blood clot. An algorithm to perform 3D control of rotating millimeter-scale swimmers was implemented and tested experimentally. The swimmers can follow a trajectory and can navigate without touching the walls inside a tube having a diameter of 15 mm. This diameter is smaller than the average diameter of the distal descending aorta, which is the smallest section of the aorta. Several swimmers designs were built and tested. The maximum velocity recorded for our best swimmer was 103.6 mm/s with a rotational speed of 477.5 rotations per second.

Title: Automatic Optical Coherence Tomography Imaging of Stationary and Moving Eyes with a Robotically-Aligned Scanner
Key Words: biomedical optical imaging  cameras  eye  medical image processing  medical robotics  optical tomography  pupil tracking accuracy  tracking bandwidth  optical coherence tomography imaging  sub-millimeter eye tracking accuracy  tracking eyes  stationary eyes  commercial robot arm  fast axial tracking  reference arm adjustment  fine alignment  stereo pupil cameras  coarse pupil cameras  fixed-base RGB-D cameras  automatic eye imaging  OCT scanner capable  ophthalmology offices  OCT screening  unconscious patients  OCT diagnostics  ophthalmic photographers  chinrest stabilization  tabletop instruments  clinical ophthalmic OCT systems  robotically-aligned scanner  size 12.0 mum  time 83.2 ms  frequency 9.7 Hz  Cameras  Tracking  Robot vision systems  Robot kinematics  Face  Medical robotics  optical coherence tomography  image stabilization 
Abstract: Optical coherence tomography (OCT) has found great success in ophthalmology where it plays a key role in screening and diagnostics. Clinical ophthalmic OCT systems are typically deployed as tabletop instruments that require chinrest stabilization and trained ophthalmic photographers to operate. These requirements preclude OCT diagnostics in bedbound or unconscious patients who cannot use a chinrest, and restrict OCT screening to ophthalmology offices. We present a robotically-aligned OCT scanner capable of automatic eye imaging without chinrests. The scanner features eye tracking from fixed-base RGB-D cameras for coarse and stereo pupil cameras for fine alignment, as well as galvanometer aiming for fast lateral tracking, reference arm adjustment for fast axial tracking, and a commercial robot arm for slow lateral and axial tracking. We demonstrate the system's performance autonomously aligning with stationary eyes, pursuing moving eyes, and tracking eyes undergoing physiologic motion. The system demonstrates sub-millimeter eye tracking accuracy, 12 μm lateral pupil tracking accuracy, 83.2 ms stabilization time following step disturbance, and 9.7 Hz tracking bandwidth.

Title: Online Multilayered Motion Planning with Dynamic Constraints for Autonomous Underwater Vehicles
Key Words: autonomous underwater vehicles  collision avoidance  mobile robots  trajectory control  vehicle dynamics  underwater robot  online multilayered motion planning  autonomous underwater vehicles  loosely coupled multilayered planning design  motion planner  hydro-dynamic forces  trajectory planning  robots onboard computer  AUVs  inevitable collision states  Planning  Trajectory  Lead  Vehicle dynamics  Robots  Dynamics  Unmanned underwater vehicles 
Abstract: Underwater robots are subject to complex hydro-dynamic forces. These forces define how the vehicle moves, so it is important to consider them when planning trajectories. However, performing motion planning considering the dynamics on the robot's onboard computer is challenging due to the limited computational resources available. In this paper an efficient motion planning framework for autonomous underwater vehicles (AUVs) is presented. By introducing a loosely coupled multilayered planning design, our framework is able to generate dynamically feasible trajectories while keeping the planning time low enough for online planning. First, a fast path planner operating in a lower-dimensional projected space computes a lead path from the start to the goal configuration. Then, the lead path is used to bias the sampling of a second motion planner, which takes into account all the dynamic constraints. Furthermore, we propose a strategy for online planning that saves computational resources by generating the final trajectory only up to a finite horizon. By using the finite horizon strategy together with the multilayered approach, the sampling of the second planner focuses on regions where good quality solutions are more likely to be found, significantly reducing the planning time. To provide strong safety guarantees our framework also incorporates the conservative approximations of inevitable collision states (icss). finally, we present simulations and experiments using a real underwater robot to demonstrate the capabilities of our framework.

Title: Making Sense of Vision and Touch: Self-Supervised Learning of Multimodal Representations for Contact-Rich Tasks
Key Words: learning (artificial intelligence)  manipulators  haptic feedback  visual feedback  robot controller  deep reinforcement learning  high-dimensional inputs  sample complexity  multimodal representation  sensory inputs  policy learning  peg insertion task  self-supervised learning  multimodal representations  contact-rich manipulation tasks  Task analysis  Robot sensing systems  Haptic interfaces  Visualization  Geometry  Reinforcement learning 
Abstract: Contact-rich manipulation tasks in unstructured environments often require both haptic and visual feedback. However, it is non-trivial to manually design a robot controller that combines modalities with very different characteristics. While deep reinforcement learning has shown success in learning control policies for high-dimensional inputs, these algorithms are generally intractable to deploy on real robots due to sample complexity. We use self-supervision to learn a compact and multimodal representation of our sensory inputs, which can then be used to improve the sample efficiency of our policy learning. We evaluate our method on a peg insertion task, generalizing over different geometry, configurations, and clearances, while being robust to external perturbations. We present results in simulation and on a real robot.

Title: Deep Visuo-Tactile Learning: Estimation of Tactile Properties from Images
Key Words: control engineering computing  end effectors  feature extraction  image colour analysis  learning (artificial intelligence)  mobile robots  neural nets  robot vision  tactile sensors  visual perception  deep visuo-tactile learning  tactile sensor data  Webcam  tactile properties  visual perception  encoder-decoder network  latent variables  tactile features  visual features  RGB images  uSkin tactile sensor  end-effector  feature space  Sawyer robot  Tactile sensors  Training  Time series analysis  Decoding 
Abstract: Estimation of tactile properties from vision, such as slipperiness or roughness, is important to effectively interact with the environment. These tactile properties help us decide which actions we should choose and how to perform them. E.g., we can drive slower if we see that we have bad traction or grasp tighter if an item looks slippery. We believe that this ability also helps robots to enhance their understanding of the environment, and thus enables them to tailor their actions to the situation at hand. We therefore propose a model to estimate the degree of tactile properties from visual perception alone (e.g., the level of slipperiness or roughness). Our method extends a encoder-decoder network, in which the latent variables are visual and tactile features. In contrast to previous works, our method does not require manual labeling, but only RGB images and the corresponding tactile sensor data. All our data is collected with a webcam and uSkin tactile sensor mounted on the end-effector of a Sawyer robot, which strokes the surfaces of 25 different materials. We show that our model generalizes to materials not included in the training data by evaluating the feature space, indicating that it has learned to associate important tactile properties with images.

Title: Variational End-to-End Navigation and Localization
Key Words: cameras  Global Positioning System  learning (artificial intelligence)  mobile robots  navigation  path planning  probability  variational techniques  point-topoint navigation algorithms  full-scale autonomous vehicle  localization algorithm  variational end-to-end navigation  deep learning  autonomous vehicle control  raw sensory data  navigation instruction  end-to-end driving networks  point-to-point navigation  probabilistic localization  noisy GPS data  raw camera data  higher level roadmaps  probability distribution  deterministic control command  rough localization  real-world driving data  variational network  Navigation  Roads  Cameras  Robot sensing systems  Visualization  Partitioning algorithms 
Abstract: Deep learning has revolutionized the ability to learn “end-to-end” autonomous vehicle control directly from raw sensory data. While there have been recent extensions to handle forms of navigation instruction, these works are unable to capture the full distribution of possible actions that could be taken and to reason about localization of the robot within the environment. In this paper, we extend end-to-end driving networks with the ability to perform point-to-point navigation as well as probabilistic localization using only noisy GPS data. We define a novel variational network capable of learning from raw camera data of the environment as well as higher level roadmaps to predict (1) a full probability distribution over the possible control commands; and (2) a deterministic control command capable of navigating on the route specified within the map. Additionally, we formulate how our model can be used to localize the robot according to correspondences between the map and the observed visual road topology, inspired by the rough localization that human drivers can perform. We test our algorithms on real-world driving data that the vehicle has never driven through before, and integrate our point-topoint navigation algorithms onboard a full-scale autonomous vehicle for real-time performance. Our localization algorithm is also evaluated over a new set of roads and intersections to demonstrates rough pose localization even in situations without any GPS prior.

Title: Closing the Sim-to-Real Loop: Adapting Simulation Randomization with Real World Experience
Key Words: learning (artificial intelligence)  mobile robots  real world experience  simulation parameter distribution  policy training  policy transfer  policy behavior  sim-to-real loop  simulation randomization  swing-peg-in-hole  cabinet drawer opening  Adaptation models  Training  Data models  Robots  Computational modeling  Trajectory  Task analysis 
Abstract: We consider the problem of transferring policies to the real world by training on a distribution of simulated scenarios. Rather than manually tuning the randomization of simulations, we adapt the simulation parameter distribution using a few real world roll-outs interleaved with policy training. In doing so, we are able to change the distribution of simulations to improve the policy transfer by matching the policy behavior in simulation and the real world. We show that policies trained with our method are able to reliably transfer to different robots in two real world tasks: swing-peg-in-hole and opening a cabinet drawer. The video of our experiments can be found at https://sites.google.com/view/simopt.

Title: Robotic Orientation Control of Deformable Cells
Key Words: biomechanics  cellular biophysics  deformation  manipulators  medical robotics  mobile robots  neurocontrollers  path planning  position control  robotic orientation control  deformable cells  robotic manipulation  deformable objects  rigid objects  robotics  deformable synthetic objects  rubber balls  clothes  biological cells  manual cell rotation control  robotic approach  mathematical modeling  path planning  minimal cell deformation  cell damage  force model  minimal force  contact mechanics model  manipulation path  compensation controller  oocyte orientation control  maximum oocyte deformation  Position control  Strain  Force  Robots  Shape  Path planning  Standards 
Abstract: Robotic manipulation of deformable objects (vs. rigid objects) has been a classic topic in robotics. Compared to deformable synthetic objects such as rubber balls and clothes, biological cells are highly deformable and more prone to damage. This paper presents robotic manipulation of deformable cells for orientation control (both out-of-plane and in-plane), which is required in both clinical (e.g., in vitro fertilization) and biomedical (e.g., clone) applications. Compared to manual cell rotation control based on empirical experience, the robotic approach, based on mathematical modeling and path planning, effectively rotates a cell while consistently maintaining minimal cell deformation to avoid cell damage. A force model is established to determine the minimal force applied by the micropipette to rotate a spherical or more generally, an ellipsoidal mouse oocyte. The force information is translated into indentation through a contact mechanics model, and the manipulation path of the micropipette is formed by connecting the indentation positions on the oocyte. A compensation controller is designed to compensate for the variations of mechanical properties across cells. The polar body of an oocyte is detected by deep neural networks with robustness to shape and size differences. Experimental results demonstrate that the system achieved an accuracy of 97.6% in polar body detection and an accuracy of 0.7° in oocyte orientation control with maximum oocyte deformation of 2.69 μm.

Title: Drift-free Roll and Pitch Estimation for High-acceleration Hopping
Key Words: acceleration control  attitude control  gyroscopes  legged locomotion  motion control  path planning  stability  velocity control  monopedal jumping robots  onboard rate gyroscopes  encoders  attitude estimate disturbances  onboard velocity estimation  extreme stance accelerations  high-acceleration hopping  untethered robot  drift-free roll and pitch estimation  drift-free roll and pitch attitude estimation scheme  fully autonomous stable hopping control  rectangular path  onboard dead-reckoning  human wireless joystick direction  Legged locomotion  Robot sensing systems  Attitude control  Estimation  Gyroscopes 
Abstract: We develop a drift-free roll and pitch attitude estimation scheme for monopedal jumping robots. The estimator uses only onboard rate gyroscopes and encoders and does not rely on external sensing or processing. It is capable of recovering from attitude estimate disturbances and, together with onboard velocity estimation, enables fully autonomous stable hopping control. The estimator performs well on a small untethered robot capable of large jumps and extreme stance accelerations. We demonstrate that the robot can follow a rectangular path using onboard dead-reckoning with less than 2 meters of drift over 200 seconds and 300 jumps covering 60 m. We also demonstrate that the robot can operate untethered outdoors under human wireless joystick direction.

Title: Efficient Symbolic Reactive Synthesis for Finite-Horizon Tasks
Key Words: binary decision diagrams  mobile robots  pick-and-place tasks  binary decision diagram  UR5 robot  efficient symbolic reactive synthesis  compositional approach  explicit state approach  finite-horizon tasks  Task analysis  Robots  Planning  Games  Robotic assembly  Semantics  Binary decision diagrams 
Abstract: When humans and robots perform complex tasks together, the robot must have a strategy to choose its actions based on observed human behavior. One well-studied approach for finding such strategies is reactive synthesis. Existing approaches for finite-horizon tasks have used an explicit state approach, which incurs high runtime. In this work, we present a compositional approach to perform synthesis for finite-horizon tasks based on binary decision diagrams. We show that for pick-and-place tasks, the compositional approach achieves orders-of-magnitude speed-ups compared to previous approaches. We demonstrate the synthesized strategy on a UR5 robot.

Title: Combined Task and Motion Planning under Partial Observability: An Optimization-Based Approach
Key Words: computational complexity  decision trees  mobile robots  optimisation  path planning  partial observability  optimization-based approach  compute optimal plans  symbolic decision tree  path tree  optimal motion  independent optimizations  combined task and motion planning  optimization-based TAMP methods  Trajectory  Planning  Optimization  Observability  Task analysis  Robots  Decision trees 
Abstract: We propose a novel approach to Combined Task and Motion Planning (TAMP) under partial observability. Previous optimization-based TAMP methods [1][2] compute optimal plans and paths assuming full observability. However, partial observability requires the solution to be a policy that reacts to the observations that the agent receives. We consider a formulation where observations introduce additional branching in the symbolic decision tree. The solution is now given by a reactive policy on the symbolic level together with a path tree that describes the branchings of optimal motion depending on the observations. Our method works in two stages: First, the symbolic policy is optimized using approximate path costs estimated from independent optimizations of trajectory pieces. Second, we fix the best symbolic policy and optimize a joint trajectory tree. We test our approach on object manipulation and autonomous driving examples. We also compare the algorithm's performance to a state-of-the-art TAMP planner in fully observable cases.

Title: Towards Robust Product Packing with a Minimalistic End-Effector
Key Words: design engineering  end effectors  mobile robots  object detection  robot vision  warehouse automation  object detection algorithms  manipulation primitives  cubic objects  vacuum-based end-effector  single robot arm  RGB-D data  failure conditions  robust pipeline  unstructured piles  packing tasks  order fulfillment  warehouse automation  hardware designs  sensor technologies  minimalistic end-effector  towards robust product packing  End effectors  Task analysis  Robot sensing systems  Pipelines  Three-dimensional displays  Robot kinematics 
Abstract: Advances in sensor technologies, object detection algorithms, planning frameworks and hardware designs have motivated the deployment of robots in warehouse automation. A variety of such applications, like order fulfillment or packing tasks, require picking objects from unstructured piles and carefully arranging them in bins or containers. Desirable solutions need to be low-cost, easily deployable and controllable, making minimalistic hardware choices desirable. The challenge in designing an effective solution to this problem relates to appropriately integrating multiple components, so as to achieve a robust pipeline that minimizes failure conditions. The current work proposes a complete pipeline for solving such packing tasks, given access only to RGB-D data and a single robot arm with a vacuum-based end-effector, which is also used as a pushing finger. To achieve the desired level of robustness, three key manipulation primitives are identified, which take advantage of the environment and simple operations to successfully pack multiple cubic objects. The overall approach is demonstrated to be robust to execution and perception errors. The impact of each manipulation primitive is evaluated by considering different versions of the proposed pipeline, which incrementally introduce reasoning about object poses and corrective manipulation actions.

Title: Gesture Recognition Via Flexible Capacitive Touch Electrodes
Key Words: biomechanics  biomedical electrodes  biomedical measurement  Bluetooth  capacitive sensors  gesture recognition  medical computing  microcontrollers  random forests  skin  tactile sensors  gesture recognition accuracy  basic finger  flexible capacitive touch electrodes  classification algorithms  random forest algorithm  wrist motions  Cutkosky Grasp Taxonomy  bluetooth transceiver  microcontroller  elbow  wireless wearable device  Electrodes  Muscles  Capacitance  Gesture recognition  Sensors  Wrist  Skin 
Abstract: A novel wearable device for gesture recognition was developed and tested on five subjects. The low-cost, wireless wearable device was engineered with a set of seven flexible capacitive touch electrodes sewn into an armband to be worn on the forearm between the wrist and elbow. These capacitive touch electrodes were interfaced with a microcontroller and bluetooth transceiver for measurement and transmission. As different gestures are made, flexing muscles beneath the skin affect the capacitance measured on these seven electrodes. A set of 32 gestures were tested including the 16 grasps in the Cutkosky Grasp Taxonomy and 16 basic finger and wrist motions. Several classification algorithms were tested on this data. Using a Random Forest (RF) algorithm to classify the training data, an average gesture recognition accuracy of 95.6 ± 0.06% was achieved across all five subjects individually.

Title: Robust Learning of Tactile Force Estimation through Robot Interaction
Key Words: control engineering computing  force feedback  learning (artificial intelligence)  neural nets  robots  tactile sensors  learned force model  robust learning  tactile force estimation  robot interaction  analytic models  robust model  SynTouch BioTac sensor  neural networks  voxelized input feature layer  spatial signals  sensor surface  robust tactile force model  force torque sensor  FT sensor  force inference  planar pushing task  force direction  force estimation  tactile sensor signals  force feedback grasp controller  Force  Robot sensing systems  Biological system modeling  Task analysis  Biosensors  Neural networks 
Abstract: Current methods for estimating force from tactile sensor signals are either inaccurate analytic models or task-specific learned models. In this paper, we explore learning a robust model that maps tactile sensor signals to force. We specifically explore learning a mapping for the SynTouch BioTac sensor via neural networks. We propose a voxelized input feature layer for spatial signals and leverage information about the sensor surface to regularize the loss function. To learn a robust tactile force model that transfers across tasks, we generate ground truth data from three different sources: (1) the BioTac rigidly mounted to a force torque (FT) sensor, (2) a robot interacting with a ball rigidly attached to the same FT sensor, and (3) through force inference on a planar pushing task by formalizing the mechanics as a system of particles and optimizing over the object motion. A total of 140k samples were collected from the three sources. We achieve a median angular accuracy of 3.5 degrees in predicting force direction (66% improvement over the current state of the art) and a median magnitude accuracy of 0.06 N (93% improvement) on a test dataset. Additionally, we evaluate the learned force model in a force feedback grasp controller performing object lifting and gentle placement. Our results can be found on https: //sites.google.com/view/tactile-force.

Title: Soft Robotic Glove with Integrated Sensing for Intuitive Grasping Assistance Post Spinal Cord Injury
Key Words: biomechanics  capacitive sensors  data gloves  elastomers  handicapped aids  injuries  neurophysiology  patient rehabilitation  soft robotic glove  integrated sensing  intuitive grasping assistance post spinal cord injury  multiarticular textile actuators  custom soft sensors  intuitive state machine intent detection controller  pressurized actuators  natural human fingers  textile-elastomer capacitive sensors  finger flexion  intuitive user control  state machine controller  integrated sensors  hand-object interactions  injury levels  inadvertent grasp triggers  Actuators  Force  Sensor phenomena and characterization  Textiles  Capacitive sensors  Strain 
Abstract: This paper presents a fully-integrated soft robotic glove with multi-articular textile actuators, custom soft sensors, and an intuitive state machine intent detection controller. We demonstrate that the pressurized actuators can generate motion and force comparable to natural human fingers through bench-top testing. We apply textile-elastomer capacitive sensors to the glove to track finger flexion via strain and detect contact with objects via force. Intuitive user control is achieved via a state machine controller based on signals from the integrated sensors to detect relative changes in hand-object interactions. Results from an initial evaluation with 3 participants with spinal cord injury (SCI), of varied injury levels and years since injury, wearing and controlling the glove show an average of 87% improvement in grasping force, and improvements in functional assessments for participants with recent injuries. A significant variation in response suggests further investigation is required to understand the adaptation needed across different injury levels and durations since injury. Additionally, we evaluate the controller and find an average of 3 seconds from user initiations to completed grasps, and 10% inadvertent grasp triggers and no false releases when objects are held.

Title: Shape Sensing of Variable Stiffness Soft Robots using Electrical Impedance Tomography
Key Words: biological tissues  computerised tomography  electric impedance imaging  electric impedance measurement  image reconstruction  medical robotics  pneumatic actuators  surgery  tomography  reduced contact trauma  soft tissues  tortuous paths  minimally invasive surgery  intraoperative shape sensing  proprioceptive soft actuator  self-sensing  electrically conductive working fluid  tomographic reconstructions  two-degree-of-freedom designs  hydraulic hinged actuator  pneumatic finger actuator  EIT images  FDM-EIT  shape sensor  variable stiffness soft robots  electrical impedance tomography  deformability  electrical impedance measurements  frequency division multiplexed EIT system  temporal resolution  Electrodes  Tomography  Actuators  Welding  Shape  Robot sensing systems 
Abstract: Soft robotic systems offer benefits over traditional rigid systems through reduced contact trauma with soft tissues and by enabling access through tortuous paths in minimally invasive surgery. However, the inherent deformability of soft robots places both a greater onus on accurate modelling of their shape, and greater challenges in realising intraoperative shape sensing. Herein we present a proprioceptive (self-sensing) soft actuator, with an electrically conductive working fluid. Electrical impedance measurements from up to six electrodes enabled tomographic reconstructions using Electrical Impedance Tomography (EIT). A new Frequency Division Multiplexed (FDM) EIT system was developed capable of measurements of 66 dB SNR with 20 ms temporal resolution. The concept was examined in two two-degree-of-freedom designs: a hydraulic hinged actuator and a pneumatic finger actuator with hydraulic beams. Both cases demonstrated that impedance measurements could be used to infer shape changes, and EIT images reconstructed during actuation showed distinct patterns with respect to each degree of freedom (DOF). Whilst there was some mechanical hysteresis observed, the repeatability of the measurements and resultant images was high. The results show the potential of FDM-EIT as a low-cost, low profile shape sensor in soft robots.

Title: Adaptive Control of Sclera Force and Insertion Depth for Safe Robot-Assisted Retinal Surgery
Key Words: adaptive control  biological tissues  eye  force feedback  force sensors  medical robotics  robot vision  surgery  1-dimensional adaptive control method  3-dimensional control  sclera force components  tool insertion depth  velocity-controlled Johns Hopkins Steady-Hand Eye Robot  safe robot-assisted retinal surgery  surgical tools  force feedback  tool-to-eye interactions  robotic light pipe holding  Robot kinematics  Surgery  Force  Tools  Adaptive control  Retina 
Abstract: One of the significant challenges of moving from manual to robot-assisted retinal surgery is the loss of perception of forces applied to the sclera (sclera forces) by the surgical tools. This damping of force feedback is primarily due to the stiffness and inertia of the robot. The diminished perception of tool-to-eye interactions might put the eye tissue at high risk of injury due to excessive sclera forces or extreme insertion of the tool into the eye. In the present study therefore a 1-dimensional adaptive control method is customized for 3-dimensional control of sclera force components and tool insertion depth and then implemented on the velocity-controlled Johns Hopkins Steady-Hand Eye Robot. The control method enables the robot to perform autonomous motions to make the sclera force and/or insertion depth of the tool tip to follow pre-defined desired and safe trajectories when they exceed safe bounds. A robotic light pipe holding application in retinal surgery is also investigated using the adaptive control method. The implementation results indicate that the adaptive control is able to achieve the imposed safety margins and prevent sclera forces and insertion depth from exceeding safe boundaries.

Title: Distributed Multi-Robot Formation Splitting and Merging in Dynamic Environments
Key Words: collision avoidance  distributed control  graph theory  helicopters  mobile robots  multi-robot systems  distributed consensus  obstacle-free convex regions  distributed multirobot formation splitting  distributed multirobot formation merging  moving obstacles  static obstacles  intersection graph  quadrotors  Robot sensing systems  Collision avoidance  Merging  Navigation  Partitioning algorithms  Heuristic algorithms 
Abstract: This paper presents a distributed method for splitting and merging of multi-robot formations in dynamic environments with static and moving obstacles. Splitting and merging actions rely on distributed consensus and can be performed to avoid obstacles. Our method accounts for the limited communication range and visibility radius of the robots and relies on the communication of obstacle-free convex regions and the computation of an intersection graph. In addition, our method is able to detect and recover from (permanent and temporary) communication and motion faults. Finally, we demonstrate the applicability and scalability of the proposed method in simulations with up to sixteen quadrotors and real-world experiments with a team of four quadrotors.

Title: Eagle Shoal: A new designed modular tactile sensing dexterous hand for domestic service robots
Key Words: control engineering computing  dexterous manipulators  feature extraction  object detection  service robots  tactile sensors  domestic service robots  control boards  tactile sensor unit  hand features  visual data  tactile data  Eagle Shoal  modular tactile sensing dexterous hand  fully-actuated hand  embedded tactile sensors  2 degrees of freedom  DOFs  perceive continuous vibration data  grasp ability  consumer market  robotic manipulation research  Force  Tactile sensors  Piezoelectric transducers  Sensor arrays 
Abstract: This paper introduces a new designed modular tactile sensing dexterous hand for domestic service robots. This fully-actuated hand consists of 1 palm and 3 fingers, with embedded tactile sensors, motors and control boards. The palm and each finger have 2 degrees of freedom (DOFs). The modular design makes it easy to attach and detach the hand, even by inexperienced users. The tactile sensor unit with new structure can help to decrease sensor number and keep a good sensing ability. A series of experiments to test the sensor unit and evaluated the hand performance with an object set was performed in this paper. The results show that the sensor unit can provide precise sensing result and perceive continuous vibration data, and the hand has excellent grasp ability. In addition to its good performance, the hand features a cost of $500 USD with a scale of one hundred sets. This hand is affordable for researchers and for domestic service robots in the consumer market. In future research, this hand will be used to promote the robotic manipulation research based on visual and tactile data.

Title: Learning Scene Geometry for Visual Localization in Challenging Conditions
Key Words: feature extraction  image colour analysis  image retrieval  learning (artificial intelligence)  object detection  robot vision  daytime images  learning scene geometry  visual localization  outdoor large scale image  cross-season  learned global image descriptor  scene geometry information  depth map  query image  localization accuracy  cross-weather  long-term localization scenario  night images  winter localization sequence  summer localization sequence  Training  Decoding  Feature extraction  Robots  Image reconstruction  Geometry  Visualization 
Abstract: We propose a new approach for outdoor large scale image based localization that can deal with challenging scenarios like cross-season, cross-weather, day/night and long-term localization. The key component of our method is a new learned global image descriptor, that can effectively benefit from scene geometry information during training. At test time, our system is capable of inferring the depth map related to the query image and use it to increase localization accuracy. We are able to increase recall@1 performances by 2.15% on cross-weather and long-term localization scenario and by 4.24% points on a challenging winter/summer localization sequence versus state-of-the-art methods. Our method can also use weakly annotated data to localize night images across a reference dataset of daytime images.

Title: Multi-Robot Region-of-Interest Reconstruction with Dec-MCTS
Key Words: manipulators  Monte Carlo methods  multi-robot systems  navigation  path planning  tree searching  motion planning  high-dimensional configuration space  multirobot region-of-interest reconstruction  dec-MCTS  multiple robot arms  RGB-D sensors  precision agriculture  infrastructure inspection  viewpoint evaluation function  nonmyopic planning algorithm  decentralised Monte Carlo tree search  navigation graph  fruit detection  Robot kinematics  Robot sensing systems  Manipulators  Planning  Three-dimensional displays 
Abstract: We consider the problem of reconstructing regions of interest of a scene using multiple robot arms and RGB-D sensors. This problem is motivated by a variety of applications, such as precision agriculture and infrastructure inspection. A viewpoint evaluation function is presented that exploits predicted observations and the geometry of the scene. A recently proposed non-myopic planning algorithm, Decentralised Monte Carlo tree search, is used to coordinate the actions of the robot arms. Motion planning is performed over a navigation graph that considers the high-dimensional configuration space of the robot arms. Extensive simulated experiments are carried out using real sensor data and then validated on hardware with two robot arms. Our proposed targeted information gain planner is compared to state-of-the-art baselines and outperforms them in every measured metric. The robots quickly observe and accurately detect fruit in a trellis structure, demonstrating the viability of the approach for real-world applications.

Title: Design and Control of a Passively Morphing Quadcopter
Key Words: aerospace components  design engineering  helicopters  hinges  nonlinear dynamical systems  position control  propellers  passively morphing quadcopter  passive rotary joints  rapid aerial morphing  sprung hinges  nonmorphing quadcopter  quadcopter controllers  trajectory generation algorithms  control inputs  gap traversal maneuvers  rigid connections  quadcopter design  propellers  nonlinear dynamics  Propellers  Vehicle dynamics  Springs  Force  Fasteners  Dynamics  Actuators 
Abstract: This paper presents a novel quadcopter design that uses passive rotary joints to enable rapid aerial morphing without the use of additional actuators. The normally rigid connections between the arms of the quadcopter and the central body are replaced by sprung hinges that allow for the arms of the quadcopter to fold downward when low thrusts are produced by the propellers, resulting in a reduction of the largest dimension of the vehicle by approximately 50%. The ability of the vehicle to reduce its size during flight allows, e.g., for the traversal of gaps through which a non-morphing quadcopter could not pass. The vehicle is designed such that existing quadcopter controllers and trajectory generation algorithms can be used, provided that some additional constraints on the control inputs are met. The nonlinear dynamics of the system are presented, and design rules are given that minimize transition time between configurations and maximize the available range of control inputs. A method for performing gap traversal maneuvers is proposed and validated experimentally.

Title: Search-based 3D Planning and Trajectory Optimization for Safe Micro Aerial Vehicle Flight Under Sensor Visibility Constraints
Key Words: aerospace safety  collision avoidance  graph theory  navigation  search problems  trajectory optimisation (aerospace)  trajectory optimization  sensor visibility constraints  obstacle-free flight paths  Velodyne Puck Lite 3D laser scanner  flight dynamics  navigation safety  allocentric complete planning  microaerial vehicle flight safety  search-based 3D planning  collision avoidance  graph search  Planning  Robot sensing systems  Three-dimensional displays  Trajectory optimization  Vehicle dynamics 
Abstract: Safe navigation of Micro Aerial Vehicles (MAVs) requires not only obstacle-free flight paths according to a static environment map, but also the perception of and reaction to previously unknown and dynamic objects. This implies that the onboard sensors cover the current flight direction. Due to the limited payload of MAVs, full sensor coverage of the environment has to be traded off with flight time. Thus, often only a part of the environment is covered. We present a combined allocentric complete planning and trajectory optimization approach taking these sensor visibility constraints into account. The optimized trajectories yield flight paths within the apex angle of a Velodyne Puck Lite 3D laser scanner enabling low-level collision avoidance to perceive obstacles in the flight direction. Furthermore, the optimized trajectories take the flight dynamics into account and contain the velocities and accelerations along the path. We evaluate our approach with a DJI Matrice 600 MAV and in simulation employing hardware-in-the-loop.

Title: LineRanger: Analysis and Field Testing of an Innovative Robot for Efficient Assessment of Bundled High-Voltage Powerlines
Key Words: inspection  maintenance engineering  mathematical analysis  power grids  power overhead lines  power transmission control  robots  field testing  innovative robot  bundled high-voltage powerlines  robotic platforms  power grid  Hydro-Québec  line maintenance technicians  passive obstacle-crossing system  large-scale inspection  bundled-type powerlines  mathematical analysis  LineRanger prototype  powerline inspection efficiency  LineScout prototype  Conductors  Wheels  Springs  Mobile robots  Blades  Rotors 
Abstract: Robotic platforms dedicated to powerline inspection are often complex to operate, take several minutes to cross any obstacle, and must be operated by highly trained specialists. To further its goal of massive inspection of its power grid, Hydro-Québec developed an innovative robot that is simple to operate and can be used directly by line maintenance technicians. LineRanger was developed following the field deployment of LineROVer and LineScout but aims at surpassing them in terms of inspection efficiency. With an ingenious and passive obstacle-crossing system, this new robot allows large-scale inspection of bundled-type powerlines, since the obstacle crossing time is considerably reduced. In this paper, details on the robot's key features are presented along with its mathematical analysis, which guarantees its stability on flexible bundles and directly influenced the design. Finally, the LineRanger prototype is presented, with insights about its first field deployments.

Title: Adjustable Power Modulation For A Leg Mechanism Suitable For Running
Key Words: actuators  legged locomotion  torque  kinetic power output  high power mode  low-power modes  adjustable power modulation  mechanical systems  robotic locomotor  actuator system  leg mechanism  terrestrial locomotion  energetic performance  force-torque ratio  flat terrain  finite root generation method  Legged locomotion  DC motors  Springs  Torque  Couplings  Foot 
Abstract: Recent work in the design of mechanical systems for terrestrial locomotion has indicated successful strategies for increasing the energetic performance of a robotic locomotor without upgrading its actuator system. We apply one such strategy, termed power modulation, in a new way: for the design of a leg mechanism useful for running. Power modulation geometrically defines force/torque ratios between robot components to mechanically achieve certain energy transmission characteristics during fast stance dynamics that increase the kinetic power output of the overall system. Furthermore, we investigate the design of a leg mechanism that can adjust to exhibit power modulation. In this way, a leg mechanism would exhibit a low power mode for flat terrain, and can adjust to a high power mode for rough terrain. The latter makes jumping possible and extends the range of available footholds that can be accessed in a single step. To find a suitable leg mechanism, we leverage the Finite Root Generation method to compute a design. The design is advanced to a prototype and basic experiments are conducted to investigate its behavior as adjusted between high-and low-power modes.

Title: Fast and In Sync: Periodic Swarm Patterns for Quadrotors
Key Words: autonomous aerial vehicles  helicopters  mobile robots  motion control  multi-robot systems  path planning  motion delays  drones  periodic swarm patterns  quadrotor swarm performances  integrated unit  coordinated unit  swarm motion primitives  flexible framework  choreography design  trajectory generation algorithms  periodic motion pattern  Drones  Trajectory  Vehicle dynamics  Surface waves  Planning  Aerodynamics 
Abstract: This paper aims to design quadrotor swarm performances, where the swarm acts as an integrated, coordinated unit embodying moving and deforming objects. We divide the task of creating a choreography into three basic steps: designing swarm motion primitives, transitioning between those movements, and synchronizing the motion of the drones. The result is a flexible framework for designing choreographies comprised of a wide variety of motions. The motion primitives can be intuitively designed using a few parameters, providing a rich library for choreography design. Moreover, we combine and adapt existing goal assignment and trajectory generation algorithms to maximize the smoothness of the transitions between motion primitives. Finally, we propose a correction algorithm to compensate for motion delays and synchronize the motion of the drones to a desired periodic motion pattern. The proposed methodology was validated experimentally by generating and executing choreographies on a swarm of 25 quadrotors.

Title: Transfer Learning for Surgical Task Segmentation
Key Words: learning (artificial intelligence)  medical robotics  surgery  transfer learning  surgical task segmentation  segmentation points  manually labeled data  correlated features  segmentation rule  high segmentation rates  Task analysis  Motion segmentation  Trajectory  Feature extraction  Needles  Surgery 
Abstract: In this paper, we present a novel approach for surgical task segmentation. A segmentation policy learns the correlations between features and segmentation points from manually labeled data. The most correlated features and rules for segmenting them are identified and learned. These form a complete set of segmentation policy. The proposed approach is developed to segment new but similar tasks through transfer learning. It is verified through applying the segmentation rule learned from the labeled data to segment other tasks. The performance of the proposed algorithm was evaluated by comparing the results against the ground truths. Experimental results demonstrate that our approach can achieve high segmentation rates with an accuracy of between 68.8% - 81.8%.

Title: Bayesian Optimization of Soft Exosuits Using a Metabolic Estimator Stopping Process
Key Words: Bayes methods  data acquisition  gradient methods  Kalman filters  legged locomotion  optimal control  parameter estimation  Kalman filter-based metabolic estimator  soft exosuits  metabolic estimator stopping process  human-in-the-loop optimization studies  wearable devices  improved average metabolic reduction  slow metabolic dynamics  Bayesian optimization  gradient descent optimization  Optimization  Bayes methods  Time measurement  Noise measurement  Estimation  Standards  Phase measurement 
Abstract: Recent human-in-the-loop (HIL) optimization studies using wearable devices have shown an improved average metabolic reduction by optimizing a small number of control parameters during short-duration walking experiments. However, the slow metabolic dynamics, high measurement noise, and experimental time constraints create challenges for increasing the number of control parameters to be optimized. Prior work applying gradient descent and Bayesian optimization to this problem have decoupled metabolic estimation and control parameter selection using fixed estimation intervals, which imposes a hard limit on the number of parameter evaluations possible in a given time budget. In this work, we take a different approach that couples estimation and parameter selection, allowing the algorithm to spend less time on refining the metabolic estimates for parameters that are unlikely to improve performance over the best observed values. Our approach uses a Kalman filter-based metabolic estimator to formulate an optimal stopping problem during the data acquisition step of standard Bayesian optimization. Performance was analyzed in numerical simulations and in pilot human subject testing with two subjects that involved optimizing six control parameters of a single-joint exosuit and four parameters of a multi-joint exosuit.

Title: Towards Semi-Autonomous and Soft-Robotics Enabled Upper-Limb Exoprosthetics: First Concepts and Robot-Based Emulation Prototype
Key Words: artificial limbs  biomechanics  medical robotics  mobile robots  motion control  orthopaedics  patient rehabilitation  3D visual perception  semiautonomous coordinated motion strategies  app-based programming framework  established standard sequential strategies all joints  human embodied dynamics model  robot-based exoskeleton substitute  soft-robotics design  intelligent coordinated control concepts  upper body  gravity effects  residual limb  unnecessary interaction forces  central goal  prostheses  exoskeletons  robot-based emulation prototype  soft-robotics enabled upper-limb exoprosthetics  strategy goals  Prosthetics  Exoskeletons  Robot kinematics  Prototypes  Task analysis  End effectors 
Abstract: In this paper the first robot-based prototype of a semi-autonomous upper-limb exoprosthesis is introduced, unifying exoskeletons and prostheses [1]. A central goal of this work is to minimize unnecessary interaction forces on the residual limb by compensating gravity effects via a upper body grounded exoskeleton. Furthermore, the exoskeleton provides the residual limb's kinematic data that allows to design more intelligent coordinated control concepts. The soft-robotics design of a prototype consisting of a transhumeral prosthesis and a robot-based exoskeleton substitute is outlined. For this class of hybrid systems a human embodied dynamics model and semi-autonomous coordinated motion strategies are derived. Here, in contrast to established standard sequential strategies all joints are moved simultaneously according to a desired task. In combination with an app-based programming framework the strategy goals are set either user-based via kinesthetic teaching or autonomously via 3D visual perception. This enables the user to execute tasks faster and more intuitive. First experimental evaluations show promising performance with a healthy subject.

Title: A Miniature Suction-Gripper With Passive and Active Microneedle Arrays to Manipulate Peripheral Nerves
Key Words: biological tissues  grippers  injuries  medical robotics  needles  neurophysiology  surgery  neurosurgical robot  nervous tissues  robotic surgical instrument  nerve damages  nerve bundles  flexible peripheral nerves  active microneedle arrays  passive microneedle arrays  miniature suction-gripper  peripheral nerve  suction mechanism  Force  Grippers  Instruments  Wires  Manipulators  Hoses 
Abstract: We develop a miniature suction-gripper with the goal to realize the novel robotic surgical instrument that can grip slippery and flexible peripheral nerves. In developing the instrument, we place a priority on devising the method that can robustly grip the nerve bundles during the surgical operation for the peripheral nerve. Also, we concentrate to investigate the working principle being able to minimize nerve damages that might be caused when manipulating the nerve. In this study, as the most suitable method to achieve the goal, we scheme to utilize the suction mechanism. Because it can non-invasively grip the nerve based on negative pressure, no external force is applied to the nervous tissues. Therefore the peripheral nerve can be manipulated without serious nerve damage (e.g. crush injury and stretch injury). To improve the gripping ability of the proposed suction gripper, two different types of microneedle arrays are applied to the suction-tips: passive-microneedle (PMN) arrays and active-microneedle (AMN) arrays. Since the most outer membrane of the nerve can be anchored by the penetrated PMN and AMN, the gripper can grip the nerve more robustly. The designed suction-gripper is fabricated as a functional prototype, and its working performances are assessed with in-vitro and in-vivo animal experiments. The experimental results well demonstrate the practical effectiveness of the proposed method and its applicability to the neurosurgical robot for the peripheral nerve.

Title: Robust 3D Distributed Formation Control With Collision Avoidance And Application To Multirotor Aerial Vehicles
Key Words: aircraft control  autonomous aerial vehicles  collision avoidance  distributed control  helicopters  mobile robots  position control  position measurement  robust control  distributed control strategy  local relative position measurements  collision avoidance strategy  robust 3D distributed formation control  3D formation  multirotor aerial vehicles  quadrotors  Three-dimensional displays  Collision avoidance  Shape  Vehicle dynamics  Position measurement  Sensors  Topology  Multi-robot systems  distributed robotic systems  3D formation control  distributed collision avoidance 
Abstract: We present a distributed control strategy for a team of agents to autonomously achieve a desired 3D formation. Our approach is based on local relative position measurements and can be applied to multirotor aerial vehicles. We assume that agents have a common sense of direction, which is used to align the z-axes of their local coordinate frames. However, this assumption is not crucial, and our approach is provably robust to misalignments in the local coordinate frames or measurement inaccuracies. In particular, agents can move along any direction that projects positively onto the desired direction of motion. This property is exploited to design a fully-distributed collision avoidance strategy. We validate the proposed approach experimentally and show that a team of quadrotors can achieve a desired 3D formation without collisions.

Title: Networked Operation of a UAV Using Gaussian Process-Based Delay Compensation and Model Predictive Control
Key Words: autonomous aerial vehicles  compensation  control nonlinearities  delays  Gaussian processes  mobile robots  networked control systems  nonlinear control systems  path planning  predictive control  stability  state estimation  state feedback  time-varying systems  Gaussian process-based delay compensation  model predictive control  time-varying network delay  UAV control system  delayed state feedback  multirotor-type UAVs  networked control system  UAV networked operation  path planning  state estimation  Delays  Servers  Uplink  Downlink  Predictive models  Unmanned aerial vehicles  Mathematical model 
Abstract: This study addresses an operation of unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs) in a network environment where there is time-varying network delay. The network delay entails undesirable effects on the stability of the UAV control system due to delayed state feedback and outdated control input. Although several networked control algorithms have been proposed to deal with the network delay, most existing studies have assumed that the plant dynamics is known and simple, or the network delay is constant. These assumptions are improper to multirotor-type UAVs because of their nonlinearity and time-sensitive characteristics. To deal with these problems, we propose a networked control system using model predictive control (MPC) designed under the consideration of multirotor characteristics. We also apply a Gaussian process (GP) to learn an unknown nonlinear model, which increases the accuracy of path planning and state estimation. Flight experiments show that the proposed algorithm successfully compensates the network delay and Gaussian process learning improves the UAV's path tracking performance.

Title: Flappy Hummingbird: An Open Source Dynamic Simulation of Flapping Wing Robots and Animals
Key Words: aerodynamics  aerospace components  aerospace robotics  aircraft control  autonomous aerial vehicles  closed loop systems  control system synthesis  learning (artificial intelligence)  microrobots  mobile robots  motion control  nonlinear control systems  robot dynamics  robot kinematics  stability  vehicle dynamics  flappy hummingbird  open source dynamic simulation  flapping Wing robots  hummingbirds  extraordinary flight performance  stable hovering maneuvering  aggressive maneuvering  conventional small scale man-made vehicles  FWMAVs  performance gap  open source high fidelity dynamic simulation  optimization  flight control  at-scale hummingbird robot  system identification  dynamic response  open-loop  loop systems  simulated flights  experimental flights  highly nonlinear flight dynamics  control problems  control algorithms  linear controller  control policy  simulation-to-real transfer  physical robot  flapping wing microair vehicles  Aerodynamics  Robots  Vehicle dynamics  Force  Torque  Animals 
Abstract: Insects and hummingbirds exhibit extraordinary flight performance and can simultaneously master seemingly conflicting goals: stable hovering and aggressive maneuvering, which are unmatched by conventional small scale man-made vehicles. Flapping Wing Micro Air Vehicles (FWMAVs) hold great promise for closing this performance gap. However, design and control of such systems remain challenging. Here, we present an open source high fidelity dynamic simulation for FWMAVs. The simulator serves as a testbed for the design, optimization and flight control of FWMAVs. To validate the simulation, we recreated the at-scale hummingbird robot developed in our lab in the simulation. System identification was performed to obtain the model parameters. Force generation and dynamic response of open-loop and closed loop systems between simulated and experimental flights were compared. The unsteady aerodynamics and the highly nonlinear flight dynamics present challenging control problems for conventional and learning control algorithms such as Reinforcement Learning. The interface of the simulation is fully compatible with OpenAI Gym environment. As a benchmark study, we present a linear controller for hovering stabilization and a Deep Reinforcement Learning control policy for goal-directed maneuvering. Finally, we demonstrate direct simulation-to-real transfer of both control policies onto the physical robot, further demonstrating the fidelity of the simulation.

Title: Visual Repetition Sampling for Robot Manipulation Planning
Key Words: collision avoidance  Gaussian processes  image sampling  learning (artificial intelligence)  manipulators  mobile robots  robot vision  trees (mathematics)  Gaussian mixture models  rapidly-exploring random tree  biased sampling methods  real-time applications  longer planning times  optimization-based methods  complex environments  sampling-based motion planners  robot manipulation  visual repetition sampling  RRT motion planner  sampling efficiency  visual input  GMM  Planning  Databases  Task analysis  Visualization  Robots  Probability distribution  Feature extraction 
Abstract: One of the main challenges in sampling-based motion planners is to find an efficient sampling strategy. While methods such as Rapidly-exploring Random Tree (RRT) have shown to be more reliable in complex environments than optimization-based methods, they often require longer planning times, which reduces their usability for real-time applications. Recently, biased sampling methods have shown to remedy this issue. For example Gaussian Mixture Models (GMMs) have been used to sample more efficiently in feasible regions of the configuration space. Once the GMM is learned, however, this approach does not adapt its biases to individual planning scene during inference. Hence, we propose in this work a more efficient sampling strategy to further bias the GMM based on visual input upon query. We employ an autoencoder trained entirely in simulation to extract features from depth images and use the latent representation to adjust the weights of each mixture components in the GMM. We show empirically that this improves the sampling efficiency of an RRT motion planner in both real and simulated scenes.

Title: Contact-Driven Posture Behavior for Safe and Interactive Robot Operation
Key Words: collision avoidance  mobile robots  uncertain environments  unexpected contact  safe robot behavior  contact-driven approach  safe robot operation  interactive robot operation  unforeseen contact events  robot tasks  robot model  freedom robot arm  safe contact behavior  robot posture requirements  contact-driven posture behavior  Task analysis  Collision avoidance  Robot sensing systems  Aerospace electronics  Robot kinematics  Jacobian matrices 
Abstract: When performing tasks in uncertain environments and around humans, robots are likely to collide unexpectedly with people or objects. In order to ensure safety, most approaches rely on collision avoidance and try to prevent any contact from happening, which may result in unnecessary interruption of a task that would be feasible in spite of the obstacle. On the one hand, when an unexpected contact occurs, a safe robot behavior is required. On the other hand, it might be interesting to exploit the contact instead of moving away from it. In this paper, we present a contact-driven approach for safe and interactive robot operation to react to unforeseen contact events. This approach offers the possibility to control the contact while minimizing its effects on the robot tasks. It relies exclusively on the robot model and proprioceptive sensors. It is tested in simulation and hardware experiments on a 7 degrees of freedom robot arm and shows a safe contact behavior that does not interfere with the task, and as little as possible with the robot posture requirements.

Title: SuperDepth: Self-Supervised, Super-Resolved Monocular Depth Estimation
Key Words: convolutional neural nets  image classification  image motion analysis  image resolution  image sampling  learning (artificial intelligence)  pose estimation  self-supervised monocular depth estimation  self-supervised monocular depth prediction  subpixel convolutional layer extension  depth super-resolution  high-resolution disparities  low-resolution convolutional features  flip-augmentation layer  single-image super-resolution  deep learning methods  super-resolved monocular depth estimation  public KITTI benchmark  pose estimation  Estimation  Convolutional codes  Cameras  Spatial resolution  Three-dimensional displays  Training 
Abstract: Recent techniques in self-supervised monocular depth estimation are approaching the performance of supervised methods, but operate in low resolution only. We show that high resolution is key towards high-fidelity self-supervised monocular depth prediction. Inspired by recent deep learning methods for Single-Image Super-Resolution, we propose a subpixel convolutional layer extension for depth super-resolution that accurately synthesizes high-resolution disparities from their corresponding low-resolution convolutional features. In addition, we introduce a differentiable flip-augmentation layer that accurately fuses predictions from the image and its horizontally flipped version, reducing the effect of left and right shadow regions generated in the disparity map due to occlusions. Both contributions provide significant performance gains over the state-of-the-art in self-supervised depth and pose estimation on the public KITTI benchmark. A video of our approach can be found at https://youtu.be/jKNgBeBMx0I.

Title: The Mechanics and Control of Leaning to Lift Heavy Objects with a Dynamically Stable Mobile Robot
Key Words: feedback  manipulators  mobile robots  motion control  robot dynamics  wheels  two-wheeled dynamically stable mobile manipulator robots  heavy object  ballbot  feedback control laws  dynamically stable mobile robot  spherical-wheel robots  unknown mass  quasistatic center of mass computation  feedforward control laws  mass 15.0 kg  mass 10.0 kg  Mobile robots  Task analysis  Payloads  Humanoid robots  Manipulators  Navigation 
Abstract: A control algorithm is developed to enable dynamically stable spherical-wheel robots (ballbots) with arms to detect a heavy object of unknown mass, navigate to it, lift it, transport it, and place it in a desired location semi-autonomously. Previous work has successfully demonstrated two-wheeled dynamically stable mobile manipulator robots transporting heavy objects. We report here the first ballbot to reliably achieve such a task. A successful semi-autonomous lift and transport of a 15 kg heavy box whose actual mass was unknown was achieved using a combination of feedforward and feedback control laws based on a quasi-static center of mass computation. The ballbot's pan and tilt sensor turret tracked fiducial markers on the box. Ballbot-to-human and human-to-ballbot exchanges of a 10 kg heavy object was achieved while dynamically balancing.

Title: Improving Underwater Obstacle Detection using Semantic Image Segmentation
Key Words: feature extraction  image classification  image enhancement  image matching  image segmentation  learning (artificial intelligence)  mobile robots  path planning  robot vision  stereo image processing  image-based underwater obstacle detection  sparse stereo point clouds  monocular semantic image segmentation  cluttered underwater environments  robust robotic path planning  feature-based stereo matching  learning-based segmentation  robust obstacle map  direct binary learning  underwater obstacles  multiclass learning approach  binary map  sparse stereo matching  3D obstacle maps  coral reef environments  image-wide obstacle detection  dynamic objects  image-based obstacle maps  Image segmentation  Semantics  Cameras  Three-dimensional displays  Real-time systems  Training  Robots 
Abstract: This paper presents two novel approaches for improving image-based underwater obstacle detection by combining sparse stereo point clouds with monocular semantic image segmentation. Generating accurate image-based obstacle maps in cluttered underwater environments, such as coral reefs, are essential for robust robotic path planning and navigation. However, these maps can be challenged by factors including visibility, lighting and dynamic objects (e.g. fish) that may lead to falsely identified free space or dynamic objects which trajectory planners may react to undesirably. We propose combining feature-based stereo matching with learning-based segmentation to produce a more robust obstacle map. This approach considers direct binary learning of the presence or absence of underwater obstacles, as well as a multiclass learning approach to classify their distance (near, mid and far) in the scene. An enhancement to the binary map is also shown by including depth information from sparse stereo matching to produce 3D obstacle maps of the scene. The performance is evaluated using field data collected in cluttered, and at times, visually degraded coral reef environments. The results show improved image-wide obstacle detection, rejection of transient objects (such as fish), and range estimation compared to feature-based sparse and dense stereo point clouds alone.

Title: RCM-SLAM: Visual localisation and mapping under remote centre of motion constraints
Key Words: cameras  image motion analysis  image reconstruction  medical robotics  mobile robots  pose estimation  robot vision  SLAM (robots)  surgery  laparoscopic camera motion  RCM constraints  minimal solver  absolute camera  2D-3D point correspondences  bundle adjustment optimiser  RCM-constrained parameterisation  relative pose estimation  SLAM pipeline suitable  robotic surgery  RCM position  robotic prostatectomy show  RCM-SLAM  visual localisation  remote centre  motion constraints  insertion ports  Simultaneous Localisation and Mapping  mapping approach  RCM-PnP  Cameras  Robot vision systems  Simultaneous localization and mapping  Laparoscopes  Three-dimensional displays  Robot kinematics 
Abstract: In robotic surgery the motion of instruments and the laparoscopic camera is constrained by their insertion ports, i. e. a remote centre of motion (RCM). We propose a Simultaneous Localisation and Mapping (SLAM) approach that estimates laparoscopic camera motion under RCM constraints. To achieve this we derive a minimal solver for the absolute camera pose given two 2D-3D point correspondences (RCM-PnP) and also a bundle adjustment optimiser that refines camera poses within an RCM-constrained parameterisation. These two methods are used together with previous work on relative pose estimation under RCM [1] to assemble a SLAM pipeline suitable for robotic surgery. Our simulations show that RCM-PnP outperforms conventional PnP for a wide noise range in the RCM position. Results with video footage from a robotic prostatectomy show that RCM constraints significantly improve camera pose estimation.

Title: Comparing Physical and Simulated Performance of a Deterministic and a Bio-inspired Stochastic Foraging Strategy for Robot Swarms
Key Words: deterministic algorithms  multi-robot systems  stochastic processes  robot swarms  collective robot foraging  central-place foraging algorithm  CPFA  distributed deterministic spiral algorithm  DDSA  swarm robotic algorithms  bioinspired stochastic foraging strategy  resource-collection algorithms  Robot sensing systems  Collision avoidance  Spirals  Swarm robotics  Task analysis  Cameras 
Abstract: Designing resource-collection algorithms for relatively simple robots that are effective given the noise and uncertainty of the real world is a challenge in swarm robotics. This paper describes the performance of two algorithms for collective robot foraging: the stochastic central-place foraging algorithm (CPFA) and the distributed deterministic spiral algorithm (DDSA). With the CPFA, robots mimic the foraging behaviors of ants; they stochastically search for targets and share information to recruit other robots to locations where they detect multiple targets. With the DDSA, robots travel along pre-planned spiral paths; robots detect the nearest targets first and, in theory, guarantee eventual complete coverage of the arena with minimal overlap. We implemented both algorithms and compared their performance in a Gazebo simulation and in physical robots in a large outdoor arena. In a realistic Gazebo simulation, the DDSA outperforms the CPFA. However, in real-world experiments with obstacles, collisions, and errors, the movement patterns of robots implementing the DDSA become visually indistinguishable from the CPFA. The CPFA is less affected by noise and error, and it performs as well as, or better than, the DDSA. Physical experiments change our conclusion about which algorithm has the best performance, emphasizing the importance of systematically comparing the performance of swarm robotic algorithms in the real world.

Title: WheeLeR: Wheel-Leg Reconfigurable Mechanism with Passive Gears for Mobile Robot Applications
Key Words: gears  legged locomotion  robot kinematics  wheels  mobile robotic platform  gear ratio  wheel-leg reconfigurable mechanism  passive gears  mobile robot applications  passive wheel-leg transformation mechanism  central gear  seamless circular wheel  leg mode  geared structure  obstacle climbing  locomotion capabilities  Legged locomotion  Wheels  Gears  Torque  Force 
Abstract: This paper presents a new passive wheel-leg transformation mechanism and its embodiment in a small mobile robot. The mechanism is based on a unique geared structure, allowing the wheel to transform between two modes, i.e., wheel or leg, potentially adapting to varying ground conditions. It consists of a central gear and legs with partial gears that rotate around the central gear to open or close the legs. When fully closed, the mechanism forms a seamless circular wheel; when opened, it operates in the leg mode. The central gear actuated by the driving motor generates opening and closing motions of the legs without using an additional actuator. The number of legs, their physical size, and the gear ratio between the central gear and the partial gears on the legs are adjustable. This design is mechanically simple, customizable, and easy to fabricate. For physical demonstration and experiments, a mobile robotic platform was built and its terrainability was tested using five different sets of the transformable wheels with varying sizes and gear ratios. For each design, the performance with successful wheel-leg transformation, obstacle climbing, and locomotion capabilities was tested in different ground conditions.

Title: Long-Term Occupancy Grid Prediction Using Recurrent Neural Networks
Key Words: convolutional neural nets  learning (artificial intelligence)  Monte Carlo methods  neural net architecture  optical radar  recurrent neural nets  long-term occupancy grid prediction  recurrent neural networks  scene evolution  automated driving  Lidar grid fusion  birds eye view  RNNs  CNN architecture  convolutional long short-term memories  ConvLSTMs  Monte Carlo approach  Vehicle dynamics  Training  Predictive models  Task analysis  Computer architecture  Recurrent neural networks  Correlation 
Abstract: We tackle the long-term prediction of scene evolution in a complex downtown scenario for automated driving based on Lidar grid fusion and recurrent neural networks (RNNs). A bird's eye view of the scene, including occupancy and velocity, is fed as a sequence to a RNN which is trained to predict future occupancy. The nature of prediction allows generation of multiple hours of training data without the need of manual labeling. Thus, the training strategy and loss function are designed for long sequences of real-world data (unbalanced, continuously changing situations, false labels, etc.). The deep CNN architecture comprises convolutional long short-term memories (ConvLSTMs) to separate static from dynamic regions and to predict dynamic objects in future frames. Novel recurrent skip connections show the ability to predict small occluded objects, i.e. pedestrians, and occluded static regions. Spatio-temporal correlations between grid cells are exploited to predict multimodal future paths and interactions between objects. Experiments also quantity improvements to our previous network, a Monte Carlo approach, and literature.

Title: Guaranteed Globally Optimal Planar Pose Graph and Landmark SLAM via Sparse-Bounded Sums-of-Squares Programming
Key Words: graph theory  maximum likelihood estimation  mobile robots  navigation  nonlinear programming  path planning  polynomials  pose estimation  robot vision  SLAM (robots)  autonomous navigation  nonlinear optimization techniques  maximum likelihood estimate  robot trajectory  polynomial optimization programs  planar pose graph  landmark SLAM  sparse-bounded sums-of-squares programming  simultaneous localization and mapping  pose-graph SLAM problem  sum-of-squares convex  SOS convex  sparse bounded degree sum-of-squares optimization method  sparse-BSOS optimization method  Simultaneous localization and mapping  Optimization  Maximum likelihood estimation  Position measurement  Noise measurement  Transmission line matrix methods 
Abstract: Autonomous navigation requires an accurate model or map of the environment. While dramatic progress in the prior two decades has enabled large-scale simultaneous localization and mapping (SLAM), the majority of existing methods rely on non-linear optimization techniques to find the maximum likelihood estimate (MLE) of the robot trajectory and surrounding environment. These methods are prone to local minima and are thus sensitive to initialization. Several recent papers have developed optimization algorithms for the Pose-Graph SLAM problem that can certify the optimality of a computed solution. Though this does not guarantee a priori that this approach generates an optimal solution, a recent extension has shown that when the noise lies within a critical threshold that the solution to the optimization algorithm is guaranteed to be optimal. To address the limitations of existing approaches, this paper illustrates that the Pose-Graph SLAM and Landmark SLAM can be formulated as polynomial optimization programs that are sum-of-squares (SOS) convex. This paper then describes how the Pose-Graph and Landmark SLAM problems can be solved to a global minimum without initialization regardless of noise level using the sparse bounded degree sum-of-squares (Sparse-BSOS) optimization method. Finally, the superior performance of the proposed approach when compared to existing SLAM methods is illustrated on graphs with several hundred nodes.

Title: Trust Regions for Safe Sampling-Based Model Predictive Control
Key Words: nonlinear dynamical systems  predictive control  robust control  sampling methods  stochastic systems  trust regions  safe sampling-based model predictive control  nonlinear control systems  complex dynamics  nonlinear dynamics  sampling-based MPC scheme  sampling based estimation  safe constraint satisfaction  probabilistic information  Monte Carlo methods  Trajectory  Predictive control  Optimization  Safety  Optimal control 
Abstract: Guaranteeing safe constraint satisfaction in nonlinear control systems with uncertainty remains a major challenge for control. The most successful control method handling constraints under uncertainty has without doubt been model predictive control (MPC). In particular, recent sampling-based MPC methods have shown success in controlling stochastic systems with complex, nonlinear dynamics. The sampling-based schemes are appealing since they do not need strong assumptions on the underlying model, except that it can be forward simulated. At the same time, the lack of major assumptions on the models make the statement of safety or robustness guarantees difficult. However, the samples drawn during the control process inherently contain probabilistic information about these properties. In this paper, we formally describe the problem that results by adding chance constraints to a sampling-based MPC scheme. Furthermore, based on a variant of the Chernoff bound, we derive trust regions, in which the sampling based estimation of the safety constraint satisfies a specified quality. Finally, we present a case study in the navigation domain to demonstrate the applicability of the proposed approach.

Title: Removing Leaking Corners to Reduce Dimensionality in Hamilton-Jacobi Reachability
Key Words: collision avoidance  game theory  mobile robots  nonlinear dynamical systems  optimal control  reachability analysis  safety  dimensionality reduction  HJ computation  Hamilton-Jacobi reachability  robotic systems  nonlinear system dynamics  safety-preserving controllers  computational scalability  continuous state dimensions  computational burden  system decomposition methods  coupled HJ formulation  leaking corners removal  safety verification  computational scalability limits  vehicle obstacle avoidance problem  5D car model  Safety  Dimensionality reduction  Optimal control  Level set  Collision avoidance  Trajectory 
Abstract: Hamilton-Jacobi (HJ) reachability provides a flexible framework for the verification of safety in robotic systems: it accounts for nonlinear system dynamics and provides safety-preserving controllers. However, computational scalability limits its direct application to systems of less than five continuous state dimensions. To alleviate this computational burden, system decomposition methods have been proposed; however, safety guarantees are lost in situations involving “leaking corners which arise when there are conflicting controls between subsystems. In this paper, a coupled HJ formulation is presented, which addresses leaking corners and guarantees safety, while incorporating dimensionality reduction. We demonstrate our method in two examples, one of which is a vehicle obstacle avoidance problem with a 5D car model, whose HJ computation was previously considered to be intractable.

Title: Control from the Cloud: Edge Computing, Services and Digital Shadow for Automation Technologies*
Key Words: agile manufacturing  cloud computing  embedded systems  product development  production engineering computing  edge computing  digital shadow  agile product development  production systems  automation pyramid  interconnected cyber physical systems  adaptive process control  life cycle data management  Cloud computing  Automation  Computer architecture  Edge computing  Production  Process control  Manufacturing 
Abstract: Due to agile product development, production systems have to be flexible and adaptable to meet high quality standards and a high productivity. As a result, set-up processes has to be shorter and more resilient because of the increasing number of variants. To meet future requirements, the processes need to be self-adaptive and reconfigurable at any time. Nowadays, a shift of the automation pyramid to interconnected cyber physical systems can be observed as well as emerging technologies as cloud and edge computing are introduced to production systems. These technologies in combination with the Digital Shadow, which provides information about all production assets, open up potential for an adaptive process control and an overall life cycle data management. For this, the Digital Shadow has to be used not only for the aggregation of data, but also for pushing data back into the system and to control the process. As a result, services in regard to an architecture based on edge computing as an enabling technology for an adaptive production together with the Digital Shadow are presented, implemented and discussed on the basis of an industrial use case.

Title: Improving the Performance of Auxiliary Null Space Tasks via Time Scaling-Based Relaxation of the Primary Task
Key Words: path planning  position control  redundant manipulators  auxiliary null space tasks  task achievement  null space task  multiple prioritized tasks  time scaling-based relaxation  primary task  kinematic redundancy  robot manipulators  safety criterion  optimization criterion  constraint relaxation  time scaling schemes  DLR lightweight robot  KUKA lightweight robot  Task analysis  Null space  Robot kinematics  Trajectory  Jacobian matrices  Optimization 
Abstract: Kinematic redundancy enhances the dexterity and flexibility of robot manipulators. By exploiting the redundant degrees of freedom, auxiliary null space tasks can be carried out in addition to the primary task. Such auxiliary tasks are often formulated in terms of a performance or safety criterion that shall be minimized. If the optimization criterion, however, is defined in global terms, then it is directly affected by the primary task. As a consequence, the task achievement of the auxiliary task may be unnecessarily detrimented by the main task. In addition to modifying the primary task via constraint relaxation, a possible solution for improving the performance of the auxiliary task is to relax the primary task temporarily via time scaling. This gives the null space task more time for achieving its objective. In this paper, we propose several such time scaling schemes and verify their performance for a DLR/KUKA Lightweight Robot with one redundant degree of freedom. Finally, we extend the concept to multiple prioritized tasks and provide a simulation example.

Title: Shape Memory Structures-Automated Design of Monolithic Soft Robot Structures with Pre-defined End Poses
Key Words: actuators  intelligent robots  manipulators  rapid prototyping (industrial)  shape memory effects  three-dimensional printing  soft robotic systems  automated design process  monolithic soft robotic structures  pre-defined end poses  shape memory structures-automated design  monolithic soft robot structures  additive manufacturing methods  3D-printable  actuators  Fasteners  Soft robotics  Three-dimensional printing  Task analysis  Shape  Buildings 
Abstract: The particularly compliant and adaptable properties of soft robotic systems and structures offer enormous potential for use in unpredictable environments as well as for safe and interactive work in human environments. Therefore, new approaches for the design of soft robotic systems are constantly being introduced in this still emerging field of research. Through the use of additive manufacturing methods, it is possible to design systems specifically for an individual task. In this paper we present an approach for an automated design process for monolithic soft robotic structures that can assume pre-defined end poses. The idea thereby is to design simple individualizable systems that are 3D-printable and require a minimum number of actuators. Using the automated design process, we could already generate soft robotic systems for different applications which show promising properties.

Title: A Novel Rotating Beam Link for Variable Stiffness Robotic Arms
Key Words: actuators  beams (structures)  buckling  design engineering  elastic constants  industrial robots  servomotors  safety benefits  compact design  rotating beams  lateral stiffness ratio  parallel guided beams  beam roots  mechanics model  design concept  rotating beam link  variable stiffness robotic arms  servomotors  column buckling  Collision avoidance  Structural beams  Prototypes  Servomotors  Robot sensing systems  Mathematical model 
Abstract: In this paper, we present a novel design concept for a robot arm link with variable stiffness. Variable stiffness links are intended to grant a robot the safety benefits of compliance and the performance benefits of stiffness. Our compact design actively modulates stiffness via parallel, rotating beams actuated by simple servomotors. It achieves a lateral stiffness ratio greater than ten with a minimum stiffness under 0.2 N/mm. Our novel design offers many benefits over existing variable stiffness link solutions in its compactness, simplicity, and speed of actuation. One challenge of this research lies in the mechanics modeling of variable stiffness. Here we propose a comprehensive mechanics model that considers mechanical compliances due to deflections of parallel guided beams, column buckling, and bearing at the beam roots. By comparing with experimental testing data, we show that our analytical model accurately predicts the lateral stiffness of the robotic link. This model can be used as a design tool in future iterations, including for scaling the design.

Title: Mechanical Fourier Transform using an Array of Additively Manufactured Soft Whisker-like Sensors
Key Words: damping  Fourier transforms  oscillators  polymers  rapid prototyping (industrial)  sensor arrays  three-dimensional printing  mixed-frequency signals  mechanical Fourier transform  damped oscillator system  additively manufactured soft whisker-like sensor array  single-step additive manufacturing approach  bioinspired soft whisker-like sensors  polymer based whisker-array  Sensor arrays  Resonant frequency  Fabrication  Robot sensing systems  Shafts  Power capacitors 
Abstract: In this study, a single-step additive manufacturing approach to fabricate an array of bio-inspired soft whisker-like sensors is presented. Each whisker is a damped oscillator system that is tuned to a different resonant frequency whose response is characterized through experimentation in an air medium. A 3 × 1 polymer based whisker-array is used to distinguish individual frequency components in mixed-frequency signals, achieving a form of “mechanical Fourier transform”.

Title: Multi-Task Sensorization of Soft Actuators Using Prior Knowledge
Key Words: deformation  dexterous manipulators  elastic constants  pneumatic actuators  sensors  sensorized actuators  soft actuators  multitask sensorization  sensor hardware  multitask method  RBO Hand 2  PneuFlex actuator  sensor placement  soft actuator  task-relevant deformations  soft robotic actuators  Task analysis  Actuators  Strain  Robot sensing systems  Layout  Capacitive sensors 
Abstract: The space of all possible deformations of soft robotic actuators is extremely large. It is impossible to explicitly measure each internal degree of freedom, regardless of the number and types of sensors. It is, however, possible to measure a smaller subset of task-relevant deformations using only a few well-placed sensors. But for a different task, the soft actuator's deformation behavior might differ significantly. Instead of finding a new sensor placement for the new task, which would result in a separate hand for every task, we propose a method that maintains the original sensors and uses prior knowledge about each task to extend the applicability of the existing sensorized actuators to new tasks. We demonstrate our approach by the example of a PneuFlex actuator of the RBO Hand 2. When sensorizing the actuator for a single task, the sensor model does not transfer well to other tasks. Using our multi-task method, we train new sensor models that use prior knowledge about the tasks. The new models improve measurement accuracy for the new tasks without having to change the sensor hardware.

Title: Self-Modifying Morphology Experiments with DyRET: Dynamic Robot for Embodied Testing
Key Words: adaptive systems  legged locomotion  robot dynamics  self-reconfiguration  quadruped robots  DyRET  embodied testing  dynamic robot morphology  locomotion modes  self-reconfigurable morphology  servo supply voltage  four-legged robot  self-modifying morphology experiments  uncontrolled outdoor environments  Legged locomotion  Morphology  Servomotors  Computer architecture  Robot sensing systems  Switches 
Abstract: If robots are to become ubiquitous, they will need to be able to adapt to complex and dynamic environments. Robots that can adapt their bodies while deployed might be flexible and robust enough to meet this challenge. Previous work on dynamic robot morphology has focused on simulation, combining simple modules, or switching between locomotion modes. Here, we present an alternative approach: a self-reconfigurable morphology that allows a single four-legged robot to actively adapt the length of its legs to different environments. We report the design of our robot, as well as the results of a study that verifies the performance impact of self-reconfiguration. This study compares three different control and morphology pairs under different levels of servo supply voltage in the lab. We also performed preliminary tests in different uncontrolled outdoor environments to see if changes to the external environment supports our findings in the lab. Our results show better performance with an adaptable body, lending evidence to the value of self-reconfiguration for quadruped robots.

Title: Experimental Validation of High-Efficiency Hydraulic Direct-Drive System for a Biped Humanoid Robot—Comparison with Valve-Based Control System
Key Words: humanoid robots  hydraulic systems  legged locomotion  position control  robot dynamics  valves  high-efficiency hydraulic direct-drive system  biped humanoid robot-comparison  high-power large electrical motors  mechanical transmission systems  valve-based control system  position-following capability  energy consumption  Valves  Legged locomotion  Humanoid robots  Actuators  Velocity control 
Abstract: Biped robots require substantial amounts of power alternately on each leg while walking, hopping, and running. However, it is difficult to mount high-power large electrical motors in conventional mechanical transmission systems owing to spatial limitations. A hydraulic direct-drive system is proposed in which the size of the motor in each leg can be reduced by sharing the motor outputs between the legs. In this paper, the hydraulic direct-drive system is evaluated in an actual hydraulic system. Velocity followability, excellent energy saving, and virtually perfect position tracking are achieved with the proposed system. The results of performance comparison with a valve-based control system show that energy consumption is controlled and good position-following capability is achieved using the proposed system.

Title: Experimental Demonstration of High-Performance Robotic Balancing
Key Words: mobile robots  motion control  nonlinear control systems  pendulums  wheels  balance control  fast movements  narrow support  reaction wheel pendulum  motion commands  high-performance robotic balancing  Mobile robots  Robot kinematics  Wheels  Robot sensing systems  Poles and zeros  Acceleration 
Abstract: This paper presents the first practical demonstration of a recently developed theory of balance control that aims to achieve high performance in the sense of allowing a robot to make large, fast movements while maintaining its balance on a narrow support. This theory includes a simple method of leaning in anticipation of future motion commands, which is largely responsible for the high performance. The experiments reported here use a robot acting as a reaction wheel pendulum, and they test only the 2-D version of the theory. The results show that the balance controller's performance in practice closely resembles its theoretical performance. This paper also presents a simple yet accurate balance offset observer that measures the difference between true and estimated balanced configurations.

Title: OpenRoACH: A Durable Open-Source Hexapedal Platform with Onboard Robot Operating System (ROS)
Key Words: accelerometers  cameras  control engineering computing  gyroscopes  legged locomotion  operating systems (computers)  durable open-source hexapedal platform  hexapedal robot  onboard single-board computer  laser cutter  Beacon sensors  color vision sensors  linescan sensors  cameras  legged robot  continuous walking burn-ins  static payload  dynamic payload  robot operating system  Legged locomotion  DC motors  Sensors  Clamps  Laser beam cutting  Shafts 
Abstract: OpenRoACH is a 15-cm 200-gram self-contained hexapedal robot with an onboard single-board computer. To our knowledge, it is the smallest legged robot with the capability of running the Robot Operating System (ROS) onboard. The robot is fully open sourced, uses accessible materials and off-the-shelf electronic components, can be fabricated with benchtop fast-prototyping machines such as a laser cutter and a 3D printer, and can be assembled by one person within two hours. Its sensory capacity has been tested with gyroscopes, accelerometers, Beacon sensors, color vision sensors, linescan sensors and cameras. It is low-cost within $150 including structure materials, motors, electronics, and a battery. The capabilities of OpenRoACH are demonstrated with multi-surface walking and running, 24-hour continuous walking burn-ins, carrying 200-gram dynamic payloads and 800-gram static payloads, and ROS control of steering based on camera feedback. Information and files related to mechanical design, fabrication, assembly, electronics, and control algorithms are all publicly available on https://wiki.eecs.berkeley.edu/biomimetics/Main/OpenRoACH.

Title: Sensorless Force Control of Automated Grinding/Deburring Using an Adjustable force regulation mechanism
Key Words: deburring  end effectors  feedback  force control  force sensors  geometry  grinding  grinding machines  industrial robots  machine tool spindles  polishing  position control  prototypes  quality control  sensorless force control  controller feedback  constant contact force  force regulation mechanism  grinding spindle tool  industrial grinding-deburring operations  multiaxis force sensor  polishing quality  geometry  grinder prototype  compliant mechanism  end-effector  industrial robots  Frequency modulation  Force  Conferences  Automation  Indexes  Deburring  Force control  Automated deburring and polishing  force control  constant force  zero stiffness  compliant mechanism 
Abstract: Controlling the contact force on workpieces has been a challenging task for industrial grinding/deburring operations. Its realization often requires a grinding spindle with a multi-axis force sensor and controller feedback. The spindle needs to frequently vary its position in order to maintain a constant contact force. The use of sensors and control is costly and introduces extra complexity for grinding tools. To improve the polishing quality of handling workpieces of irregular contours, this paper presents a novel force regulation mechanism (FRM) to be installed on grinding tools. Without using additional sensors and control, the FRM can passively produce an adjusTable NORMAL Contact force between the tooltip and workpiece of various geometry. the spindle does not have to move to regulate the contact force. together with a simple grinder which is much less expensive, this approach offers a more attractive solution in terms of cost and complexity. in this paper, the design concept and simulation results are presented and discussed. a prototype of a grinder with the proposed FRM is illustrated to demonstrate the effectiveness and accuracy of force regulation. this novel mechanism is expected to serve as a reliable alternative for industrial grinding/deburring operation.

Title: Constrained Feedback Control by Prioritized Multi-objective Optimization
Key Words: closed loop systems  feedback  legged locomotion  motion control  optimisation  position control  control inputs  operational space inverse dynamics control  constrained prioritized multiobjective optimization-base control formulation  dynamic-model-free prioritized feedback control formulation  combined inverse dynamics impedance controller  planar anthropometric biped robot  stable locomotion  Task analysis  Dynamics  Impedance  Optimization  Feedback control  Robot kinematics 
Abstract: Prioritized multi-objective optimization has been widely used within the operational space inverse dynamics control framework. In this paper, we present a constrained prioritized multi-objective optimization-base control formulation that extends to impedance control, including the `simple' impedance controller, which does not require the dynamic model. The main contribution of this paper is the dynamic-model-free prioritized feedback control formulation which encompasses arbitrary number of priority levels and takes the saturation constraints on the control inputs rigorously into account. The utility of the proposed formulation is demonstrated by a combined inverse dynamics impedance controller used to simulate stable locomotion of a planar anthropometric biped robot.

Title: Exploitation of Environment Support Contacts for Manipulation Effort Reduction of a Robot Arm
Key Words: compliance control  control system synthesis  end effectors  force control  humanoid robots  manipulator dynamics  manipulator kinematics  mobile robots  motion control  optimal contact force control  support plane  contact control point  three-level hierarchical compliance controller  nonend-effector support contact  wrist level manipulation  upper arm  elbow joint  arm joints  loco-manipulation tasks  environment constraints  robot arm  manipulation effort reduction  environment support contacts  control scheme  interaction forces  impedance control  Task analysis  Robot kinematics  Manipulators  Optimization  Planning  Jacobian matrices 
Abstract: Humans commonly exploit interaction with the environment constraints to assist the execution of the loco-manipulation tasks they perform. One particular example is the exploration of contacts during manipulation to relax the loading of those arm joints that are not directly involved in the generation of the manipulation motions and forces, e.g. establishing a contact with the elbow joint to reduce the effort of the upper arm while executing wrist level manipulation. In this paper, we shall explore the possibility of actively (a) utilizing the environment for a non-end-effector support contact towards reducing the joints efforts during manipulation tasks. This is achieved by our proposed control scheme with a three-level hierarchical compliance controller. The highest priority task is assigned to an impedance control that regulates the interaction at the contact control point on the arm in the normal direction of the support plane prior to contact, and is switched to an optimal contact force control for minimizing the joint effort after the contact is built. The second priority task is an impedance control at the same point in the tangential directions of the plane to stabilize the contact. In the end, an impedance behavior at the end-effector is designed to deal with the interaction forces required by the manipulation tasks. The efficacy of the proposed control scheme was corroborated by simulations and experiments, where significant joint effort reduction was observed.

Title: A Coordinate-based Approach for Static Balancing and Walking Control of Compliantly Actuated Legged Robots
Key Words: actuators  elasticity  gait analysis  legged locomotion  motion control  position control  coordinate-based approach  static balancing  elastically actuated legged robots  motor positions  bijective relation  link positions  static external forces  fully determined system  vertical foot positions  walking task  imposed constraints  COM  compliantly actuated legged robots  Legged locomotion  Task analysis  Robot kinematics  Actuators  Elasticity  Force 
Abstract: The paper addresses the static balancing and walking of elastically actuated legged robots. The control is realized by commanding the motor positions only and exploiting the bijective relation between motor and link positions at equilibrium under static external forces. The approach is formulated in a quite general framework first. The main implementation contribution is the definition of a body coordinate system and of an appropriate set of constraints, which leads to a fully determined system of equations. In addition to the desired COM and the vertical foot positions, which are defined by the walking task and the terrain, the imposed constraints are related to distances between individual legs. The controller is experimentally validated on a compliantly actuated quadruped.

Title: Joint kinematic configuration influence on the passivity of an impedance-controlled robotic leg
Key Words: actuators  force control  legged locomotion  position control  robot kinematics  stability  joint kinematic configuration influence  impedance-controlled robotic leg  legged robots  impedance controller  inner force loop gains  passivity conditions  joint configurations  leg workspace  actuation bandwidth  passive impedance  Z-width diagram  Nyquist plot  Legged locomotion  Impedance  Jacobian matrices  Stability analysis  Damping  Torque 
Abstract: Although the design of legged robots may be dependent on the application, all of them share the need to safely deal with physical interaction with the environment in every step they take. Impedance controllers have been applied with success to handle contact, and some authors applied the concept of passivity to guarantee stability during the interaction. Whereas previous studies on the passivity of legged robots considered aspects such as inner force loop gains and actuation bandwidth influence on the Z-width (i.e. the range of renderable passive impedances), they did not take into account the role of the kinematic configuration of the leg on the stability of the interaction. Thus, in this work we present a systematic analysis of the effects of joint positions on the passivity conditions of a robotic leg and show that this is a very relevant aspect that may seriously affect the stability and passivity of an impedance controller. By analyzing a linearized model of the leg via its Nyquist plots and the respective Z-width diagrams, we were able to determine what joint configurations within the leg workspace are more suitable to physically interact with the environment or people.

Title: Towards Robot Interaction Autonomy: Explore, Identify, and Interact
Key Words: adaptive control  agricultural robots  damping  human-robot interaction  mobile robots  robot dynamics  self-adjusting systems  context-aware  adaptive interaction  self-tuning impedance controller  robot quasistatic parameters  robot sensory data  vision module  robot interaction autonomy  robot sensory vision  autonomous robot behaviours  stiffness  damping  agricultural task  Impedance  Robot sensing systems  Robot kinematics  Task analysis  Damping  Service robots 
Abstract: Nowadays, robots are expected to enter in various application scenarios and interact with unknown and dynamically changing environments. This highlights the need for creating autonomous robot behaviours to explore such environments, identify their characteristics and adapt, and build knowledge for future interactions. To respond to this need, in this paper we present a novel framework that integrates multiple components to achieve a context-aware and adaptive interaction between the robot and uncertain environments. The core of this framework is a novel self-tuning impedance controller that regulates robot quasi-static parameters, i.e., stiffness and damping, based on the robot sensory data and vision. The tuning of the parameters is achieved only in the direction(s) of interaction or movement, by distinguishing expected interactions from external disturbances. A vision module is developed to recognize the environmental characteristics and to associate them to the previously/newly identified interaction parameters, with the robot always being able to adapt to the new changes or unexpected situations. This enables a faster robot adaptability, starting from better initial interaction parameters. The framework is evaluated experimentally in an agricultural task, where the robot effectively interacts with various deformable environments.

Title: Personalized Online Learning of Whole-Body Motion Classes using Multiple Inertial Measurement Units
Key Words: body sensor networks  feature extraction  image classification  image motion analysis  learning (artificial intelligence)  pose estimation  personalized online learning  whole-body motion classes  online action classification  machine learning applications  personal behavior patterns  offline average user models  personalized models  motion sequences  inertial measuring units  Adaptation models  Task analysis  Sensors  Computational modeling  Data models  Hardware  Training 
Abstract: Online action classification is an important field of research, enabling the particularly interesting application scenario of controlling wearable devices which actively support the user's motions. The majority of machine learning applications of real-world systems are based on pre-trained average-user models without any personalization. Our long-term goal is to provide a system that adapts to its user's personal behavior patterns on the fly and in real-time. Ideally, we want to initiate a continuous collaboration between the system and the user where both alternatively adjust to each other to maximize the system's utility. Such tasks are not feasible with static models. In this paper, we investigate the potential and benefits of personalized online learning in the task of online action classification. We record motion sequences of different subjects wearing the Xsens bodysuit, which incorporates multiple inertial measuring units, enabling a fine-grained discrimination of motions. On this basis, we first perform a feature selection, showing that only a few sensors are necessary to achieve a high classification performance. Subsequently, we compare the recognition capabilities of offline average user models against personalized models trained in an online way. Our experiments conclude that personalized models require only few data to outperform average user systems and are particularly valuable for applications with limited computational hardware which rely on the raw sensor inputs only.

Title: Knowledge is Never Enough: Towards Web Aided Deep Open World Recognition
Key Words: data mining  learning (artificial intelligence)  mobile robots  object recognition  robot vision  deep learning architecture  deep network  deep extension  nonparametric model  autonomous mining  robot platform  deep open world recognition  visual knowledge gaps  open set recognition  visual modules  Robots  Visualization  Training  Feature extraction  Task analysis  Artificial neural networks  Semantics 
Abstract: While today's robots are able to perform sophisticated tasks, they can only act on objects they have been trained to recognize. This is a severe limitation: any robot will inevitably see new objects in unconstrained settings, and thus will always have visual knowledge gaps. However, standard visual modules are usually built on a limited set of classes and are based on the strong prior that an object must belong to one of those classes. Identifying whether an instance does not belong to the set of known categories (i.e. open set recognition), only partially tackles this problem, as a truly autonomous agent should be able not only to detect what it does not know, but also to extend dynamically its knowledge about the world. We contribute to this challenge with a deep learning architecture that can dynamically update its known classes in an end-to-end fashion. The proposed deep network, based on a deep extension of a non-parametric model, detects whether a perceived object belongs to the set of categories known by the system and learns it without the need to retrain the whole system from scratch. Annotated images about the new category can be provided by an `oracle' (i.e. human supervision), or by autonomous mining of the Web. Experiments on two different databases and on a robot platform demonstrate the promise of our approach.

Title: Inferring Robot Morphology from Observation of Unscripted Movement
Key Words: image colour analysis  learning (artificial intelligence)  manipulator kinematics  mobile robots  motion control  multi-robot systems  recurrent neural nets  robot vision  low-cost RGB-D camera output  task sharing  shared communication protocol  centralized planner  shared action  kinematic model  large-scale data  RNN-based methods  unscripted movement observation  robots morphological structure  Robot sensing systems  Robot kinematics  Three-dimensional displays  Morphology  Task analysis  Manipulators 
Abstract: Task sharing between heterogeneous robots currently requires a priori capability knowledge, a shared communication protocol, or a centralized planner. However, in practice, when two robots are brought together, the effort required to construct shared action and structure models can be significant. In this paper, we describe our approach to determining the kinematic model of a robot based purely on observation of unscripted movement. We describe construction of large-scale data simulating low-cost RGB-D camera output, and application of two different RNN-based methods to the learning problem. Our results suggest that this is an efficient and effective way to determine a robot's morphological structure without requiring communication or pre-existing knowledge of its capabilities.

Title: The H3D Dataset for Full-Surround 3D Multi-Object Detection and Tracking in Crowded Urban Scenes
Key Words: object detection  object tracking  optical radar  optical scanners  road traffic  stereo image processing  large-scale 3D point cloud dataset  crowded urban scenes  Honda Research Institute 3D Dataset  tracking dataset  3D LiDAR scanner  highly interactive traffic scenes  H3D dataset  Three-dimensional displays  Automobiles  Laser radar  Labeling  Robot sensing systems  Global Positioning System  Object detection 
Abstract: 3D multi-object detection and tracking are crucial for traffic scene understanding. However, the community pays less attention to these areas due to the lack of a standardized benchmark dataset to advance the field. Moreover, existing datasets (e.g., KITTI [1]) do not provide sufficient data and labels to tackle challenging scenes where highly interactive and occluded traffic participants are present. To address the issues, we present the Honda Research Institute 3D Dataset (H3D), a large-scale full-surround 3D multi-object detection and tracking dataset collected using a 3D LiDAR scanner. H3D comprises of 160 crowded and highly interactive traffic scenes with a total of 1 million labeled instances in 27,721 frames. With unique dataset size, rich annotations, and complex scenes, H3D is gathered to stimulate research on full-surround 3D multi-object detection and tracking. To effectively and efficiently annotate a large-scale 3D point cloud dataset, we propose a labeling methodology to speed up the overall annotation cycle. A standardized benchmark is created to evaluate full-surround 3D multi-object detection and tracking algorithms. 3D object detection and tracking algorithms are trained and tested on H3D. Finally, sources of errors are discussed for the development of future algorithms.

Title: Joint Learning of Instance and Semantic Segmentation for Robotic Pick-and-Place with Heavy Occlusions in Clutter
Key Words: feature extraction  image segmentation  learning (artificial intelligence)  manipulators  robot vision  image-level reasoning  joint learning model  visible region masks  occluded region masks  instance occlusion segmentation  semantic occlusion segmentation  instance segmentation model  feature extractor  robotic pick-and-place tasks  Feature extraction  Image segmentation  Semantics  Task analysis  Robots  Cognition  Predictive models 
Abstract: We present joint learning of instance and semantic segmentation for visible and occluded region masks. Sharing the feature extractor with instance occlusion segmentation, we introduce semantic occlusion segmentation into the instance segmentation model. This joint learning fuses the instance-and image-level reasoning of the mask prediction on the different segmentation tasks, which was missing in the previous work of learning instance segmentation only (instance-only). In the experiments, we evaluated the proposed joint learning comparing the instance-only learning on the test dataset. We also applied the joint learning model to 2 different types of robotic pick-and-place tasks (random and target picking) and evaluated its effectiveness to achieve real-world robotic tasks.

Title: Weakly Supervised Recognition of Surgical Gestures
Key Words: feature extraction  Gaussian processes  gesture recognition  image classification  image motion analysis  image representation  image segmentation  medical image processing  medical robotics  robot kinematics  surgery  trajectory control  unsupervised learning  action recognition  surgical trajectories  ground truth annotations  gesture recognition  surgical demonstrations  kinematic trajectories  surgical robots  surgical gestures  automatic segmentation  surgical skill assessment  surgical automation  unsupervised learning methods  action units  supervised recognition approaches  GMM-based algorithm  task-agnostic initialization methods  Needles  Trajectory  Kinematics  Measurement  Tools  Task analysis  Robots  Classification  Gaussian Mixture Models  robotic surgery  kinematics  surgical gesture recognition 
Abstract: Kinematic trajectories recorded from surgical robots contain information about surgical gestures and potentially encode cues about surgeon's skill levels. Automatic segmentation of these trajectories into meaningful action units could help to develop new metrics for surgical skill assessment as well as to simplify surgical automation. State-of-the-art methods for action recognition relied on manual labelling of large datasets, which is time consuming and error prone. Unsupervised methods have been developed to overcome these limitations. However, they often rely on tedious parameter tuning and perform less well than supervised approaches, especially on data with high variability such as surgical trajectories. Hence, the potential of weak supervision could be to improve unsupervised learning while avoiding manual annotation of large datasets. In this paper, we used at a minimum one expert demonstration and its ground truth annotations to generate an appropriate initialization for a GMM-based algorithm for gesture recognition. We showed on real surgical demonstrations that the latter significantly outperforms standard task-agnostic initialization methods. We also demonstrated how to improve the recognition accuracy further by redefining the actions and optimising the inputs.

Title: Visual-Inertial Navigation: A Concise Review
Key Words: augmented reality  image sensors  inertial navigation  mobile computing  mobile robots  robot vision  SLAM (robots)  inertial sensors  visual sensors  visual-inertial navigation systems  mobile augmented reality  aerial navigation  autonomous driving  VINS  SLAM  Cameras  Visualization  Navigation  Sensors  Acceleration  Noise measurement  Fuses 
Abstract: As inertial and visual sensors are becoming ubiquitous, visual-inertial navigation systems (VINS) have prevailed in a wide range of applications from mobile augmented reality to aerial navigation to autonomous driving, in part because of the complementary sensing capabilities and the decreasing costs and size of the sensors. In this paper, we survey thoroughly the research efforts taken in this field and strive to provide a concise but complete review of the related work - which is unfortunately missing in the literature while being greatly demanded by researchers and engineers - in the hope to accelerate the VINS research and beyond in our society as a whole.

Title: Building a Winning Self-Driving Car in Six Months
Key Words: automobiles  closed loop systems  mobile robots  multi-robot systems  robot vision  basic autonomy features  robust algorithms  multisensor visual localization solution  winning self-driving car  SAE AutoDrive Challenge  Level 4 autonomous vehicle  Yuma  Arizona  Zeus' complete system architecture  CPU  closed-loop performance  Cameras  Real-time systems  Navigation  Computer architecture  Laser radar  Visualization  Systems architecture 
Abstract: The SAE AutoDrive Challenge is a three-year competition to develop a Level 4 autonomous vehicle by 2020. The first set of challenges were held in April of 2018 in Yuma, Arizona. Our team (aUToronto/Zeus) placed first. In this paper, we describe Zeus' complete system architecture and specialized algorithms that enabled us to win. We show that it is possible to develop a vehicle with basic autonomy features in just six months relying on simple, robust algorithms. We do not make use of a prior map. Instead, we have developed a multi-sensor visual localization solution. All the algorithms in the paper run in real-time using CPUs only. We also highlight the closed-loop performance of the system in detail in several experiments.

Title: Hierarchical Game-Theoretic Planning for Autonomous Vehicles
Key Words: decision making  game theory  path planning  remotely operated vehicles  road traffic control  road vehicles  trajectory control  game-theoretic trajectory planning algorithm  trajectory optimization  dynamic games  autonomous driving technology  drivers  dynamic game theory  hierarchical game-theoretic planning  human driver  autonomous vehicle  planning horizon  simplified information structure  short-horizon tactical game  long-horizon strategic game  Vehicle dynamics  Autonomous vehicles  Planning  Games  Trajectory  Computational modeling 
Abstract: The actions of an autonomous vehicle on the road affect and are affected by those of other drivers, whether overtaking, negotiating a merge, or avoiding an accident. This mutual dependence, best captured by dynamic game theory, creates a strong coupling between the vehicle's planning and its predictions of other drivers' behavior, and constitutes an open problem with direct implications on the safety and viability of autonomous driving technology. Unfortunately, dynamic games are too computationally demanding to meet the real-time constraints of autonomous driving in its continuous state and action space. In this paper, we introduce a novel game-theoretic trajectory planning algorithm for autonomous driving, that enables real-time performance by hierarchically decomposing the underlying dynamic game into a long-horizon “strategic” game with simplified dynamics and full information structure, and a short-horizon “tactical” game with full dynamics and a simplified information structure. The value of the strategic game is used to guide the tactical planning, implicitly extending the planning horizon, pushing the local trajectory optimization closer to global solutions, and, most importantly, quantitatively accounting for the autonomous vehicle and the human driver's ability and incentives to influence each other. In addition, our approach admits non-deterministic models of human decision-making, rather than relying on perfectly rational predictions. Our results showcase richer, safer, and more effective autonomous behavior in comparison to existing techniques.

Title: IceVisionSet: lossless video dataset collected on Russian winter roads with traffic sign annotations
Key Words: cameras  computer vision  driver information systems  image recognition  road traffic  visual perception  camera settings  weather conditions  traffic sign images  Russian winter roads  Russian traffic code  IceVisionSet  lossless video dataset  traffic sign annotations  autonomous vehicles  traffic signs  image data  computer vision systems  Cameras  Image coding  Tools  Roads  Automobiles  Autonomous vehicles  Computer vision 
Abstract: Ability of autonomous vehicles to operate in complex dynamic environments requires, among other things, fast and accurate perception of surroundings, which includes recognition and tracking of traffic signs.For development and testing of modern sophisticated computer vision systems large and diverse datasets are of the major importance. To test the robustness of algorithms, image data with different moving speeds, camera settings, lighting and weather conditions are especially important.In this work we present a comprehensive, lifelike dataset of traffic sign images collected on the Russian winter roads in varying conditions, which include different weather, camera exposure, illumination and moving speeds. The dataset was annotated in accordance with the Russian traffic code. Annotation results and images are published under open CC BY 4.0 license and can be downloaded from the project website: http://oscar.skoltech.ru/.

Title: Integrated UWB-Vision Approach for Autonomous Docking of UAVs in GPS-denied Environments
Key Words: autonomous aerial vehicles  computer vision  displacement measurement  Global Positioning System  mobile robots  robot vision  unmanned aerial vehicles  ultrawideband ranging sensor  approaching phase  autonomous approaching landing capabilities  vision-based techniques  GPS-denied environments  autonomous docking  integrated UWB-vision approach  vision-derived poses  UWB measurements  onboard vision system  relative displacement measurements  UAV relative  Displacement measurement  Unmanned aerial vehicles  Distance measurement  Visualization  Optical variables measurement  Optical feedback  Optical saturation 
Abstract: Though vision-based techniques have become quite popular for autonomous docking of Unmanned Aerial Vehicles (UAVs), due to limited field of view (FOV), the UAV must rely on other methods to detect and approach the target before vision can be used. In this paper we propose a method combining Ultra-wideband (UWB) ranging sensor with vision-based techniques to achieve both autonomous approaching and landing capabilities in GPS-denied environments. In the approaching phase, a robust and efficient recursive least-square optimization algorithm is proposed to estimate the position of the UAV relative to the target by using the distance and relative displacement measurements. Using this estimate, UAV is able to approach the target until the landing pad is detected by an onboard vision system, then UWB measurements and vision-derived poses are fused with onboard sensor of UAV to facilitate an accurate landing maneuver. Real-world experiments are conducted to demonstrate the efficiency of our method.

Title: Online Vehicle Trajectory Prediction using Policy Anticipation Network and optimization-based Context Reasoning
Key Words: inference mechanisms  optimisation  regression analysis  road traffic control  traffic engineering computing  ubiquitous computing  online vehicle trajectory prediction  two-level vehicle trajectory prediction framework  urban autonomous driving  complex contextual factors  traffic regulations  moving agents  high-level policy anticipation  low-level context reasoning  short-term memory network  sequential history observations  low-level optimization-based context reasoning process  optimization-based reasoning process  two-level reasoning process  continuous trajectory  regression-based trajectory prediction methods  vehicle motions  Trajectory  Cognition  Optimization  Hidden Markov models  Predictive models  Geometry  Adaptation models 
Abstract: In this paper, we present an online two-level vehicle trajectory prediction framework for urban autonomous driving where there are complex contextual factors, such as lane geometries, road constructions, traffic regulations and moving agents. Our method combines high-level policy anticipation with low-level context reasoning. We leverage a long short-term memory (LSTM) network to anticipate the vehicle's driving policy (e.g., forward, yield, turn left, turn right, etc.) using its sequential history observations. The policy is then used to guide a low-level optimization-based context reasoning process. We show that it is essential to incorporate the prior policy anticipation due to the multimodal nature of the future trajectory. Moreover, contrary to existing regression-based trajectory prediction methods, our optimization-based reasoning process can cope with complex contextual factors. The final output of the two-level reasoning process is a continuous trajectory that automatically adapts to different traffic configurations and accurately predicts future vehicle motions. The performance of the proposed framework is analyzed and validated in an emerging autonomous driving simulation platform (CARLA).

Title: A Flexible Low-Cost Biologically Inspired Sonar Sensor Platform for Robotic Applications
Key Words: bioacoustics  biomimetics  mobile robots  navigation  path planning  sonar  flexible low-cost biologically inspired sonar sensor  robotic applications  biomimetic sonar experiments  autonomous sonar navigation  ultrasound  subsumption architecture  autonomous navigation control system  P3DX robotics platform  big-eared bat  sonar sensor platform  biomimetic control mechanisms  Micronycteris microtis  echolocating animals  Robot sensing systems  Sonar  Microphones  Sonar navigation  Universal Serial Bus  Ultrasonic imaging 
Abstract: In this paper we present a flexible low-cost sonar sensor platform that can be used for a wide range of biomimetic sonar experiments and autonomous sonar navigation targeted at robotics applications. The navigation abilities of bats using ultrasound (sonar) in unknown cluttered environments are very effective and can be distilled into a sensor architecture and accompanying control methodology that lends itself to be implemented on cost efficient hardware. The sensor architecture and processing methodology of this sensing platform mimics that of bats. In this paper we specifically focused on the common big-eared bat (Micronycteris microtis) although this could be transferred to other bat species or even other echolocating animals since the experimental platform was designed for flexibility. Using this platform we were able to implement a control system using a subsumption architecture that features different behavior patterns based solely on the sonar sensor as a source of exteroceptive information. In order to validate the combination of our autonomous navigation control system and our developed sonar sensor platform, the hardware was mounted on the P3DX robotics platform that was introduced in an unknown testing environment and have it drive autonomously. These experiments were used to validate our assumption of the efficacy of these relatively simple biomimetic control mechanisms and thus alleviating the need for expensive sensing platforms for certain robotics applications.

Title: ClusterNav: Learning-Based Robust Navigation Operating in Cluttered Environments
Key Words: assisted living  geriatrics  human-robot interaction  learning (artificial intelligence)  mobile robots  navigation  path planning  robust control  service robots  telerobotics  nonexpert users  ClusterNav  cluttered environments  robust autonomous navigation  social robots  elderly users  traditional model-based navigation techniques  stable theoretical foundation  practical foundation  autonomous operation  domestic environments  acceptable behaviour  novel learning-based technique  geometric representation  acceptable manner  elderly care facility  traditional model-based approach  learning-based robust navigation  Trajectory  Navigation  Robot kinematics  Clustering algorithms  Reinforcement learning 
Abstract: Robust autonomous navigation is one of the most important aspects in the acceptance of social robots by elderly users. Traditional model-based navigation techniques provide a stable theoretical and practical foundation for autonomous operation in domestic environments, but fall short in achieving human-like, acceptable behaviour while still being able to robustly navigate cluttered environments. In this work, we propose ClusterNav, a novel learning-based technique for navigation. Our technique consists of teaching the robot how it should move in the environment in a human-like manner, capturing key features of this demonstration in a geometric representation of the environment. This representation is then used to generate new trajectories for execution, allowing the robot move in an acceptable manner. We have tested our technique in a real environment in an elderly care facility, comparing it with the traditional model-based approach. Tests involved both expert and non-expert users teleoperating the robot. Results show that ClusterNav is capable of navigating the environment, achieving better similarity with the reference trajectories and higher execution speed when compared to the model-based approach.

Title: Adaptive motor control and learning in a spiking neural network realised on a mixed-signal neuromorphic processor
Key Words: control engineering computing  feedback  learning (artificial intelligence)  mobile robots  neural chips  neurocontrollers  adaptive motor control  mixed-signal neuromorphic processor  neuromorphic computing  biological neural networks  spiking neural network architecture  sensory feedback  control rotational velocity  robotic vehicle  correct motor command  miniature mobile vehicle  two-layer spiking neural network  neuromorphic chip  purely neuromorphic motor control  spiking neurons  neuromorphic device  on-chip plastic synaptic weights  Neuromorphics  Neurons  Biological neural networks  Computer architecture  Robot sensing systems  Sociology 
Abstract: Neuromorphic computing is a new paradigm for design of both the computing hardware and algorithms inspired by biological neural networks. The event-based nature and the inherent parallelism make neuromorphic computing a promising paradigm for building efficient neural network based architectures for control of fast and agile robots. In this paper, we present a spiking neural network architecture that uses sensory feedback to control rotational velocity of a robotic vehicle. When the velocity reaches the target value, the mapping from the target velocity of the vehicle to the correct motor command, both represented in the spiking neural network on the neuromorphic device, is autonomously stored on the device using on-chip plastic synaptic weights. We validate the controller using a wheel motor of a miniature mobile vehicle and inertia measurement unit as the sensory feedback and demonstrate online learning of a simple “inverse model” in a two-layer spiking neural network on the neuromorphic chip. The prototype neuromorphic device that features 256 spiking neurons allows us to realise a simple proof of concept architecture for the purely neuromorphic motor control and learning. The architecture can be easily scaled-up if a larger neuromorphic device is available.

Title: Adaptive Genomic Evolution of Neural Network Topologies (AGENT) for State-to-Action Mapping in Autonomous Agents
Key Words: autonomous aerial vehicles  collision avoidance  genetic algorithms  learning (artificial intelligence)  neurocontrollers  autonomous agents  neural networks  NN  evolutionary algorithm  state-to-action mapping model  neuroevolution process  population diversity  unmanned aerial vehicle collision avoidance problem  adaptive genomic evolution  neural network topologies  augmented topologies formalism  Open AI platform  UAV collision avoidance problem  Genomics  Topology  Sociology  Statistics  Artificial neural networks  Network topology 
Abstract: Neuroevolution is a process of training neural networks (NN) through an evolutionary algorithm, usually to serve as a state-to-action mapping model in control or reinforcement learning-type problems. This paper builds on the Neuro Evolution of Augmented Topologies (NEAT) formalism that allows designing topology and weight evolving NNs. Fundamental advancements are made to the neuroevolution process to address premature stagnation and convergence issues, central among which is the incorporation of automated mechanisms to control the population diversity and average fitness improvement within the neuroevolution process. Insights into the performance and efficiency of the new algorithm is obtained by evaluating it on three benchmark problems from the Open AI platform and an Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV) collision avoidance problem.

Title: End to End Learning of a Multi-Layered Snn Based on R-Stdp for a Target Tracking Snake-Like Robot
Key Words: learning (artificial intelligence)  mobile robots  neurocontrollers  path planning  target tracking  multilayered SNN  target tracking snake-like robot  end-to-end learning approach  R-STDP  SNN controller  target tracking tasks  reward-modulated spike-timing-dependent plasticity  multilayered spiking neural network  learning algorithms  lateral tracking  Neurons  Target tracking  Task analysis  Synapses  Robot sensing systems  Training 
Abstract: This paper introduces an end-to-end learning approach based on Reward-modulated Spike-Timing-Dependent Plasticity (R-STDP) for a multi-layered spiking neural network (SNN). As a case study, a snake-like robot is used as an agent to perform target tracking tasks on the basis of our proposed approach. Since the key of R-STDP is to use rewards to modulate synapse strengthens, we first propose a general way to propagate the reward back through a multi-layered SNN. Upon the proposed approach, we build up an SNN controller that drives a snake-like robot for performing target tracking tasks. We demonstrate the practicability and advantage of our approach in terms of lateral tracking accuracy by comparing it to other state-of-the-art learning algorithms for SNNs based on R-STDP.

Title: Improving collective decision accuracy via time-varying cross-inhibition
Key Words: decision making  multi-robot systems  stochastic processes  time-varying cross-inhibition  decentralised decision-making  robot swarm  diffusive search  decentralised algorithm  house-hunting honeybees  single decentralised parameter  balance exploration  swarm robotics simulations  collective decision accuracy  Robot sensing systems  Robot kinematics  Noise measurement  Task analysis  Swarm robotics  Analytical models 
Abstract: We investigate decentralised decision-making, in which a robot swarm is tasked with selecting the best-quality option among a set of alternatives. Individual robots are simplistic as they only perform diffusive search, make local noisy estimates of the options' quality, and exchange information with near neighbours. We propose a decentralised algorithm, inspired by house-hunting honeybees, to efficiently aggregate noisy estimations. Individual robots, by varying over time a single decentralised parameter that modulates the interaction strength, balance exploration and agreement. In this way, the swarm first identifies the options under consideration, then rapidly converges on the best available option, even when outnumbered by lower quality options. We present stochastic analyses and swarm robotics simulations to compare the novel strategy with previous methods and to quantify the performance improvement. The proposed strategy limits the spreading of errors within the population and allows swarms of simple noisy units with minimal communication capabilities to make highly accurate collective decisions in predictable time.

Title: A Motion Planning Scheme for Cooperative Loading Using Heterogeneous Robotic Agents
Key Words: collision avoidance  mobile robots  motion control  probability  obstacle avoidance  robotic agents  probabilistic road maps technique  cooperative loading task  redundant static manipulator  mobile platform  static obstacles  cluttered workspace  control architecture  decentralized motion planning  motion planning scheme  convergence properties  motion control scheme  optimal loading configuration  Manipulators  Loading  Task analysis  Robot kinematics  Kinematics  Mobile robots 
Abstract: In this work, we present a decentralized motion planning and control architecture for the cooperative loading task using heterogeneous robotic agents operating in a cluttered workspace with static obstacles. Initially, we tackle the problem of calculating a set of feasible loading configurations via a Probabilistic Road Maps technique. Next, an optimal loading configuration is selected considering the connectivity of the space and the Euclidean distance between the robotic agents. A motion control scheme for each agent is designed and implemented in order to autonomously guide each robot to the desired loading configuration with guaranteed obstacle avoidance and convergence properties. The performance and the applicability of the proposed strategy is experimentally verified in a variety of loading scenarios using a redundant static manipulator and a mobile platform.

Title: Voluntary Retreat for Decentralized Interference Reduction in Robot Swarms
Key Words: decentralised control  mobile robots  multi-robot systems  decentralized interference reduction  densely-packed robot swarms  confined regions  physical space-forces robots  decentralized algorithm  distributed collection task  spatial interference  Robot kinematics  Robot sensing systems  Collision avoidance  Task analysis  Interference  Analytical models 
Abstract: In densely-packed robot swarms operating in confined regions, spatial interference-which manifests itself as a competition for physical space-forces robots to spend more time navigating around each other rather than performing the primary task. This paper develops a decentralized algorithm that enables individual robots to decide whether to stay in the region and contribute to the overall mission, or vacate the region so as to reduce the negative effects that interference has on the overall efficiency of the swarm. We develop this algorithm in the context of a distributed collection task, where a team of robots collect and deposit objects from one set of locations to another in a given region. Robots do not communicate and use only binary information regarding the presence of other robots around them to make the decision to stay or retreat. We illustrate the efficacy of the algorithm with experiments on a team of real robots.

Title: Spatial Coverage Without Computation
Key Words: mobile robots  multi-robot systems  navigation  path planning  random processes  robot redundancy  optimized random walk  performance improvements  sub-millimeter-sized robots  spatial coverage  anonymous robots  mobile robots  two-dimensional space  extremely simple robots  run-time computation  computer simulations  deterministic controller  off-line optimization  physical e-puck robots  Robot kinematics  Robot sensing systems  Mobile robots  Wheels  Area measurement 
Abstract: We study the problem of controlling a swarm of anonymous, mobile robots to cooperatively cover an unknown two-dimensional space. The novelty of our proposed solution is that it is applicable to extremely simple robots that lack run-time computation or storage. The solution requires only a single bit of information per robot-whether or not another robot is present in its line of sight. Computer simulations show that our deterministic controller, which was obtained through off-line optimization, achieves around 71-76% coverage in a test scenario with no robot redundancy, which corresponds to a 26-39% reduction of the area that is not covered, when compared to an optimized random walk. A moderately lower level of performance was observed in 20 experimental trials with 25 physical e-puck robots. Moreover, we demonstrate that the same controller can be used in environments of different dimensions and even to navigate a maze. The controller provides a baseline against which one can quantify the performance improvements that more advanced and expensive techniques may offer. Moreover, due to its simplicity, it could potentially be implemented on swarms of sub-millimeter-sized robots. This would pave the way for new applications in micro-medicine.

Title: DeepSignals: Predicting Intent of Drivers Through Visual Signals
Key Words: alarm systems  belief networks  image sequences  learning (artificial intelligence)  neural nets  psychology  traffic engineering computing  video signal processing  driver intention detection  emergency flashers  turn signals  stops  lane changes  sudden events  visual signals  DeepSignals  temporal information  spatial information  deep neural network  video sequences  potentially critical reaction time  Feature extraction  Convolution  Vehicles  Visualization  Streaming media  Computer architecture  Logic gates 
Abstract: Detecting the intention of drivers is an essential task in self-driving, necessary to anticipate sudden events like lane changes and stops. Turn signals and emergency flashers communicate such intentions, providing seconds of potentially critical reaction time. In this paper, we propose to detect these signals in video sequences by using a deep neural network that reasons about both spatial and temporal information. Our experiments on more than a million frames show high per-frame accuracy in very challenging scenarios.

Title: Real-time Intent Prediction of Pedestrians for Autonomous Ground Vehicles via Spatio-Temporal DenseNet
Key Words: cameras  control engineering computing  image colour analysis  image sequences  mobile robots  object detection  object tracking  pedestrians  road traffic  traffic engineering computing  pedestrians  complex environments  vulnerable road users  intent action prediction  urban traffic environments  monocular RGB camera  tracking-by-detection technique  spatio-temporal DenseNet model  autonomous ground vehicles  image sequences  real-time intent prediction  Real-time systems  Task analysis  Predictive models  Two dimensional displays  Image sequences  Cameras  Activity recognition 
Abstract: Understanding the behaviors and intentions of humans are one of the main challenges autonomous ground vehicles still faced with. More specifically, when it comes to complex environments such as urban traffic scenes, inferring the intentions and actions of vulnerable road users such as pedestrians become even harder. In this paper, we address the problem of intent action prediction of pedestrians in urban traffic environments using only image sequences from a monocular RGB camera. We propose a real-time framework that can accurately detect, track and predict the intended actions of pedestrians based on a tracking-by-detection technique in conjunction with a novel spatio-temporal DenseNet model. We trained and evaluated our framework based on real data collected from urban traffic environments. Our framework has shown resilient and competitive results in comparison to other baseline approaches. Overall, we achieved an average precision score of 84.76% with real-time performance at 20 FPS.

Title: Egocentric Vision-based Future Vehicle Localization for Intelligent Driving Assistance Systems
Key Words: driver information systems  image coding  image sequences  recurrent neural nets  road vehicles  egocentric vision-based future vehicle localization  intelligent driving assistance systems  safety-critical applications  autonomous driving  target vehicles  first-person view  ego-vehicle  multistream recurrent neural network encoder-decoder model  object location  pixel-level observations  future motion  prediction accuracy  intelligent vehicles  automated vehicles  motion planning capability  vehicle trajectories  dense optical flow  Trajectory  Cameras  Optical imaging  Decoding  Videos  Predictive models  Advanced driver assistance systems 
Abstract: Predicting the future location of vehicles is essential for safety-critical applications such as advanced driver assistance systems (ADAS) and autonomous driving. This paper introduces a novel approach to simultaneously predict both the location and scale of target vehicles in the first-person (egocentric) view of an ego-vehicle. We present a multi-stream recurrent neural network (RNN) encoder-decoder model that separately captures both object location and scale and pixel-level observations for future vehicle localization. We show that incorporating dense optical flow improves prediction results significantly since it captures information about motion as well as appearance change. We also find that explicitly modeling future motion of the ego-vehicle improves the prediction accuracy, which could be especially beneficial in intelligent and automated vehicles that have motion planning capability. To evaluate the performance of our approach, we present a new dataset of first-person videos collected from a variety of scenarios at road intersections, which are particularly challenging moments for prediction because vehicle trajectories are diverse and dynamic. Code and dataset have been made available at: https://usa.honda-ri.com/hevi.

Title: Uncertainty-Aware Driver Trajectory Prediction at Urban Intersections
Key Words: driver information systems  neural nets  road safety  road traffic  road vehicles  variational neural network approach  multiple sensors  conditional variational distribution  confidence estimate  different time horizons  additional predictors  variational predictor  physics-based predictor  confidence estimations  system performance  vehicle autonomy  real-world urban driving data  prediction error  physics-based model  uncertainty-aware driver trajectory prediction  urban intersections  advanced driving systems  shared control  automation systems  uncertain situations  driver trajectory distributions  Trajectory  Vehicles  Predictive models  Sensors  Uncertainty  Autonomous systems  Task analysis 
Abstract: Predicting the motion of a driver's vehicle is crucial for advanced driving systems, enabling detection of potential risks towards shared control between the driver and automation systems. In this paper, we propose a variational neural network approach that predicts future driver trajectory distributions for the vehicle based on multiple sensors. Our predictor generates both a conditional variational distribution of future trajectories, as well as a confidence estimate for different time horizons. Our approach allows us to handle inherently uncertain situations, and reason about information gain from each input, as well as combine our model with additional predictors, creating a mixture of experts. We show how to augment the variational predictor with a physics-based predictor, and based on their confidence estimations, improve overall system performance. The resulting combined model is aware of the uncertainty associated with its predictions, which can help the vehicle autonomy to make decisions with more confidence. The model is validated on real-world urban driving data collected in multiple locations. This validation demonstrates that our approach improves the prediction error of a physics-based model by 25% while successfully identifying the uncertain cases with 82% accuracy.

Title: Go with the Flow: Exploration and Mapping of Pedestrian Flow Patterns from Partial Observations
Key Words: mobile robots  navigation  path planning  pedestrians  stochastic processes  pedestrian flow patterns  partial observations  safe robot navigation  spatial constraints  temporal constraints  multiple Poisson processes  long-term pedestrian datasets  uninformed exploration strategies  human motion patterns  robot navigation  Robots  Uncertainty  Predictive models  Buildings  Probabilistic logic  Data models  Collision avoidance 
Abstract: Understanding how people are likely to behave in an environment is a key requirement for efficient and safe robot navigation. However, mobile platforms are subject to spatial and temporal constraints, meaning that only partial observations of human activities are typically available to a robot, while the activity patterns of people in a given environment may also change at different times. To address these issues we present as the main contribution an exploration strategy for acquiring models of pedestrian flows, which decides not only the locations to explore but also the times when to explore them. The approach is driven by the uncertainty from multiple Poisson processes built from past observations. The approach is evaluated using two long-term pedestrian datasets, comparing its performance against uninformed exploration strategies. The results show that when using the uncertainty in the exploration policy, model accuracy increases, enabling faster learning of human motion patterns.

Title: Design and Analysis of A Miniature Two-Wheg Climbing Robot with Robust Internal and External Transitioning Capabilities
Key Words: actuators  design engineering  legged locomotion  robot kinematics  climbing robot  robust external transitioning capabilities  robust internal transitioning capabilities  4-way external transitions  4-way internal transitions  indepth force analysis  robust transitioning capabilities  two-wheg miniature  plane-to-plane transitioning  Climbing robots  Force  Robot kinematics  Task analysis  Adhesives  Torque 
Abstract: Plane-to-plane transitioning has been a significant challenge for climbing robots. To accomplish this, additional actuator or robot module is usually required which significantly increases both size and weight of the robot. This paper presents a two-wheg miniature climbing robot with a novel passive vertical tail component which results in robust transitioning capabilities. The design decision was derived from an indepth force analysis of the climbing robot while performing the transition. The theoretical analysis is verified through a working prototype with robust transitioning capabilities whose performance follows closely the analytical prediction. The climbing robot is able to climb any slope angles, 4-way internal transitions, and 4-way external transitions. This work contributes to the understanding and advancement of the transitioning capabilities and the design of a simple climbing robot, which expands the possibilities of scaling down miniature climbing robot further.

Title: Design and Implementation of CCRobot-II: a Palm-based Cable Climbing Robot for Cable-stayed Bridge Inspection
Key Words: bridges (structures)  cables (mechanical)  design engineering  inspection  legged locomotion  wheels  cable-stayed bridge inspection  design method  bio-inspired climbing robotic technology  palm-based gripping module  wheels  climbing gait  trajectory algorithm  mass 25.0 kg  mass 30.0 kg  size 1.1 m  Bridges  Climbing robots  Force  Wheels  Inspection 
Abstract: This project aims at developing a bio-inspired climbing robotic technology for cable inspection on the cable-stayed bridge. The design and implementation of a palm-based cable climbing robot: CCRobot-II with mass 25 kg, maximal payload 30kg and maximal length 1.1 m are described. CCRobot-II consists of several novel design features, including the palm-based gripping module, the alternating-sliding frame specialized for high-speed climbing, and the following wheels. With its carefully designed mechanism, climbing gait and trajectory algorithm, CCRobot-II is able to crawl along a bridge cable with a maximal speed 5.2 m/min. This speed has been hardly achieved by a existing climbing robot with such a large scale, and it is nearly the twice as the climbing speed of CCRobot-I which is designed previously. CCRobot-II also works effectively even if the bridge cable surface is attached with small obstacles. Experiments have been conducted, the results show that CCRobot-II has potential engineering applications on the cable-stayed bridge for fieldwork.

Title: Dynamic Modeling and Gait Analysis for Miniature Robots in the Absence of Foot Placement Control
Key Words: gait analysis  humanoid robots  legged locomotion  microrobots  robot dynamics  dynamic modeling  gait analysis  foot placement control  comprehensive dynamic model  miniature foldable robot  gait planning  foot placement  miniature robots  MinIAQ-II robot  Legged locomotion  Foot  Kinematics  Mathematical model  Robot kinematics  Robot sensing systems  Origami-Inspired Robots  Foldable Robots  Miniature Robots  Legged Robots  Gait Analysis  Dynamics 
Abstract: The study of animals and insects have led to realization that animals select their gaits, patterns of leg movement, according to speed. For proper gait planning, the legs must be controlled for proper foot placement with respect to the body motion and ground interactions. However, in small scale robotic platforms gait planning through foot placement control is neither cost effective nor easily attainable due to a lack of available sensors. Thus, even though a desired gait is envisioned at the design phase, it is not known whether the gait is optimum. In this work, we present the comprehensive dynamic model of the miniature foldable robot, MinIAQ-II, which has four independently actuated legs. Dynamic model is used to perform gait analysis, to investigate the difference between the intended gait and the achieved gait in the absence of foot placement control. The model is verified through slow speed walking experiments on flat terrain. The work presented can be modified for different miniature robots with passive legs to predict their locomotion under no foot placement control.

Title: Memory Efficient Experience Replay for Streaming Learning
Key Words: cognition  learning (artificial intelligence)  neural nets  neurophysiology  learning settings  memory efficient experience replay  supervised machine learning  static settings  data stream  streaming learning  conventional deep neural networks  full rehearsal  memory efficient rehearsal  ExStream algorithm  Clustering algorithms  Training  Prototypes  Robots  Buffer storage  Partitioning algorithms  Neural networks 
Abstract: In supervised machine learning, an agent is typically trained once and then deployed. While this works well for static settings, robots often operate in changing environments and must quickly learn new things from data streams. In this paradigm, known as streaming learning, a learner is trained online, in a single pass, from a data stream that cannot be assumed to be independent and identically distributed (iid). Streaming learning will cause conventional deep neural networks (DNNs) to fail for two reasons: 1) they need multiple passes through the entire dataset; and 2) non-iid data will cause catastrophic forgetting. An old fix to both of these issues is rehearsal. To learn a new example, rehearsal mixes it with previous examples, and then this mixture is used to update the DNN. Full rehearsal is slow and memory intensive because it stores all previously observed examples, and its effectiveness for preventing catastrophic forgetting has not been studied in modern DNNs. Here, we describe the ExStream algorithm for memory efficient rehearsal and compare it to alternatives. We find that full rehearsal can eliminate catastrophic forgetting in a variety of streaming learning settings, with ExStream performing well using far less memory and computation.

Title: RoboCSE: Robot Common Sense Embedding
Key Words: belief networks  embedded systems  home automation  mobile robots  service robots  statistical analysis  RoboCSE  robot common sense embedding  autonomous service robots  semantic knowledge  AI2Thor  statistical significant  home environment simulator  Word2Vec  Bayesian logic network  MatterPort3D  Semantics  Training  Robot sensing systems  Cognition  Computational modeling  Training data 
Abstract: Autonomous service robots require computational frameworks that allow them to generalize knowledge to new situations in a manner that models uncertainty while scaling to real-world problem sizes. The Robot Common Sense Embedding (RoboCSE) showcases a class of computational frameworks, multi-relational embeddings, that have not been leveraged in robotics to model semantic knowledge. We validate RoboCSE on a realistic home environment simulator (AI2Thor) to measure how well it generalizes learned knowledge about object affordances, locations, and materials. Our experiments show that RoboCSE can perform prediction better than a baseline that uses pre-trained embeddings, such as Word2Vec, achieving statistically significant improvements while using orders of magnitude less memory than our Bayesian Logic Network baseline. In addition, we show that predictions made by RoboCSE are robust to significant reductions in data available for training as well as domain transfer to MatterPort3D, achieving statistically significant improvements over a baseline that memorizes training data.

Title: Neural Lander: Stable Drone Landing Control Using Learned Dynamics
Key Words: aerodynamics  aircraft control  autonomous aerial vehicles  control system synthesis  feedback  helicopters  learning (artificial intelligence)  linearisation techniques  neurocontrollers  nonlinear control systems  robust control  trajectory control  cross-table trajectory tracking cases  Neural Lander  stable drone landing control  learned dynamics  precise near-ground trajectory control  multirotor drones  complex aerodynamic effects  multirotor airflow  complex effects  smooth landing  robust nonlinear controller  control performance  nominal dynamics model  Deep Neural Network  high-order interactions  Lipschitz constant  Lipschitz property  nonlinear feedback linearization controller  DNN-based nonlinear feedback controller  arbitrarily large neural nets  Baseline Nonlinear Tracking Controller  Aerodynamics  Stability analysis  Rotors  Neural networks  Trajectory tracking  Training  Vehicle dynamics 
Abstract: Precise near-ground trajectory control is difficult for multi-rotor drones, due to the complex aerodynamic effects caused by interactions between multi-rotor airflow and the environment. Conventional control methods often fail to properly account for these complex effects and fall short in accomplishing smooth landing. In this paper, we present a novel deep-learning-based robust nonlinear controller (Neural-Lander) that improves control performance of a quadrotor during landing. Our approach combines a nominal dynamics model with a Deep Neural Network (DNN) that learns high-order interactions. We apply spectral normalization (SN) to constrain the Lipschitz constant of the DNN. Leveraging this Lipschitz property, we design a nonlinear feedback linearization controller using the learned model and prove system stability with disturbance rejection. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first DNN-based nonlinear feedback controller with stability guarantees that can utilize arbitrarily large neural nets. Experimental results demonstrate that the proposed controller significantly outperforms a Baseline Nonlinear Tracking Controller in both landing and cross-table trajectory tracking cases. We also empirically show that the DNN generalizes well to unseen data outside the training domain.

Title: Distributional Deep Reinforcement Learning with a Mixture of Gaussians
Key Words: Gaussian processes  learning (artificial intelligence)  statistical distributions  discrete distribution  softmax parametrization  KL divergence loss  discretization hyperparameters  Atari games  distributional deep reinforcement learning  mixture density network  return distribution  mixtures of Gaussians  Jensen-Tsallis distance  autonomous vehicle driving  Measurement  Reinforcement learning  Games  Approximation algorithms  Neural networks  Autonomous vehicles  Stochastic processes 
Abstract: In this paper, we propose a novel distributional reinforcement learning (RL) method which models the distribution of the sum of rewards using a mixture density network. Recently, it has been shown that modeling the randomness of the return distribution leads to better performance in Atari games and control tasks. Despite the success of the prior work, it has limitations which come from the use of a discrete distribution. First, it needs a projection step and softmax parametrization for the distribution, since it minimizes the KL divergence loss. Secondly, its performance depends on discretization hyperparameters such as the number of atoms and bounds of the support which require domain knowledge. We mitigate these problems with the proposed parameterization, a mixture of Gaussians. Furthermore, we propose a new distance metric called the Jensen-Tsallis distance, which allows the computation of the distance between two mixtures of Gaussians in a closed form. We have conducted various experiments to validate the proposed method, including Atari games and autonomous vehicle driving.

Title: Jointly Learning to Construct and Control Agents using Deep Reinforcement Learning
Key Words: learning (artificial intelligence)  legged locomotion  optimisation  control policy  walking gaits  deep reinforcement learning  learning-based approaches  control network  design distribution  controller access  design parameters  legged locomotion  physical design  Physical design  Optimization  Reinforcement learning  Training  Legged locomotion  Task analysis 
Abstract: The physical design of a robot and the policy that controls its motion are inherently coupled, and should be determined according to the task and environment. In an increasing number of applications, data-driven and learning-based approaches, such as deep reinforcement learning, have proven effective at designing control policies. For most tasks, the only way to evaluate a physical design with respect to such control policies is empirical-i.e., by picking a design and training a control policy for it. Since training these policies is time-consuming, it is computationally infeasible to train separate policies for all possible designs as a means to identify the best one. In this work, we address this limitation by introducing a method that jointly optimizes over the physical design and control network. Our approach maintains a distribution over designs and uses reinforcement learning to optimize a control policy to maximize expected reward over the design distribution. We give the controller access to design parameters to allow it to tailor its policy to each design in the distribution. Throughout training, we shift the distribution towards higher-performing designs, eventually converging to a design and control policy that are jointly optimal. We evaluate our approach in the context of legged locomotion, and demonstrate that it discovers novel designs and walking gaits, outperforming baselines across different settings.

Title: DeltaMag: An Electromagnetic Manipulation System with Parallel Mobile Coils
Key Words: biomagnetism  calibration  catheters  closed loop systems  coils  electromagnetic actuators  magnetic fields  manipulators  medical robotics  microrobots  position control  magnetic capsule mock-up  magnetic catheter mock-up  magnetic field computation  embedded system  multiple parallel mobile coils  3D magnetic field  single coil  field distribution  calibrated mathematical model  good space utilization  magnetic fields  electromagnetic coils  proof-of-concept prototype  parallel mechanism  enlarged workspace  magnetic untethered devices  remote actuation  novel magnetic manipulation system  electromagnetic manipulation system  DeltaMag  Coils  Magnetic devices  Synchronous motors  Three-dimensional displays  Prototypes  Catheters  Computational modeling 
Abstract: In this paper, a novel magnetic manipulation system using mobile coils for remote actuation of magnetic untethered devices in an enlarged workspace is proposed and studied. A parallel mechanism is implemented to actuate the mobile coils. A proof-of-concept prototype is designed and constructed, namely the DeltaMag, which includes three electromagnetic coils for generating magnetic fields and three motors for actuation of the coils. It has good space utilization: ratio between the diameter of the workspace and the diameter of the whole prototype reaches 0.7.A calibrated mathematical model is developed for the field distribution of a single coil, which has an average error of 8.75%. Then, we introduce a calculation method for the 3D magnetic field at any working position for the configuration of multiple parallel mobile coils. Moreover, an embedded system is established for actuating the parallel mechanism, whose pose is fed back via serial communication for magnetic field computation. A vision based approach is developed for closed-loop control of the parallel mechanism. Furthermore, experiments demonstrate the capabilities of the DeltaMag for manipulation of a magnetic catheter mock-up and a magnetic capsule mock-up in a workspace with a diameter more than 200 mm.

Title: Surgical instrument segmentation for endoscopic vision with data fusion of cnn prediction and kinematic pose
Key Words: convolutional neural nets  endoscopes  feature extraction  image segmentation  learning (artificial intelligence)  medical image processing  object tracking  particle filtering (numerical methods)  pose estimation  sensor fusion  surgery  endoscopic vision  data fusion  robust surgical instrument segmentation  instrument segmentation method  convolutional neural networks prediction  kinematic pose information  CNN model ToolNet-C  convolutional feature extractor  pixel-wise segmentor  labeled images  silhouette projection  instrument body  endoscopic image  shape matching likelihood  accurate silhouette mask  final segmentation output  surgical navigation system  debrider instrument  unlabeled images  Instruments  Image segmentation  Feature extraction  Kinematics  Training  Shape  Real-time systems 
Abstract: The real-time and robust surgical instrument segmentation is an important issue for endoscopic vision. We propose an instrument segmentation method fusing the convolutional neural networks (CNN) prediction and the kinematic pose information. First, the CNN model ToolNet-C is designed, which cascades a convolutional feature extractor trained over numerous unlabeled images and a pixel-wise segmentor trained on few labeled images. Second, the silhouette projection of the instrument body onto the endoscopic image is implemented based on the measured kinematic pose. Third, the particle filter with the shape matching likelihood and the weight suppression is proposed for data fusion, whose estimate refines the kinematic pose. The refined pose determines an accurate silhouette mask, which is the final segmentation output. The experiments are conducted with a surgical navigation system, several animal-tissue backgrounds, and a debrider instrument.

Title: Pneumatically Actuated Deployable Tissue Distension Device for NOTES for Colon
Key Words: biological tissues  endoscopes  medical control systems  pneumatic actuators  pneumatic systems  surgery  pneumatically actuated deployable tissue distension device  colon tortuous pathway  pig colon  natural orifice transluminal endoscopic surgery  endoscopic channel  pneumatically driven deployable structure  colon tissue  NOTES technology  surgical tasks  actuated deployable tissue distension device  surgical operations  surgical instruments  air pressure  size 4.5 mm  size 60.0 mm  pressure 3.5 bar  Colon  Electron tubes  Surgery  Task analysis  Bars  Shape  Valves 
Abstract: When performing some surgical tasks inside colon with NOTES technology, colon tissue could block the task space and occlude the endoscopic vision. In order to solve this problem, we developed a pneumatically driven deployable and undeployable structure which can distend collapsing tissue and can be delivered through a 4.5 mm endoscopic channel. The structure is designed to be flexible enough to pass through colon's tortuous pathway. Also, it is designed to hold its shape without continually applying air pressure after deployment. This allows to make use of an endoscopic channel for the other surgical instruments. Besides, due to the compliant nature of the device, it is safe to deploy inside a smaller space than its maximum deployable size. The functionality of the device was verified with an in-vitro experiment. The structure was successfully deployed inside a pig's colon with an inner diameter of 60 mm by applying 3.5 bars of air pressure and created a sufficient task space for surgical operations.

Title: Steering a Multi-armed Robotic Sheath Using Eccentric Precurved Tubes
Key Words: dexterous manipulators  elasticity  medical robotics  neurophysiology  pipes  robot kinematics  surgery  kinematic model  multiarmed robotic sheath  eccentric precurved tubes  single-port minimally invasive procedures  multiple robotic arms  precurved superelastic tubes  Cosserat rod theory  two-arm sheath  concentric tube balanced pair  neuroendoscopy  elastic backbone  push-pull tendons  continuum robot sheath  Electron tubes  Force  Kinematics  Shape  Endoscopes  Manipulators  Steerable sheath  Multiple arms  Concentric tube robots 
Abstract: This paper presents a novel continuum robot sheath for use in single-port minimally invasive procedures such as neuroendoscopy in which the sheath is designed to deliver multiple robotic arms. Articulation of the sheath is achieved by using precurved superelastic tubes lining the working channels used for arm delivery. These tubes perform a similar role to push/pull tendons, but can accomplish shape change of the sheath via rotation as well as translation. A kinematic model using Cosserat rod theory is derived which is based on modeling the system as a set of eccentrically aligned precurved tubes constrained along their length by an elastic backbone. The specific case of a two-arm sheath is considered in detail and its relationship to a concentric tube balanced pair is described. Simulation and experiment are used to investigate the concept, map its workspace and to evaluate the kinematic model.

Title: Circular and Concentric Formation of Kinematic Unicycles
Key Words: asymptotic stability  control system synthesis  distributed control  Lyapunov methods  mobile robots  multi-robot systems  position control  robot kinematics  velocity control  desired circular orbit  circular formations  concentric formations  kinematic unicycles  circular formation  concentric formation stabilization problem  design distributed control laws  common circle  velocity control law  specific formation  Kinematics  Decentralized control  Orbits  Laplace equations  Satellites  Asymptotic stability  Angular velocity 
Abstract: This paper addresses the circular formation and concentric formation stabilization problem of kinematic unicycles. We design distributed control laws driving unicycles to converge to a common circle at the first stage and a velocity control law enabling unicycles to achieve a specific formation on the circle at the second stage. We also achieve the concentric formation by dividing unicycles into groups and design distributed control laws reinforcing each group at a desired circular orbit from the stationary center. We provide analysis to show that both the circular and concentric formations are asymptotically stable using set stabilization theory. Typical examples are selected to demonstrate and support the theoretical results.

Title: Continuous signed distance computation for polygonal robots in 3D
Key Words: collision avoidance  computational geometry  humanoid robots  mobile robots  collision-free motion  HRP-2 humanoid robot  collision avoidance  minimum of the continuous distance  continuous signed distance computation  distance evaluation method  MCD  object trajectory  time interval  penetration depth  Euclidean distance  general polygonal models  distance function  adaptive subdivision method  polygonal robots 
Abstract: We propose a novel method adaptive subdivision (AS) to evaluate the distance function for moving general polygonal models. The distance function can have a positive and a negative value, each of which corresponds to the Euclidean distance and penetration depth, respectively. In our approach, the distance between a pair of objects can be evaluated along any time interval of the object's trajectory; therefore it is called “continuous”, and a minimum of the continuous distance (MCD) is determined for collision avoidance. In order to compute a MCD for general polygonal models, we calculate the upper and lower bounds of the distance in the time interval and abandons the time intervals that cannot realize the MCD. We have implemented our distance evaluation method, and have experimentally validated the proposed methods to effectively and accurately find the MCDs to generate a collision-free motion for the HRP-2 humanoid robot.

Title: Dynamics Consensus between Centroidal and Whole-Body Models for Locomotion of Legged Robots
Key Words: humanoid robots  legged locomotion  manipulator dynamics  motion control  optimal control  optimisation  pendulums  whole-body level  whole-body optimal control problem  centroidal dynamics  manipulator dynamics  effective locomotion  HRP-2 robot  dynamics consensus  legged robots  large control problem  complex optimal control problem  numerical solver  inverted pendulum  capture points  whole-body constraints  reduced level  reduced solution  centroidal state dynamics  mathematical framework  Dynamics  Legged locomotion  Trajectory  Optimization  Convex functions  Optimal control 
Abstract: It is nowadays well-established that locomotion can be written as a large and complex optimal control problem. Yet, current knowledge in numerical solver fails to directly solve it. A common approach is to cut the dimensionality by relying on reduced models (inverted pendulum, capture points, centroidal). However it is difficult both to account for whole-body constraints at the reduced level and also to define what is an acceptable trade-off at the whole-body level between tracking the reduced solution or searching for a new one. The main contribution of this paper is to introduce a rigorous mathematical framework based on the Alternating Direction Method of Multipliers, to enforce the consensus between the centroidal state dynamics at reduced and whole-body level. We propose an exact splitting of the whole-body optimal control problem between the centroidal dynamics (under-actuation) and the manipulator dynamics (full actuation), corresponding to a re-arrangement of the equations already stated in previous works. We then describe with details how alternating descent is a good solution to implement an effective locomotion solver. We validate this approach in simulation with walking experiments on the HRP-2 robot.

Title: Adaptive Bingham Distribution Based Filter for SE (3) Estimation
Key Words: adaptive filters  Gaussian distribution  pose estimation  SO(3) groups  incremental properties  Gaussian distribution  pose parameters  adaptive filtering ability  adaptive Bingham distribution  filter-based methods  autonomous tuning  SE (3) estimation  3D pose estimation problems  SO(3) group  Measurement uncertainty  Pose estimation  Uncertainty  Kalman filters  Gaussian distribution  Adaptation models 
Abstract: Filter-based methods are a suitable option to deal with the burdensome 3D pose estimation problems for their incremental properties. The classical approaches use the Gaussian distribution to model the uncertainty of the pose parameters and recent work has begun to take advantage of the Bingham distribution, which is theoretically more suitable for modeling uncertainty on the SO(3) group. However, these algorithms are still at the very beginning and heavily rely on manual tuning. In this work we equip the Bingham distribution based filter with adaptive filtering ability, which realizes completely autonomous tuning without human interaction. The experiments demonstrate that our method is significantly laborsaving compared to the state-of-the-art methods as well as capable of maintaining high accuracy.

Title: GuSTO: Guaranteed Sequential Trajectory optimization via Sequential Convex Programming
Key Words: convex programming  optimal control  GuSTO  control-affine systems  indirect optimal control  guaranteed sequential trajectory optimization  optimal control setups  SCP-based methods  theoretical convergence  sequential convex programming  algorithmic framework  Trajectory optimization  Convergence  Optimal control  Robots  Heuristic algorithms  Planning 
Abstract: Sequential Convex Programming (SCP) has recently seen a surge of interest as a tool for trajectory optimization. However, most available methods lack rigorous performance guarantees and they are often tailored to specific optimal control setups. In this paper, we present GuSTO (Guaranteed Sequential Trajectory optimization), an algorithmic framework to solve trajectory optimization problems for control-affine systems with drift. GuSTO generalizes earlier SCP-based methods for trajectory optimization (by addressing, for example, goal-set constraints and problems with either fixed or free final time) and enjoys theoretical convergence guarantees in terms of convergence to, at least, a stationary point. The theoretical analysis is further leveraged to devise an accelerated implementation of GuSTO, which originally infuses ideas from indirect optimal control into an SCP context. Numerical experiments on a variety of trajectory optimization setups show that GuSTO generally outperforms current state-of-the-art approaches in terms of success rates, solution quality, and computation times.

Title: Efficient Computation of Feedback Control for Equality-Constrained LQR
Key Words: discrete time systems  feedback  linear quadratic control  optimisation  Riccati equations  robots  feedback control  equality-constrained LQR  discrete-time finite-horizon Linear Quadratic Regulator problem  auxiliary linear equality constraints  fixed end-point constraints  standard Riccati recursion  linearly-constrained LQR problem  robotic trajectory optimization  Robots  Feedback control  Optimal control  Trajectory optimization  Computational complexity  Dynamic programming 
Abstract: A method is presented for solving the discrete-time finite-horizon Linear Quadratic Regulator (LQR) problem subject to auxiliary linear equality constraints, such as fixed end-point constraints. The method explicitly determines an affine relationship between the control and state variables, as in standard Riccati recursion, giving rise to feedback control policies that account for constraints. Since the linearly-constrained LQR problem arises commonly in robotic trajectory optimization, having a method that can efficiently compute these solutions is important. We demonstrate some of the useful properties and interpretations of said control policies, and we compare the computation time and complexity of our method against existing methods.

Title: Mitigating energy loss in a robot hopping on a physically emulated dissipative substrate
Key Words: damping  energy conservation  legged locomotion  motion control  position control  sand  mitigating energy loss  physically emulated dissipative substrate  erosion  desertification  spatial resolution  temporal resolution  data collection  attractive scout robot candidate  heavily geared sensor-laden RHex  long-distance locomotion  virtual damping force  Minitaur foot  simulated granular media  bulk-behavior force law  ground emulator  single-legged hopper  physical hopping experiments  substrate emulator  linear stiffness  quadratic damping  Minitaur robot  ground properties  bulk-behavior model  energy savings  robot hopping  physical single-legged hopper jumping  Legged locomotion  Springs  Damping  Media  Foot  Force 
Abstract: We work with geoscientists studying erosion and desertification to improve the spatial and temporal resolution of their data collection over long transects in difficult realworld environments such as deserts [1]. The Minitaur [2] robot, which can run quickly over uneven terrain and use a single leg to measure relevant ground properties such as stiffness [3], is an attractive scout robot candidate for inclusion in a heterogeneous team in collaboration with a heavily geared, sensor-laden RHex [4]. However, Minitaur is challenged by long-distance locomotion on sand dunes. Previous simulation results [5] suggested that the energetic cost of transport can be mitigated by programming a virtual damping force to slow the intrusion of a Minitaur foot into simulated granular media following a bulk-behavior force law [6]. In this paper, we present a ground emulator that can be used to test such locomotion hypotheses with a physical single-legged hopper jumping on emulated ground programmed to exhibit any compliance and damping characteristics of interest. The new emulator allows us to corroborate the conclusions of our previous simulation with physical hopping experiments. Programming the substrate emulator to exhibit the mechanics of a simplified bulk-behavior model of granular media characterized by linear stiffness and quadratic damping, we achieve a consistent energy savings of 20% in comparison with a nominal controller, with savings of up to 50% under specific conditions.

Title: Energy Efficient Navigation for Running Legged Robots
Key Words: energy conservation  energy consumption  legged locomotion  motion control  optimisation  path planning  robot dynamics  sampling methods  search problems  trajectory control  mobile robots  energy savings  energy consumption  energy efficient navigation  running legged robots  sampling-based model predictive optimization  LLAMA quadrupedal platform  heuristic-based search  robot dynamics  robot motion plan  trajectory planning  Legged locomotion  Trajectory  Computational modeling  Predictive models  Planning  Heuristic algorithms 
Abstract: Energy-efficient navigation is an important technology for mobile robots because of its potential to increase the operation time of the robot. In particular, when coupled with a dynamic legged quadruped, the need for energy savings is made more apparent as payloads are limited. Due to the complexity in modeling motion and power models of these robots, a new approach is necessary to effectively motion plan for these complex robots. We accomplish this by using Sampling-Based Model Predictive optimization (SBMPO) which was extended for use on the LLAMA quadrupedal platform in simulation. SBMPO allows for direct generation of trajectories while using a heuristic-based search to speed up computations. This approach is shown to effectively motion plan while optimizing for energy consumption and maintaining the natural dynamics of the robot in a simulated environment.

Title: Force-controllable Quadruped Robot System with Capacitive-type Joint Torque Sensor
Key Words: actuators  biomechanics  force control  gait analysis  legged locomotion  motion control  robot dynamics  torque control  force-controllable quadruped robot system  CJTS  zero-force control  walking/trot gait  capacitive-type joint torque sensor  joint torque controllability  actuator module  size 0.05 nm  size 70.0 nm  time 0.04 s  Robot sensing systems  Torque  Actuators  Legged locomotion  Torque measurement 
Abstract: This paper introduces a force-controllable quadruped robot system consists of twelve Actuator Modules embedded a novel Capacitive-type Joint Torque Sensor (CJTS) which is accurate (0.05 Nm), robust to impact, and easy to manufacture at low cost. The Actuator Module with CJTS shows accurate joint torque controllability in range of ±70 Nm (90 % settling time 0.04 s). The leg made by the three Actuator Modules is capable of generating forces in the z-axis up to 350 N and shows force control performances with zero-force control and lifting weights in three-dimensional space. To reduce the reflected limb inertia, all the Actuator Modules are located on the body frame and light-weight limbs made of the carbon pipe (3.6 % of total body weight). The introduced robot performed the motion on various terrains with walking/trot gaits.

Title: Visual Diver Recognition for Underwater Human-Robot Collaboration
Key Words: autonomous underwater vehicles  convolutional neural nets  human-robot interaction  mobile robots  multi-robot systems  object detection  pattern clustering  visual diver recognition  underwater human-robot collaboration  autonomous underwater robot  visual scene  human leader  detected bounding boxes  mobile robot  k-means clustering algorithm  feature vector  frequency domain descriptors  spatial domain descriptors  region proposal network  faster R-CNN algorithm  diver identification  multihuman-robot teams  multiple divers detection  Feature extraction  Robots  Image color analysis  Image edge detection  Visualization  Target tracking 
Abstract: This paper presents an approach for autonomous underwater robots to visually detect and identify divers. The proposed approach enables an autonomous underwater robot to detect multiple divers in a visual scene and distinguish between them. Such methods are useful for robots to identify a human leader, for example, in multi-human/robot teams where only designated individuals are allowed to command or lead a team of robots. Initial diver identification is performed using the Faster R-CNN algorithm with a region proposal network which produces bounding boxes around the divers' locations. Subsequently, a suite of spatial and frequency domain descriptors are extracted from the bounding boxes to create a feature vector. A K-Means clustering algorithm, with k set to the number of detected bounding boxes, thereafter identifies the detected divers based on these feature vectors. We evaluate the performance of the proposed approach on video footage of divers swimming in front of a mobile robot and demonstrate its accuracy.

Title: An Integrated Approach to Navigation and Control in Micro Underwater Robotics using Radio-Frequency Localization
Key Words: autonomous underwater vehicles  marine navigation  microrobots  mobile robots  position control  radio-frequency localization  microautonomous underwater vehicles  μAUVs  integrated navigation  control architecture  low-cost embedded localization module  integrated approach  underwater localization systems  microunderwater robotics  underwater way-point tracking controller  Robots  Attenuation  Navigation  Acoustics  Computer architecture  Noise measurement  Measurement uncertainty 
Abstract: Navigation and control are a largely unsolved problems for micro autonomous underwater vehicles (μAUVs). The main challenges are due to the lack of accurate underwater localization systems, which fit on-board of μAUVs. In this work, we present an integrated navigation and control architecture consisting of a low-cost embedded localization module and an underwater way-point tracking controller, which fulfills the requirements of μAUVs. The performance of the navigation and control system is benchmarked in two different experimental scenarios.

Title: Online Utility-Optimal Trajectory Design for Time-Varying Ocean Environments
Key Words: convex programming  energy consumption  gradient methods  marine engineering  mobile robots  time-varying systems  trajectory control  online utility-optimal trajectory design  time-varying ocean environments  time-varying environments  energy-efficient trajectories  strong disturbances  uncertain disturbances  time-varying goal location  constrained online convex optimization formalism  gradient descent algorithm  vehicle locations  energy consumption  regional ocean modelling system  ocean velocity measurements  Trajectory  Oceans  Planning  Convex functions  Delays  Energy consumption  Optimization 
Abstract: This paper considers the problem of online optimal trajectory design under time-varying environments. Of particular interest is the design of energy-efficient trajectories under strong and uncertain disturbances in ocean environments and time-varying goal location. We formulate the problem within the constrained online convex optimization formalism, and a modified online gradient descent algorithm is motivated. The mobility constraints are met using a carefully chosen stepsize, and the proposed algorithm is shown to incur sublinear regret. Different from the state-of-the-art algorithms that entail planning and re-planning the full trajectory using forecast data at each time instant, the proposed algorithm is entirely online and relies mostly on the current ocean velocity measurements at the vehicle locations. The trade-off between excess delay incurred in reaching the goal and the overall energy consumption is examined via numerical tests carried out on real data obtained from the regional ocean modelling system. As compared to the state-of-the-art algorithms, the proposed algorithm is not only energy-efficient but also several orders of magnitude computationally efficient.

Title: Online Continuous Mapping using Gaussian Process Implicit Surfaces
Key Words: approximation theory  Gaussian processes  mobile robots  path planning  regression analysis  implicit surface  SDF  regressor  gaussian process implicit surface  robotic tasks  signed-distance function  sparse measurements  grid-based methods  online continuous mapping  Surface treatment  Planning  Noise measurement  Training  Robot kinematics  Robot sensing systems 
Abstract: The representation of the environment strongly affects how robots can move and interact with it. This paper presents an online approach for continuous mapping using Gaussian Process Implicit Surfaces (GPISs). Compared with grid-based methods, GPIS better utilizes sparse measurements to represent the world seamlessly. It provides direct access to the signed-distance function (SDF) and its derivatives which are invaluable for other robotic tasks and it incorporates uncertainty in the sensor measurements. Our approach incrementally and efficiently updates GPIS by employing a regressor on observations and a spatial tree structure. The effectiveness of the suggested approach is demonstrated using simulations and real world 2D/3D data.

Title: Dense 3D Visual Mapping via Semantic Simplification
Key Words: data visualisation  image reconstruction  image segmentation  mesh generation  robot vision  solid modelling  semantic image segmentation  perceived point cloud  global statistics  class boundaries  infra-class edges  3D dense model  3D Delaunay Triangulation  variable point cloud density  semantic simplification  dense 3D visual mapping estimates  dense point clouds  pixel depths  point cloud simplification methods  roughly planar surface  Three-dimensional displays  Semantics  Solid modeling  Image reconstruction  Image segmentation  Structure from motion  Surface reconstruction 
Abstract: Dense 3D visual mapping estimates as many as possible pixel depths, for each image. This results in very dense point clouds that often contain redundant and noisy information, especially for surfaces that are roughly planar, for instance, the ground or the walls in the scene. In this paper we leverage on semantic image segmentation to discriminate which regions of the scene require simplification and which should be kept at high level of details. We propose four different point cloud simplification methods which decimate the perceived point cloud by relying on class-specific local and global statistics still maintaining more points in the proximity of class boundaries to preserve the infra-class edges and discontinuities. 3D dense model is obtained by fusing the point clouds in a 3D Delaunay Triangulation to deal with variable point cloud density. In the experimental evaluation we have shown that, by leveraging on semantics, it is possible to simplify the model and diminish the noise affecting the point clouds.

Title: Predicting the Layout of Partially Observed Rooms from Grid Maps
Key Words: control engineering computing  mobile robots  path planning  robot vision  SLAM (robots)  SLAM algorithms  2D metric grid map  global structure  partially observed rooms  autonomous mobile robots  indoor environments  robot sensors  geometrical primitives  Layout  Measurement  Robots  Indoor environment  Two dimensional displays  Three-dimensional displays  Feature extraction 
Abstract: In several applications, autonomous mobile robots benefit from knowing the structure of the indoor environments where they operate. This knowledge can be extracted from the metric maps built (e.g., using SLAM algorithms) from the data perceived by the robots' sensors. The layout is a way to represent the structure of an indoor environment with geometrical primitives. Most of the current methods for reconstructing the layout from a metric map represent the parts of the environment that have been fully observed. In this paper, we propose an approach that predicts the layout of rooms which are only partially known in a 2D metric grid map. The prediction is made according to the global structure of the environment, as identified from its known parts. Experiments show that our approach is able to effectively predict the layout of several indoor environments that have been observed to different degrees.

Title: Dense Surface Reconstruction from Monocular Vision and LiDAR
Key Words: cameras  graph theory  image reconstruction  mobile robots  optical radar  pipelines  robot vision  stereo image processing  surface reconstruction  LiDAR measurements  multiview stereo pipeline  watertight surface mesh  state-of-the-art camera-only  LiDAR-only reconstruction methods  monocular vision  surface reconstruction pipeline  monocular camera images  moving sensor rig  indoor scenes  indoor environments  3D mesh models  state-of-the-art multiview stereo  graph cut algorithm  Laser radar  Cameras  Three-dimensional displays  Image reconstruction  Surface reconstruction  Pipelines  Robot sensing systems 
Abstract: In this work, we develop a new surface reconstruction pipeline that combines monocular camera images and LiDAR measurements from a moving sensor rig to reconstruct dense 3D mesh models of indoor scenes. For surface reconstruction, the 3D LiDAR and camera are widely deployed for gathering geometric information from environments. Current state-of-the-art multi-view stereo or LiDAR-only reconstruction methods cannot reconstruct indoor environments accurately due to shortcomings of each sensor type. In our approach, LiDAR measurements are integrated into a multi-view stereo pipeline for point cloud densification and tetrahedralization. In addition to that, a graph cut algorithm is utilized to generate a watertight surface mesh. Because our proposed method leverages the complementary nature of these two sensors, the accuracy and completeness of the output model are improved. The experimental results on real world data show that our method significantly outperforms both the state-of-the-art camera-only and LiDAR-only reconstruction methods in accuracy and completeness.

Title: FSMI: Fast Computation of Shannon Mutual Information for Information-Theoretic Mapping
Key Words: approximation theory  gradient methods  information theory  mobile robots  multi-robot systems  FSMI algorithm  fast Shannon mutual information  Cauchy-Schwarz quadratic mutual information  information-based mapping algorithms  information-theoretic mapping  CSQMI  FSMI  Mutual information  Approximation algorithms  Robot sensing systems  Measurement  Standards  Random variables 
Abstract: Information-based mapping algorithms are critical to robot exploration tasks in several applications ranging from disaster response to space exploration. Unfortunately, most existing information-based mapping algorithms are plagued by the computational difficulty of evaluating the Shannon mutual information between potential future sensor measurements and the map. This has lead researchers to develop approximate methods, such as Cauchy-Schwarz Quadratic Mutual Information (CSQMI). In this paper, we propose a new algorithm, called Fast Shannon Mutual Information (FSMI), which is significantly faster than existing methods at computing the exact Shannon mutual information. The key insight behind FSMI is recognizing that the integral over the sensor beam can be evaluated analytically, removing an expensive numerical integration. In addition, we provide a number of approximation techniques for FSMI, which significantly improve computation time. Equipped with these approximation techniques, the FSMI algorithm is more than three orders of magnitude faster than the existing computation for Shannon mutual information; it also outperforms the CSQMI algorithm significantly, being roughly twice as fast, in our experiments.

Title: Real-time Scalable Dense Surfel Mapping
Key Words: image fusion  image reconstruction  pose estimation  SLAM (robots)  intensity images  depth images  globally consistent model  room-scale environments  urban-scale environments  RGB-D cameras  stereo cameras  monocular camera  superpixel-based surfels  reconstructed models  fast map deformation  global consistency  room-scale reconstruction  time scalable dense surfel  CPU computation  sparse SLAM system  camera poses  dense surfel mapping system  Cameras  Image reconstruction  Strain  Fuses  Robot vision systems  Simultaneous localization and mapping  Three-dimensional displays 
Abstract: In this paper, we propose a novel dense surfel mapping system that scales well in different environments with only CPU computation. Using a sparse SLAM system to estimate camera poses, the proposed mapping system can fuse intensity images and depth images into a globally consistent model. The system is carefully designed so that it can build from room-scale environments to urban-scale environments using depth images from RGB-D cameras, stereo cameras or even a monocular camera. First, superpixels extracted from both intensity and depth images are used to model surfels in the system. superpixel-based surfels make our method both runtime efficient and memory efficient. Second, surfels are further organized according to the pose graph of the SLAM system to achieve O(1) fusion time regardless of the scale of reconstructed models. Third, a fast map deformation using the optimized pose graph enables the map to achieve global consistency in real-time. The proposed surfel mapping system is compared with other state-of-the-art methods on synthetic datasets. The performances of urban-scale and room-scale reconstruction are demonstrated using the KITTI dataset [1] and autonomous aggressive flights, respectively. The code is available for the benefit of the community.

Title: Inferring Compact Representations for Efficient Natural Language Understanding of Robot Instructions
Key Words: control engineering computing  graph theory  human-robot interaction  inference mechanisms  learning (artificial intelligence)  mobile robots  natural language processing  probability  robot programming  compact environment model  perceptual classifiers  succinct instruction-specific environment representation  probabilistic graphical models  natural language symbol grounding  robot instructions  approximate inference algorithms  natural language understanding  environment-related information  human-robot interaction  compact representations  Grounding  Natural languages  Computational modeling  Adaptation models  Robots  Semantics  Task analysis 
Abstract: The speed and accuracy with which robots are able to interpret natural language is fundamental to realizing effective human-robot interaction. A great deal of attention has been paid to developing models and approximate inference algorithms that improve the efficiency of language understanding. However, existing methods still attempt to reason over a representation of the environment that is flat and unnecessarily detailed, which limits scalability. An open problem is then to develop methods capable of producing the most compact environment model sufficient for accurate and efficient natural language understanding. We propose a model that leverages environment-related information encoded within instructions to identify the subset of observations and perceptual classifiers necessary to perceive a succinct, instruction-specific environment representation. The framework uses three probabilistic graphical models trained from a corpus of annotated instructions to infer salient scene semantics, perceptual classifiers, and grounded symbols. Experimental results on two robots operating in different environments demonstrate that by exploiting the content and the structure of the instructions, our method learns compact environment representations that significantly improve the efficiency of natural language symbol grounding.

Title: Improving Grounded Natural Language Understanding through Human-Robot Dialog
Key Words: grammars  human-robot interaction  interactive systems  learning (artificial intelligence)  natural language processing  natural language understanding  human-robot dialog  virtual setting  Amazon Mechanical Turk  physical robot platform  concept grounding  language parsing  robot actions  natural language commands  end-to-end pipeline  perceptual concepts  language constructions  human environments  human commands  Semantics  Task analysis  Grounding  Natural languages  Robot sensing systems  Pipelines 
Abstract: Natural language understanding for robotics can require substantial domain- and platform-specific engineering. For example, for mobile robots to pick-and-place objects in an environment to satisfy human commands, we can specify the language humans use to issue such commands, and connect concept words like red can to physical object properties. One way to alleviate this engineering for a new domain is to enable robots in human environments to adapt dynamically-continually learning new language constructions and perceptual concepts. In this work, we present an end-to-end pipeline for translating natural language commands to discrete robot actions, and use clarification dialogs to jointly improve language parsing and concept grounding. We train and evaluate this agent in a virtual setting on Amazon Mechanical Turk, and we transfer the learned agent to a physical robot platform to demonstrate it in the real world.

Title: Prospection: Interpretable plans from language by predicting the future
Key Words: control engineering computing  learning (artificial intelligence)  natural language processing  robot programming  high-level human instructions  natural-language command  crowd-sourcing  plan fidelity  representations learning  robot agent  Task analysis  Robots  Training  Natural languages  Visualization  Planning  Predictive models 
Abstract: High-level human instructions often correspond to behaviors with multiple implicit steps. In order for robots to be useful in the real world, they must be able to to reason over both motions and intermediate goals implied by human instructions. In this work, we propose a framework for learning representations that convert from a natural-language command to a sequence of intermediate goals for execution on a robot. A key feature of this framework is prospection, training an agent not just to correctly execute the prescribed command, but to predict a horizon of consequences of an action before taking it. We demonstrate the fidelity of plans generated by our framework when interpreting real, crowd-sourced natural language commands for a robot in simulated scenes.

Title: Flight, Camera, Action! Using Natural Language and Mixed Reality to Control a Drone
Key Words: aerospace computing  autonomous aerial vehicles  control engineering computing  human-robot interaction  Markov processes  mobile robots  natural language processing  user interfaces  natural language commands  Markov decision process framework  web interface  MR interface  exploratory user study  fully autonomous language grounding  autonomous drone  natural language grounding  goal-oriented setting  mixed reality  radio-controlled controller  users control  Drones  Natural languages  Virtual reality  Robots  Task analysis  Planning  Grounding 
Abstract: With increasing autonomy, robots like drones are increasingly accessible to untrained users. Most users control drones using a low-level interface, such as a radio-controlled (RC) controller. For a wider adoption of these technologies by the public, a much higher-level interface, such as natural language or mixed reality (MR), allows the automation of the control of the agent in a goal-oriented setting. We present an interface that uses natural language grounding within an MR environment to solve high-level task and navigational instructions given to an autonomous drone. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first work to perform fully autonomous language grounding in an MR setting for a robot. Given a map, our interface first grounds natural language commands to reward specifications within a Markov Decision Process (MDP) framework. Then, it passes the reward specification to an MDP solver. Finally, the drone performs the desired operations in the real world while planning and localizing itself. Our approach uses MR to provide a set of known virtual landmarks, enabling the drone to understand commands referring to objects without being equipped with object detectors for multiple novel objects or a predefined environment model. We conducted an exploratory user study to assess users' experience of our MR interface with and without natural language, as compared to a web interface. We found that users were able to command the drone more quickly via both MR interfaces as compared to the web interface, with roughly equal system usability scores across all three interfaces.

Title: An Interactive Scene Generation Using Natural Language
Key Words: dexterous manipulators  discrete event systems  learning (artificial intelligence)  natural language processing  natural scenes  text analysis  interactive scene generation  robotic drawing  discrete event system  MSCOCO evaluation dataset  CIDEr metric  ROUGH-L metric  METEOR metric  Amazon Mechanical Turk  natural language descriptions  Layout  Dogs  Robots  Generators  Natural language processing  Semantics  Training 
Abstract: Scene generation is an important step of robotic drawing. Recent works have shown success in scene generation conditioned on text using a variety of approaches, with which the generated scenes cannot be revised after its generation. To allow modification on generated scenes, we model the scene generation process as a discrete event system. Instead of training text-to-pixel mappings using large datasets, the proposed approach uses object instances retrieved from the Internet to synthesize scenes. Evaluated on 128 experiments using MSCOCO evaluation dataset, the result shows the scene generation performance has been increased by 197%, 22.3%, and 55.7% compared with the state of the art approach on three standard metrics (CIDEr, ROUGH-L, METEOR), respectively. Human evaluation conducted on Amazon Mechanical Turk shows over 80% of generated scenes are considered to have higher recognizability and better alignment with natural language descriptions than baseline works.

Title: Efficient Generation of Motion Plans from Attribute-Based Natural Language Instructions Using Dynamic Constraint Mapping
Key Words: graph theory  human-robot interaction  learning (artificial intelligence)  mobile robots  motion control  natural language processing  optimisation  path planning  robot programming  dynamic constraint mapping  robot motion planning  dynamic grounding graph  7-DOF Fetch robot  factor graph  optimization-based motion planning  parametric constraints  attribute-based natural language instructions  motion plans  Robots  Grounding  Natural languages  Cost function  Planning  Dynamics  Heuristic algorithms 
Abstract: We present an algorithm for combining natural language processing (NLP) and fast robot motion planning to automatically generate robot movements. Our formulation uses a novel concept called Dynamic Constraint Mapping to transform complex, attribute-based natural language instructions into appropriate cost functions and parametric constraints for optimization-based motion planning. We generate a factor graph from natural language instructions called the Dynamic Grounding Graph (DGG), which takes latent parameters into account. The coefficients of this factor graph are learned based on conditional random fields (CRFs) and are used to dynamically generate the constraints for motion planning. We map the cost function directly to the motion parameters of the planner and compute smooth trajectories in dynamic scenes. We highlight the performance of our approach in a simulated environment and via a human interacting with a 7-DOF Fetch robot using intricate language commands including negation, orientation specification, and distance constraints.

Title: Safe and Fast Path Planning in Cluttered Environment using Contiguous Free-space Partitioning
Key Words: convex programming  graph theory  mobile robots  path planning  random processes  cluttered environment  contiguous free-space partitioning  convex optimization  convex navigable free-spaces  contiguous convex free-spaces  random-walk based seed generation method  contiguous navigable geometry  graph search problem  multiple query planning algorithm  fast path planning  undirected graph  safe path planning  Path planning  Planning  Ellipsoids  Robots  Data structures  Iris 
Abstract: The paper proposes a path planning algorithm for cluttered environment and maze. The proposed planning algorithm exploits the merit of convex optimization while forming the convex navigable free-spaces, ensuring safety of the vehicle. The contiguous convex free-spaces are iteratively computed from a random-walk based seed generation method to create a contiguous navigable geometry. Inside this contiguous navigable geometry an undirected graph is then created, whose each node and edge belong to at least one convex region which boils down the path planning problem into a graph search problem. In addition, the proposed multiple query planning algorithm can merge the user provided feasible initial and goal configuration with the existing undirected graph in each plan, without deteriorating the planning performance in terms of run-time and path length. Simulation and experimental results confirm the superiority of the proposed planning algorithm jointly in terms of both path length and run-time by a significant margin.

Title: Learning from Extrapolated Corrections
Key Words: control engineering computing  extrapolation  function approximation  learning (artificial intelligence)  robot programming  extrapolated corrections  cost functions  user guidance  extrapolation problem  online function approximation  function space  nonEuclidean norms  robot learning  Trajectory  Cost function  Robot kinematics  Function approximation  Kernel  Estimation 
Abstract: Our goal is to enable robots to learn cost functions from user guidance. Often it is difficult or impossible for users to provide full demonstrations, so corrections have emerged as an easier guidance channel. However, when robots learn cost functions from corrections rather than demonstrations, they have to extrapolate a small amount of information - the change of a waypoint along the way - to the rest of the trajectory. We cast this extrapolation problem as online function approximation, which exposes different ways in which the robot can interpret what trajectory the person intended, depending on the function space used for the approximation. Our simulation results and user study suggest that using function spaces with non-Euclidean norms can better capture what users intend, particularly if environments are uncluttered. This, in turn, can lead to the robot learning a more accurate cost function and improves the user's subjective perceptions of the robot.

Title: Merging Position and orientation Motion Primitives
Key Words: image motion analysis  learning (artificial intelligence)  mobile robots  motion control  path planning  position control  robot programming  stability  orientation motion primitives  complex robotic trajectories  time series  dynamical systems  merging position  stability analysis  merging sequential motion primitives  pose trajectories  Quaternions  Robots  Stability analysis  Trajectory  Task analysis  Acceleration  Clocks 
Abstract: In this paper, we focus on generating complex robotic trajectories by merging sequential motion primitives. A robotic trajectory is a time series of positions and orientations ending at a desired target. Hence, we first discuss the generation of converging pose trajectories via dynamical systems, providing a rigorous stability analysis. Then, we present approaches to merge motion primitives which represent both the position and the orientation part of the motion. Developed approaches preserve the shape of each learned movement and allow for continuous transitions among succeeding motion primitives. Presented methodologies are theoretically described and experimentally evaluated, showing that it is possible to generate a smooth pose trajectory out of multiple motion primitives.

Title: Learning Haptic Exploration Schemes for Adaptive Task Execution
Key Words: end effectors  haptic interfaces  human-robot interaction  learning (artificial intelligence)  mobile robots  robot vision  teaching  haptic exploration schemes  adaptive task execution  compliant robots  kinesthetic teaching  programming physical interactions  force data  force sensing  autonomous exploration strategies  object targeted manner  learning framework  adaptive robot  systematically changing environment  generated behavior  haptic exploration skills  relative manipulation skills  manipulation task  adaptive task structure  unseen object locations  teaching strategy  Grippers  Robot sensing systems  Task analysis  Force  Motion segmentation 
Abstract: The recent generation of compliant robots enables kinesthetic teaching of novel skills by human demonstration. This enables strategies to transfer tasks to the robot in a more intuitive way than conventional programming interfaces. Programming physical interactions can be achieved by manually guiding the robot to learn the behavior from the motion and force data. To let the robot react to changes in the environment, force sensing can be used to identify constraints and act accordingly. While autonomous exploration strategies in the whole workspace are time consuming, we propose a way to learn these schemes from human demonstrations in an object targeted manner. The presented teaching strategy and the learning framework allow to generate adaptive robot behaviors relying on the robot's sense of touch in a systematically changing environment. A generated behavior consists of a hierarchical representation of skills, where haptic exploration skills are used to touch the environment with the end effector, and relative manipulation skills, which are parameterized according to previous exploration events. The effectiveness of the approach has been proven in a manipulation task, where the adaptive task structure is able to generalize to unseen object locations. The robot autonomously manipulates objects without relying on visual feedback.

Title: Learning Motion Trajectories from Phase Space Analysis of the Demonstration
Key Words: approximation theory  dexterous manipulators  learning (artificial intelligence)  linear systems  motion control  path planning  regression analysis  trajectory control  closed form solutions  task generalization  phase space analysis  motion trajectories  kinematic based task  dynamic motion  phase space model  sequential trajectory task  energy-based analysis  linear time invariant equations  trajectory segments  linear piece-wise regression method  Trajectory  Mathematical model  Dynamics  Task analysis  Motion segmentation  Adaptation models  Space exploration 
Abstract: A major goal of learning from demonstration is task generalization via observation of a teacher. In this paper, we propose a novel framework for learning motion from a single demonstration. Our approach reconstructs the demonstrated trajectory's phase space curve via a linear piece-wise regression method. We approximate dynamics of trajectory segments with linear time invariant equations, each yielding closed form solutions. We show convergence to desired phase space states via an energy-based analysis. The robustness of the model is evaluated on a robot for a sequential trajectory task. Additionally, we show the advantages that the phase space model has over the dynamic motion primitive for a kinematic based task.

Title: I Can See Clearly Now: Image Restoration via De-Raining
Key Words: drops  image denoising  image restoration  image segmentation  learning (artificial intelligence)  rain  stereo image processing  traffic engineering computing  realrain dataset  image restoration  image reconstruction  computer-generated adherent water droplets  streaks  CamVid road marking segmentation dataset  Cityscapes semantic segmentation datasets  stereo dataset  denoising generator training  de-raining  lens  Rain  Image segmentation  Lenses  Task analysis  Computational modeling  Roads  Generators 
Abstract: We present a method for improving segmentation tasks on images affected by adherent rain drops and streaks. We introduce a novel stereo dataset recorded using a system that allows one lens to be affected by real water droplets while keeping the other lens clear. We train a denoising generator using this dataset and show that it is effective at removing the effect of real water droplets, in the context of image reconstruction and road marking segmentation. To further test our de-noising approach, we describe a method of adding computer-generated adherent water droplets and streaks to any images, and use this technique as a proxy to demonstrate the effectiveness of our model in the context of general semantic segmentation. We benchmark our results using the CamVid road marking segmentation dataset, Cityscapes semantic segmentation datasets and our own realrain dataset, and show significant improvement on all tasks.

Title: Bonnet: An Open-Source Training and Deployment Framework for Semantic Segmentation in Robotics using CNNs
Key Words: computer vision  control engineering computing  convolutional neural nets  image segmentation  learning (artificial intelligence)  public domain software  robot vision  deployment interface  existing robotics codebase  label prediction  open-source training  CNNs  semantic segmentation labels each pixel  class label  convolutional neural networks  high-quality open-source frameworks  neural network implementation  semantic segmentation task  modular approach  robotic platform  CNN approach  robotics research  open-source codebase  semantic segmentation CNN  semantic annotation  Bonnet framework  Python  TensorFlow  C++ library  Semantics  Training  C++ languages  Tools  Robot sensing systems  Hardware 
Abstract: The ability to interpret a scene is an important capability for a robot that is supposed to interact with its environment. The knowledge of what is in front of the robot is, for example, relevant for navigation, manipulation, or planning. Semantic segmentation labels each pixel of an image with a class label and thus provides a detailed semantic annotation of the surroundings to the robot. Convolutional neural networks (CNNs) are popular methods for addressing this type of problem. The available software for training and the integration of CNNs for real robots, however, is quite fragmented and often difficult to use for non-experts, despite the availability of several high-quality open-source frameworks for neural network implementation and training. In this paper, we propose a tool called Bonnet, which addresses this fragmentation problem by building a higher abstraction that is specific for the semantic segmentation task. It provides a modular approach to simplify the training of a semantic segmentation CNN independently of the used dataset and the intended task. Furthermore, we also address the deployment on a real robotic platform. Thus, we do not propose a new CNN approach in this paper. Instead, we provide a stable and easy-to-use tool to make this technology more approachable in the context of autonomous systems. In this sense, we aim at closing a gap between computer vision research and its use in robotics research. We provide an open-source codebase for training and deployment. The training interface is implemented in Python using TensorFlow and the deployment interface provides C++ library that can be easily integrated in an existing robotics codebase, a ROS node, and two standalone applications for label prediction in images and videos.

Title: Real-Time Joint Semantic Segmentation and Depth Estimation Using Asymmetric Annotations
Key Words: computer vision  image annotation  image reconstruction  image segmentation  learning (artificial intelligence)  depth estimation  asymmetric annotations  deep learning models  sensory information extractors  generic GPU cards  asymmetric datasets  real-time semantic segmentation network  floating point operations  hard knowledge distillation  dense 3D semantic reconstruction  Task analysis  Semantics  Estimation  Real-time systems  Adaptation models  Image segmentation  Robots 
Abstract: Deployment of deep learning models in robotics as sensory information extractors can be a daunting task to handle, even using generic GPU cards. Here, we address three of its most prominent hurdles, namely, i) the adaptation of a single model to perform multiple tasks at once (in this work, we consider depth estimation and semantic segmentation crucial for acquiring geometric and semantic understanding of the scene), while ii) doing it in real-time, and iii) using asymmetric datasets with uneven numbers of annotations per each modality. To overcome the first two issues, we adapt a recently proposed real-time semantic segmentation network, making changes to further reduce the number of floating point operations. To approach the third issue, we embrace a simple solution based on hard knowledge distillation under the assumption of having access to a powerful `teacher' network. We showcase how our system can be easily extended to handle more tasks, and more datasets, all at once, performing depth estimation and segmentation both indoors and outdoors with a single model. Quantitatively, we achieve results equivalent to (or better than) current state-of-the-art approaches with one forward pass costing just 13ms and 6.5 GFLOPs on 640×480 inputs. This efficiency allows us to directly incorporate the raw predictions of our network into the SemanticFusion framework [1] for dense 3D semantic reconstruction of the scene.

Title: Semantic Mapping for View-Invariant Relocalization
Key Words: cameras  feature extraction  image representation  object detection  pose estimation  robot vision  SLAM (robots)  semantic mapping  view-invariant relocalization  accurate local tracking  view-invariant object-driven relocalization  sampling-based approach  2D bounding box object detections  view-invariant representation  camera relocalization  view-invariance  relocalization rate  visual simultaneous localization and mapping  object landmarks  local appearance-based features  SLAM  3D pose  SIFT  mean rotational error  Three-dimensional displays  Cameras  Simultaneous localization and mapping  Semantics  Two dimensional displays  Visualization  Task analysis 
Abstract: We propose a system for visual simultaneous localization and mapping (SLAM) that combines traditional local appearance-based features with semantically meaningful object landmarks to achieve both accurate local tracking and highly view-invariant object-driven relocalization. Our mapping process uses a sampling-based approach to efficiently infer the 3D pose of object landmarks from 2D bounding box object detections. These 3D landmarks then serve as a view-invariant representation which we leverage to achieve camera relocalization even when the viewing angle changes by more than 125 degrees. This level of view-invariance cannot be attained by local appearance-based features (e.g. SIFT) since the same set of surfaces are not even visible when the viewpoint changes significantly. Our experiments show that even when existing methods fail completely for viewpoint changes of more than 70 degrees, our method continues to achieve a relocalization rate of around 90%, with a mean rotational error of around 8 degrees.

Title: Automatic Targeting of Plant Cells via Cell Segmentation and Robust Scene-Adaptive Tracking
Key Words: biology computing  botany  cellular biophysics  image segmentation  micromanipulators  needles  robot vision  plant cell manipulation  plant cell centroids  automatic targeting  robust scene-adaptive tracking  cell segmentation method  plant cell detection  plant cell localization  template tracking  manipulator trajectory  score-based normalized weighted averaging  microneedle tracking  visual tracking  plant biology  Visualization  Target tracking  Image segmentation  Motion segmentation  Trajectory  Uncertainty 
Abstract: Automatic targeting of plant cells to perform tasks like extraction of chloroplast is often desired in the study of plant biology. Hence, this paper proposes an improved cell segmentation method combined with a robust tracking algorithm for vision-guided micromanipulation in plant cells. The objective of this work is to develop an automatic plant cell detection and localization technique to complete the automated workflow for plant cell manipulation. The complex structural properties of plant cells make both segmentation of cells and visual tracking of the microneedle immensely challenging, unlike single animal cell applications. Thus, an improved version of watershed segmentation with adaptive thresholding is proposed to detect the plant cells without the need for staining of the cells or additional tedious preparations. To manipulate the needle to reach the identified centroid of the cells, tracking of the needle tip is required. Visual and motion information from two data sources namely, template tracking and projected manipulator trajectory are combined using score-based normalized weighted averaging to continuously track the microneedle. The selection of trackers is influenced by their complementary nature as the former and latter are individually robust against physical and visual uncertainties, respectively. Experimental results validate the effectiveness of the proposed method by detecting plant cell centroids accurately, tracking the microneedle constantly and reaching the plant cell of interest despite the presence of visual disturbances.

Title: Real-Time Monocular Object-Model Aware Sparse SLAM
Key Words: cameras  convolutional neural nets  feature extraction  learning (artificial intelligence)  mobile robots  object detection  robot vision  SLAM (robots)  mobile robotics  sparse point-based SLAM methods  CNN-based plane detector  semantic SLAM  simultaneous localization and mapping  camera localization  deep-learned object detector  CNN network  semantic objects representation  monocular object-model aware sparse SLAM framework  Simultaneous localization and mapping  Semantics  Image reconstruction  Real-time systems  Cameras  Three-dimensional displays 
Abstract: Simultaneous Localization And Mapping (SLAM) is a fundamental problem in mobile robotics. While sparse point-based SLAM methods provide accurate camera localization, the generated maps lack semantic information. On the other hand, state of the art object detection methods provide rich information about entities present in the scene from a single image. This work incorporates a real-time deep-learned object detector to the monocular SLAM framework for representing generic objects as quadrics that permit detections to be seamlessly integrated while allowing the real-time performance. Finer reconstruction of an object, learned by a CNN network, is also incorporated and provides a shape prior for the quadric leading further refinement. To capture the structure of the scene, additional planar landmarks are detected by a CNN-based plane detector and modelled as independent landmarks in the map. Extensive experiments support our proposed inclusion of semantic objects and planar structures directly in the bundle-adjustment of SLAM - Semantic SLAM- that enriches the reconstructed map semantically, while significantly improving the camera localization.

Title: Probabilistic Projective Association and Semantic Guided Relocalization for Dense Reconstruction
Key Words: convolutional neural nets  image coding  image recognition  image reconstruction  image representation  image retrieval  image segmentation  object detection  probability  robot vision  SLAM (robots)  convolutional neural networks  geometric quality  probabilistic projective association  loop frames  2D labeling  CNN  semantic prediction  simultaneous localization and mapping system  SLAM system  3D scenes  randomized ferns  semantic recognition  geometric reconstruction  loop detection  reconstruction pipeline  semantic information  camera trajectory estimation  semantic labels  real-time dense mapping system  dense reconstruction  semantic guided relocalization  Semantics  Probabilistic logic  Labeling  Two dimensional displays  Cameras  Tracking loops  Trajectory 
Abstract: We present a real-time dense mapping system which uses the predicted 2D semantic labels for optimizing the geometric quality of reconstruction. With a combination of Convolutional Neural Networks (CNNs) for 2D labeling and a Simultaneous Localization and Mapping (SLAM) system for camera trajectory estimation, recent approaches have succeeded in incrementally fusing and labeling 3D scenes. However, the geometric quality of the reconstruction can be further improved by incorporating such semantic prediction results, which is not sufficiently exploited by existing methods. In this paper, we propose to use semantic information to improve two crucial modules in the reconstruction pipeline, namely tracking and loop detection, for obtaining mutual benefits in geometric reconstruction and semantic recognition. Specifically for tracking, we use a novel probabilistic projective association approach to efficiently pick out candidate correspondences, where the confidence of these correspondences is quantified concerning similarities on all available short-term invariant features. For the loop detection, we incorporate these semantic labels into the original encoding through Randomized Ferns to generate a more comprehensive representation for retrieving candidate loop frames. Evaluations on a publicly available synthetic dataset have shown the effectiveness of our approach that considers such semantic hints as a reliable feature for achieving higher geometric quality.

Title: MRS-VPR: a multi-resolution sampling based global visual place recognition method
Key Words: image filtering  image matching  image recognition  image resolution  image sampling  image sequences  mobile robots  navigation  object recognition  particle filtering (numerical methods)  path planning  robot vision  SLAM (robots)  global visual place recognition method  multiresolution sampling  particle filter-based global sampling scheme  matching efficiency  brute-force sequential matching method  long-term localization  long-term visual navigation tasks  loop closure detection  MRS-VPR  SeqSLAM  Testing  Feature extraction  Indexes  Task analysis  Trajectory  Visualization  Robots 
Abstract: Place recognition and loop closure detection are challenging for long-term visual navigation tasks. SeqSLAM is considered to be one of the most successful approaches to achieve long-term localization under varying environmental conditions and changing viewpoints. SeqSLAM uses a brute-force sequential matching method, which is computationally intensive. In this work, we introduce a multi-resolution sampling-based global visual place recognition method (MRS-VPR), which can significantly improve the matching efficiency and accuracy in sequential matching. The novelty of this method lies in the coarse-to-fine searching pipeline and a particle filter-based global sampling scheme, that can balance the matching efficiency and accuracy in the long-term navigation task. Moreover, our model works much better than SeqSLAM when the testing sequence is over a much smaller time scale than the reference sequence. Our experiments demonstrate that MRSVPR is efficient in locating short temporary trajectories within long-term reference ones without compromising on the accuracy compared to SeqSLAM.

Title: Robust low-overlap 3-D point cloud registration for outlier rejection
Key Words: feature extraction  image registration  iterative methods  Markov processes  stereo image processing  hidden Markov random field model  iterative closest point algorithm  outlier rejection  3D point cloud registration  Hidden Markov models  Three-dimensional displays  Cloud computing  Probabilistic logic  Robot sensing systems  Solid modeling  Measurement 
Abstract: When registering 3-D point clouds it is expected that some points in one cloud do not have corresponding points in the other cloud. These non-correspondences are likely to occur near one another, as surface regions visible from one sensor pose are obscured or out of frame for another. In this work, a hidden Markov random field model is used to capture this prior within the framework of the iterative closest point algorithm. The EM algorithm is used to estimate the distribution parameters and learn the hidden component memberships. Experiments are presented demonstrating that this method outperforms several other outlier rejection methods when the point clouds have low or moderate overlap.

Title: Generalized Controllers in POMDP Decision-Making
Key Words: decision making  Markov processes  nonlinear programming  robots  controller family policy  finite state controller  generalized controller policies  POMDP model  customized POMDP policy form  belief-integrated FSC  vanilla FSC-based policy form  POMDP robotic solutions  generalized controllers  POMDP decision-making  general policy formulation  partially observable Markov decision processes  nonlinear programming  Power capacitors  Mathematical model  Robots  Approximation algorithms  Markov processes  Process control  Navigation 
Abstract: We present a general policy formulation for partially observable Markov decision processes (POMDPs) called controller family policies that may be used as a framework to facilitate the design of new policy forms. We prove how modern approximate policy forms: point-based, finite state controller (FSC), and belief compression, are instances of this family of generalized controller policies. Our analysis provides a deeper understanding of the POMDP model and suggests novel ways to design POMDP solutions that can combine the benefits of different state-of-the-art methods. We illustrate this capability by creating a new customized POMDP policy form called the belief-integrated FSC (BI-FSC) tailored to overcome the shortcomings of a state-of-the-art algorithm that uses non-linear programming (NLP). Specifically, experiments show that for NLP the BI-FSC offers improved performance over a vanilla FSC-based policy form on benchmark domains. Furthermore, we demonstrate the BI-FSC's execution on a real robot navigating in a maze environment. Results confirm the value of using the controller family policy as a framework to design customized policies in POMDP robotic solutions.

Title: Continuous Value Iteration (CVI) Reinforcement Learning and Imaginary Experience Replay (IER) For Learning Multi-Goal, Continuous Action and State Space Controllers
Key Words: iterative methods  learning (artificial intelligence)  optimal control  state-space methods  continuous action  state space controllers  goal space  optimal value functions  nonparametric estimators  multiple arbitrary goals  real-world voltage controlled robot  nonobservable Cartesian task space  multigoal  model-free reinforcement learning algorithm  Aerospace electronics  Robot kinematics  Task analysis  Trajectory  Mathematical model  Voltage control 
Abstract: This paper presents a novel model-free Reinforcement Learning algorithm for learning behavior in continuous action, state, and goal spaces. The algorithm approximates optimal value functions using non-parametric estimators. It is able to efficiently learn to reach multiple arbitrary goals in deterministic and nondeterministic environments. To improve generalization in the goal space, we propose a novel sample augmentation technique. Using these methods, robots learn faster and overall better controllers. We benchmark the proposed algorithms using simulation and a real-world voltage controlled robot that learns to maneuver in a non-observable Cartesian task space.

Title: iX-BSP: Belief Space Planning through Incremental Expectation
Key Words: computational complexity  mobile robots  path planning  statistical analysis  robotics replanning  statistical simulation  incremental expectation calculations  planning session  computational complexity  belief space planning  iX-BSP  Planning  Current measurement  Robots  Uncertainty  History  Time measurement  Linear programming 
Abstract: Belief space planning (BSP) is a fundamental problem in robotics. Determining an optimal action quickly grows intractable as it involves calculating the expected accumulated cost (reward), where the expectation accounts for all future measurement realizations. State of the art approaches therefore resort to simplifying assumptions and approximations to reduce computational complexity. Importantly, while in robotics re-planning is essential, these approaches calculate each planning session from scratch. In this work we contribute a novel approach, iX-BSP, that is based on the key insight that calculations in consecutive planning sessions are similar in nature and can be thus re-used. Our approach performs incremental calculation of the expectation by appropriately re-using computations already performed in a precursory planing session while accounting for the information obtained in inference between the two planning sessions. The formulation of our approach considers general distributions and accounts for data association aspects. We evaluate iX-BSP in statistical simulation and show that incremental expectation calculations significantly reduce runtime without impacting performance.

Title: What am I touching? Learning to classify terrain via haptic sensing
Key Words: control engineering computing  haptic interfaces  image classification  learning (artificial intelligence)  legged locomotion  pattern clustering  robot vision  terrain mapping  haptic sensing  mobile robots  real-world outdoors applications  robot control  optimal terrain negotiation  terrain classification  terrain identification  legged robot foot  fixed-length step  controlled environment  clustering method  robot perception  machine learning  Legged locomotion  Robot sensing systems  Computer architecture  Convolution  Force  Foot 
Abstract: Mobile robots are becoming very popular in real-world outdoors applications, where there are many challenges in robot control and perception. One of the most critical problems is to characterise the terrain traversed by the robot. This knowledge is indispensable for optimal terrain negotiation. Currently, most approaches are performing terrain classification from vision, but there is not enough research on terrain identification from a direct interaction of the robot with the environment. In our work, we proposed new methods for classification of force/torque data from an interaction of the legged robot foot with the ground, gathered during the walking process. We provided machine learning methods for terrain classification from raw force/torque signals for which we achieved 93% accuracy on a challenging dataset with 160 minutes of recorded fixed-length steps. We also worked on a dataset where the assumption of a fixed-length step is not valid. In this case, the final result is around 80% of accuracy. The most important fact is that the data in both cases was recorded while the robot was walking, no particular movements or controlled environment were needed. Additionally, we also proposed a clustering method which allows us to learn about the class membership based on the recorded data only, without any human supervision.

Title: Multi-Object Search using Object-Oriented POMDPs
Key Words: Markov processes  mobile robots  Monte Carlo methods  path planning  object-oriented POMDPs  OO-POMDP  observable Markov decision process  object-oriented partially observable Monte-Carlo planning  multiobject search task  sequential decision making  mobile robot  Task analysis  Uncertainty  Search problems  Robot sensing systems  Planning  Object oriented modeling 
Abstract: A core capability of robots is to reason about multiple objects under uncertainty. Partially Observable Markov Decision Processes (POMDPs) provide a means of reasoning under uncertainty for sequential decision making, but are computationally intractable in large domains. In this paper, we propose Object-Oriented POMDPs (OO-POMDPs), which represent the state and observation spaces in terms of classes and objects. The structure afforded by OO-POMDPs support a factorization of the agent's belief into independent object distributions, which enables the size of the belief to scale linearly versus exponentially in the number of objects. We formulate a novel Multi-Object Search (MOS) task as an OO-POMDP for mobile robotics domains in which the agent must find the locations of multiple objects. Our solution exploits the structure of OO-POMDPs by featuring human language to selectively update the belief at task onset. Using this structure, we develop a new algorithm for efficiently solving OO-POMDPs: Object-Oriented Partially Observable Monte-Carlo Planning (OOPOMCP). We show that OO-POMCP with grounded language commands is sufficient for solving challenging MOS tasks both in simulation and on a physical mobile robot.

Title: Depth Generation Network: Estimating Real World Depth from Stereo and Depth Images*
Key Words: image colour analysis  learning (artificial intelligence)  stereo image processing  Depth Generation Network  real world Depth  dense depth estimation  deep-learning technique  stereo RGB images  stereo pairs  depth ground-truth  stereo setting parameters  image pairs  supervision learning  synthetic depth maps  relative dense depth  stereo geometric settings  optic settings  epipolar geometric cues  DGN  falling things dataset  variational method  Training  Estimation  Three-dimensional displays  Data models  Fats  Cameras  Robots 
Abstract: In this work, we propose the Depth Generation Network (DGN) to address the problem of dense depth estimation by exploiting the variational method and the deep-learning technique. In particular, we focus on improving the feasibility of depth estimation under complex scenarios given stereo RGB images, where the stereo pairs and/or depth ground-truth captured by real sensors may be deteriorated; the stereo setting parameters may be unavailable or unreliable, hence hamper efforts to establish the correspondence between image pairs via supervision learning or epipolar geometric cues. Instead of relying on real data, we supervise the training of our model using synthetic depth maps generated by the simulator, which deliver complex scenes and reliable data with ease. Two non-trivial challenges, i.e., (i) attaining reasonable amount yet realistic samples for training, and (ii) developing a model that adapts to both synthetic and real scenes arise, whereas in this work we mainly deal with the later one yet leveraging state-of-the-art Falling Things (FAT) dataset to overcome the first. Experiments on FAT and KITTI datasets demonstrate that our model estimates relative dense depth in fine details, potentially generalizable to real scenes without knowing the stereo geometric and optic settings.

Title: Multi-Task Template Matching for Object Detection, Segmentation and Pose Estimation Using Depth Images
Key Words: image colour analysis  image matching  image sampling  image segmentation  object detection  pose estimation  MultiTask Template Matching  object detection  pose estimation  color images  target object  segmentation masks  object region  texture-less objects  Training  Pose estimation  Feature extraction  Task analysis  Image segmentation  Robots  Solid modeling 
Abstract: Template matching has been shown to accurately estimate the pose of a new object given a limited number of samples. However, pose estimation of occluded objects is still challenging. Furthermore, many robot application domains encounter texture-less objects for which depth images are more suitable than color images. In this paper, we propose a novel framework, Multi-Task Template Matching (MTTM), that finds the nearest template of a target object from a depth image while predicting segmentation masks and a pose transformation between the template and a detected object in the scene using the same feature map of the object region. The proposed feature comparison network computes segmentation masks and pose predictions by comparing feature maps of templates and cropped features of a scene. The segmentation result from this network improves the robustness of the pose estimation by excluding points that do not belong to the object. Experimental results show that MTTM outperforms baseline methods for segmentation and pose estimation of occluded objects despite using only depth images.

Title: A Clustering Approach to Categorizing 7 Degree-of-Freedom Arm Motions during Activities of Daily Living
Key Words: image motion analysis  motion average  recorded motions  on-table motion  clustering methodology  K-medoids clustering  clustering approach  naturalistic human arm motions  clustering techniques  heuristic interpretation  unsupervised approach  hierarchical description  natural human motion  task achievement  semiautonomous prosthetic device applications  motion segments  DTW barycenter averaging  Task analysis  Motion segmentation  Protocols  Elbow  Wrist  Prosthetics  Trajectory 
Abstract: In this paper we present a novel method of categorizing naturalistic human arm motions during activities of daily living using clustering techniques. While many current approaches attempt to define all arm motions using heuristic interpretation, or a combination of several abstract motion primitives, our unsupervised approach generates a hierarchical description of natural human motion with well recognized groups. Reliable recommendation of a subset of motions for task achievement is beneficial to various fields, such as robotic and semi-autonomous prosthetic device applications. The proposed method makes use of well-known techniques such as dynamic time warping (DTW) to obtain a divergence measure between motion segments, DTW barycenter averaging (DBA) to get a motion average, and Ward's distance criterion to build the hierarchical tree. The clusters that emerge summarize the variety of recorded motions into the following general tasks: reach-to-front, transfer-box, drinking from vessel, on-table motion, turning a key or door knob, and reach-to-back pocket. The clustering methodology is justified by comparing against an alternative measure of divergence using Bezier coefficients and K-medoids clustering.

Title: Factored Pose Estimation of Articulated Objects using Efficient Nonparametric Belief Propagation
Key Words: belief networks  industrial manipulators  Markov processes  message passing  mobile robots  pose estimation  random processes  robot vision  uncertainty handling  articulated objects  articulation constraint  continuous pose variable  robot perception  PMPNBP  pull message passing algorithm for nonparametric belief propagation  hidden node model  pairwise Markov random field  pairwise MRF  object-part pose beliefs  3D sensor data  geometrical models  nonparametric belief propagation algorithm  multimodal uncertainty  perception problem  high-dimensional continuous space  human environments  factored pose estimation  Robot sensing systems  Belief propagation  Pose estimation  Three-dimensional displays  Quaternions  Kinematics 
Abstract: Robots working in human environments often encounter a wide range of articulated objects, such as tools, cabinets, and other jointed objects. Such articulated objects can take an infinite number of possible poses, as a point in a potentially high-dimensional continuous space. A robot must perceive this continuous pose in order to manipulate the object to a desired pose. This problem of perception and manipulation of articulated objects remains a challenge due to its high dimensionality and multi-modal uncertainty. In this paper, we propose a factored approach to estimate the poses of articulated objects using an efficient non-parametric belief propagation algorithm. We consider inputs as geometrical models with articulation constraints, and observed 3D sensor data. The proposed framework produces object-part pose beliefs iteratively. The problem is formulated as a pairwise Markov Random Field (MRF) where each hidden node (continuous pose variable) models an observed object-part's pose and each edge denotes an articulation constraint between a pair of parts. We propose articulated pose estimation by a Pull Message Passing algorithm for Nonparametric Belief Propagation (PMPNBP) and evaluate its convergence properties over scenes with articulated objects.

Title: Domain Randomization for Active Pose Estimation
Key Words: image sequences  image texture  neural nets  pose estimation  domain randomization  active pose estimation  robotic control  robotic manipulation tasks  robot trains  domain-randomized simulation  Pose estimation  Cameras  Predictive models  Three-dimensional displays  Robot vision systems  Task analysis 
Abstract: Accurate state estimation is a fundamental component of robotic control. In robotic manipulation tasks, as is our focus in this work, state estimation is essential for identifying the positions of objects in the scene, forming the basis of the manipulation plan. However, pose estimation typically requires expensive 3D cameras or additional instrumentation such as fiducial markers to perform accurately. Recently, Tobin et al. introduced an approach to pose estimation based on domain randomization, where a neural network is trained to predict pose directly from a 2D image of the scene. The network is trained on computer generated images with a high variation in textures and lighting, thereby generalizing to real world images. In this work, we investigate how to improve the accuracy of domain randomization based pose estimation. Our main idea is that active perception - moving the robot to get a better estimate of pose- can be trained in simulation and transferred to real using domain randomization. In our approach, the robot trains in a domain-randomized simulation how to estimate pose from a sequence of images. We show that our approach can significantly improve the accuracy of standard pose estimation in several scenarios: when the robot holding an object moves, when reference objects are moved in the scene, or when the camera is moved around the object.

Title: GraspFusion: Realizing Complex Motion by Learning and Fusing Grasp Modalities with Instance Segmentation
Key Words: grippers  image fusion  image matching  image segmentation  learning (artificial intelligence)  object detection  deep learning  multimodal grippers  simultaneous pinch  multimodal grasp fusion  object-class-agnostic grasp  modality detection  object-class-agnostic instance segmentation  grasp template matching  object manipulation  object geometry  grasp modalities  instance segmentation  integrated system  Image segmentation  Grippers  Grasping  Motion segmentation  Image color analysis  Task analysis 
Abstract: Recent progress of deep learning improved the capability of a robot to find a proper grasp of a novel object for different grasp modalities (e.g., pinch and suction). While these previous studies consider multiple modalities separately, several studies develop multi-modal grippers that can achieve simultaneous pinch and suction grasp (multi-modal grasp fusion) for more capable and stable object manipulation. However, the previous studies with these grippers restrict the situations: simple object geometry and uncluttered environments. To overcome these difficulties, we propose a system that consists of: 1) object-class-agnostic grasp modality detection; 2) object-class-agnostic instance segmentation; and 3) grasp template matching for different modalities. The key idea of our work is the introduction of instance segmentation to fuse multiple modalities regarding each instance eluding a grasp of multiple objects at once. In the experiments, we evaluated the proposed system on the real-world picking task in clutter. The experimental results show that the effectiveness of modality detection, instance segmentation, and the integrated system as a whole.

Title: Factored Contextual Policy Search with Bayesian optimization
Key Words: learning (artificial intelligence)  robots  search problems  truly complex tasks  locally learned policies  data-efficient learning  parametric context space  contextual policy representation  target contexts  task objectives  target position  environment contexts  contextual policy search algorithms  Bayesian optimization approach  active learning settings  faster learning  factored contextual policy search  scarce data  task contexts  Task analysis  Trajectory  Optimization  Bayes methods  Robot kinematics  Entropy 
Abstract: Scarce data is a major challenge to scaling robot learning to truly complex tasks, as we need to generalize locally learned policies over different task contexts. Contextual policy search offers data-efficient learning and generalization by explicitly conditioning the policy on a parametric context space. In this paper, we further structure the contextual policy representation. We propose to factor contexts into two components: target contexts that describe the task objectives, e.g. target position for throwing a ball; and environment contexts that characterize the environment, e.g. initial position or mass of the ball. Our key observation is that experience can be directly generalized over target contexts. We show that this can be easily exploited in contextual policy search algorithms. In particular, we apply factorization to a Bayesian optimization approach to contextual policy search both in sampling-based and active learning settings. Our simulation results show faster learning and better generalization in various robotic domains. See our supplementary video: https://youtu.be/IIJTbBAOufDY.

Title: Structured Domain Randomization: Bridging the Reality Gap by Context-Aware Synthetic Data
Key Words: computer vision  neural nets  object detection  probability  synthetic SDR data  structured domain randomization  context-aware synthetic data  uniform probability distribution  SDR places objects  probability distributions  SDR-generated imagery  2D bounding box car detection  Splines (mathematics)  Roads  Object oriented modeling  Automobiles  Object detection  Neural networks  Two dimensional displays 
Abstract: We present structured domain randomization (SDR), a variant of domain randomization (DR) that takes into account the structure of the scene in order to add context to the generated data. In contrast to DR, which places objects and distractors randomly according to a uniform probability distribution, SDR places objects and distractors randomly according to probability distributions that arise from the specific problem at hand. In this manner, SDR-generated imagery enables the neural network to take the context around an object into consideration during detection. We demonstrate the power of SDR for the problem of 2D bounding box car detection, achieving competitive results on real data after training only on synthetic data. On the KITTI easy, moderate, and hard tasks, we show that SDR outperforms other approaches to generating synthetic data (VKITTI, Sim 200k, or DR), as well as real data collected in a different domain (BDD100K). Moreover, synthetic SDR data combined with real KITTI data outperforms real KITTI data alone.

Title: Probabilistic Active Filtering for Object Search in Clutter
Key Words: Gaussian processes  graph theory  grippers  image filtering  learning (artificial intelligence)  probability  robot vision  search problems  complex state-action space  Gaussian process active filtering strategy  object search  state dynamics  object search problem  large-scale model  heavy occlusions  clutter  probabilistic active filtering  Search problems  Training  Robots  Task analysis  Probabilistic logic  Clutter  Uncertainty 
Abstract: This paper proposes a probabilistic approach for object search in clutter. Due to heavy occlusions, it is vital for an agent to be able to gradually reduce uncertainty in observations of the objects in its workspace by systematically rearranging them. Probabilistic methodologies present a promising sample-efficient alternative to handle the massively complex state-action space that inherently comes with this problem, avoiding the need for both exhaustive training samples and the accompanying heuristics for traversing a large-scale model during runtime. We approach the object search problem by extending a Gaussian Process active filtering strategy with an additional model for capturing state dynamics as the objects are moved over the course of the activity. This allows viable models to be built upon relatively scarce training data, while the complexity of the action space is also reduced by shifting objects over relatively short distances. Validation in both simulation and with a real Baxter robot with a limited number of training samples demonstrates the efficacy of the proposed approach.

Title: Robust 3D Object Classification by Combining Point Pair Features and Graph Convolution
Key Words: convolutional neural nets  feature extraction  graph theory  image classification  image matching  image reconstruction  learning (artificial intelligence)  object classification  vital semantic information  high-level tasks  point pair features  modern deep learning methods  discriminative features  graph convolutional networks  Stanford 3D indoor dataset  robust 3D object classification  Three-dimensional displays  Deep learning  Feature extraction  Solid modeling  Sensors  Robots  Convolution 
Abstract: Object classification is an important capability for robots as it provides vital semantic information that underpin most practical high-level tasks. Classic handcrafted features, such as point pair features, have demonstrated their robustness for this task. Combining these features with modern deep learning methods provide discriminative features that are rotation invariant and robust to various sources of noise. In this work, we aim to improve the descriptiveness of point pair features while retaining their robustness. We propose a method to achieve more structured sampling of pairs and combine this information through the use of graph convolutional networks. We introduce a novel attention model based on a repeatable local reference frame. Experiments show that our approach significantly improves the state of the art for object classification on large scale reconstruction such as the Stanford 3D indoor dataset and ScanNet and obtains competitive accuracy on the artificial dataset ModelNet.

Title: Discrete Rotation Equivariance for Point Cloud Recognition
Key Words: feature extraction  image recognition  learning (artificial intelligence)  discrete rotation equivariance  point cloud recognition  point clouds  deep networks  deep learning architecture  rotation group  rotated inputs  point cloud based networks  Three-dimensional displays  Two dimensional displays  Task analysis  Feature extraction  Robots  Deep learning  Computer architecture 
Abstract: Despite the recent active research on processing point clouds with deep networks, few attention has been on the sensitivity of the networks to rotations. In this paper, we propose a deep learning architecture that achieves discrete SO(2)/SO(3) rotation equivariance for point cloud recognition. Specifically, the rotation of an input point cloud with elements of a rotation group is similar to shuffling the feature vectors generated by our approach. The equivariance is easily reduced to invariance by eliminating the permutation with operations such as maximum or average. Our method can be directly applied to any existing point cloud based networks, resulting in significant improvements in their performance for rotated inputs. We show state-of-the-art results in the classification tasks with various datasets under both SO(2) and SO(3) rotations. In addition, we further analyze the necessary conditions of applying our approach to PointNet [1] based networks.

Title: MVX-Net: Multimodal VoxelNet for 3D Object Detection
Key Words: cameras  image colour analysis  image fusion  learning (artificial intelligence)  neural nets  object detection  stereo image processing  MVX-net  multimodal VoxelNet  3D object detection  neural network architectures  point cloud data  point cloud modalities  state-of-the-art multimodal algorithms  3D detection categories  simple single stage network  early-fusion approach  VoxelNet architecture  PointFusion  VoxelFusion  RGB modalities  KITTI dataset  birds eye view  Three-dimensional displays  Two dimensional displays  Feature extraction  Laser radar  Object detection  Proposals  Fuses 
Abstract: Many recent works on 3D object detection have focused on designing neural network architectures that can consume point cloud data. While these approaches demonstrate encouraging performance, they are typically based on a single modality and are unable to leverage information from other modalities, such as a camera. Although a few approaches fuse data from different modalities, these methods either use a complicated pipeline to process the modalities sequentially, or perform late-fusion and are unable to learn interaction between different modalities at early stages. In this work, we present PointFusion and VoxelFusion: two simple yet effective early-fusion approaches to combine the RGB and point cloud modalities, by leveraging the recently introduced VoxelNet architecture. Evaluation on the KITTI dataset demonstrates significant improvements in performance over approaches which only use point cloud data. Furthermore, the proposed method provides results competitive with the state-of-the-art multimodal algorithms, achieving top-2 ranking in five of the six birds eye view and 3D detection categories on the KITTI benchmark, by using a simple single stage network.

Title: Segmenting Unknown 3D Objects from Real Depth Images using Mask R-CNN Trained on Synthetic Data
Key Words: CAD  convolutional neural nets  image coding  image colour analysis  image enhancement  image resolution  image segmentation  learning (artificial intelligence)  masks  object tracking  category-agnostic instance segmentation  hand-labeled data  object tracking  automated dataset generation  network training  computer vision research  RGB imaging  synthetic depth data sensors  unknown object segmentation  SD mask R-CNN  high-resolution synthetic depth imaging  synthetic depth mask R-CNN  unknown 3D object segmentation  3D CAD models  domain randomization  point cloud clustering baselines  COCO benchmarks  hand-labeled RGB datasets  instance-specific grasping pipeline  synthetic training dataset  Image segmentation  Training  Solid modeling  Three-dimensional displays  Robots  Cameras  Grasping 
Abstract: The ability to segment unknown objects in depth images has potential to enhance robot skills in grasping and object tracking. Recent computer vision research has demonstrated that Mask R-CNN can be trained to segment specific categories of objects in RGB images when massive hand-labeled datasets are available. As generating these datasets is time-consuming, we instead train with synthetic depth images. Many robots now use depth sensors, and recent results suggest training on synthetic depth data can transfer successfully to the real world. We present a method for automated dataset generation and rapidly generate a synthetic training dataset of 50,000 depth images and 320,000 object masks using simulated heaps of 3D CAD models. We train a variant of Mask R-CNN with domain randomization on the generated dataset to perform category-agnostic instance segmentation without any hand-labeled data and we evaluate the trained network, which we refer to as Synthetic Depth (SD) Mask R-CNN, on a set of real, high-resolution depth images of challenging, densely-cluttered bins containing objects with highly-varied geometry. SD Mask R-CNN outperforms point cloud clustering baselines by an absolute 15% in Average Precision and 20% in Average Recall on COCO benchmarks, and achieves performance levels similar to a Mask R-CNN trained on a massive, hand-labeled RGB dataset and fine-tuned on real images from the experimental setup. We deploy the model in an instance-specific grasping pipeline to demonstrate its usefulness in a robotics application. Code, the synthetic training dataset, and supplementary material are available at https://bit.ly/2letCuE.

Title: Multi-Modal Geometric Learning for Grasping and Manipulation
Key Words: computational geometry  control engineering computing  convolutional neural nets  learning (artificial intelligence)  manipulators  solid modelling  multimodal geometric learning  robotic manipulation tasks  3D convolutional neural network  captured depth information  object geometry  visual-tactile approaches  3D models  tactile information  geometric prediction  geometric reasoning  Geometry  Robot sensing systems  Three-dimensional displays  Shape  Training  Grasping 
Abstract: This work provides an architecture that incorporates depth and tactile information to create rich and accurate 3D models useful for robotic manipulation tasks. This is accomplished through the use of a 3D convolutional neural network (CNN). Offline, the network is provided with both depth and tactile information and trained to predict the object's geometry, thus filling in regions of occlusion. At runtime, the network is provided a partial view of an object. Tactile information is acquired to augment the captured depth information. The network can then reason about the object's geometry by utilizing both the collected tactile and depth information. We demonstrate that even small amounts of additional tactile information can be incredibly helpful in reasoning about object geometry. This is particularly true when information from depth alone fails to produce an accurate geometric prediction. Our method is benchmarked against and outperforms other visual-tactile approaches to general geometric reasoning. We also provide experimental results comparing grasping success with our method.

Title: Panthera: Design of a Reconfigurable Pavement Sweeping Robot
Key Words: cleaning  couplings  design engineering  fasteners  hygiene  mobile robots  motion control  pedestrians  roads  robot kinematics  service robots  shafts  steering systems  wheels  Panthera  urban hygiene  single lead screw shaft  linkages mechanism  reconfigurable pavement sweeping robot design  pavement cleaning robot  pedestrian  in-wheels motors  steering kinematics  motion control  onboard batteries  Robots  Fasteners  Wheels  Lead  Cleaning  Couplings  Meters 
Abstract: The pavement cleaning is essential to maintain urban hygiene and keep the long stretch of pavements spick and span. This paper reports on the development of novel reconfigurable pavement cleaning robot named Panthera. Reconfiguration in Panthera is gained by the expansion and contraction of the body frame using a single lead screw shaft and linkages mechanism. It gives the capability to reshape itself based on factors like pavement width and pedestrian density. The independent steering action is derived using two in-wheels motors for each steering axis. This imparts the flexibility in motion and make system omnidirectional and allows the convenient movement of the robot in any direction along the pavement. It is powered using onboard batteries that generate lesser noise compared to the existing solution powered with gasoline. The modeling and steering kinematics is presented along with experimental results of the path followed and discussion supporting the robot's capability.

Title: Automatic Leg Regeneration for Robot Mobility Recovery
Key Words: fault tolerance  legged locomotion  microprocessor chips  automatic leg regeneration  robot mobility recovery  automatic repair  robotic system  modular approach  robot functionality  robot structure regeneration  leg fabrication  mechanical structures  regeneration-based approach  legged robot disengagement  Legged locomotion  Robot sensing systems  Maintenance engineering  Fabrication  Permanent magnet motors  Three-dimensional displays 
Abstract: Automatic repair of mechanical structures would enable a robot to recover or improve functions after physical damage. Little work exists on real-world execution of automatic repair in robotic systems. State-of-the-art takes a modular approach where the robotic system is modular and a replacement module is available. However, the modular approach suffers from low granularity in repair even with tens of motors. In addition, there is a lack of quantitative evaluation of the effect of automatic repair on robot functionality. Here we propose a cooperative method for automatic repair in a robotic system. Our method is regeneration-based rather than module-based and does not assume availability of a replacement part. It integrates a fabrication process on the fly for robot structure regeneration. With a system that consists of a regenerating robot, a legged robot and a pre-engineered ribbon, we demonstrate end-to-end execution of automated repair of the legged robot's leg by the regenerating robot in 335 seconds. Experiments on repeatability show a 100% success rate for sub-processes such as positioning, leg fabrication, and legged robot disengagement and a 90% success rate for leg detachment. We quantify the effect of leg regeneration on mobility recovery and found a 90% recovery of forward speed, a 19.7% increase of peak power and a 9.3% reduction of cost of transport with a regenerated leg.

Title: Geometric interpretation of the general POE model for a serial-link robot via conversion into D-H parameterization
Key Words: calibration  industrial robots  robot kinematics  serial-link robot  helical joints  revolute joints  general joints  low pair joints  calibration  degree of freedom  Denavit-Hartenberg model  prismatic joints  geometric interpretation  product of exponentials formula  kinematic parameters  Robots  Mathematical model  Kinematics  Tools  Analytical models  Calibration  Three-dimensional displays 
Abstract: While Product of Exponentials (POE) formula has been gaining maturity in modeling the kinematics of a serial-link robot, the Denavit-Hartenberg (D-H) notation is still the most widely used due to its intuitive and concise geometric interpretation of the robot. This paper has developed an analytical solution to automatically convert a POE model into a D-H model for a robot with revolute, prismatic, and helical joints, which are the complete set of three basic one degree of freedom lower pair joints for constructing a serial-link robot. The conversion algorithm developed can be used in applications such as calibration where it is necessary to convert the D-H model to the POE model for identification and then back to the D-H model for compensation. The equivalence of the two models proved in this paper also benefits the analysis of the identifiability of the kinematic parameters. It is found that the maximum number of identifiable parameters in a general POE model is 5h+4r+2t+n+6 where h, r, t, and n stand for the number of helical, revolute, prismatic, and general joints, respectively. It is also suggested that the identifiability of the base frame and the tool frame in the D-H model is restricted rather than the arbitrary six parameters as assumed previously.

Title: Dynamic friction model with thermal and load dependency: modeling, compensation, and external force estimation
Key Words: drives  gears  sliding friction  slip  dynamic friction model  external force estimation  static friction model  gross sliding regime  Lund Grenoble  dynamic simulation  external torque estimation  generalized-Maxwell-slip  harmonic drive CSD 25 gear  test-bed  friction compensation  thermal-load dependency  nonlinear temperature dependency  nonlinear velocity dependency  Friction  Load modeling  Torque  Mathematical model  Temperature dependence  Estimation  Robots 
Abstract: A physically-motivated friction model with a parametric description of the nonlinear dependency of the temperature and velocity as well as the dependency on external load is presented. The fully parametric approach extends a static friction model in the gross sliding regime. We show how it can be seamlessly integrated in standard dynamic friction models such as Lund Grenoble (LuGre) and Generalized-Maxwell-Slip (GMS). Parameters of a Harmonic Drive CSD 25 gear are experimentally identified and the final model is evaluated on a dedicated test-bed. We show the integration and effectiveness in dynamic simulation, friction compensation, and external torque estimation.

Title: Echinoderm Inspired Variable Stiffness Soft Actuator with Connected Ossicle Structure
Key Words: actuators  biomechanics  design engineering  dexterous manipulators  elastic constants  elastomers  grippers  mobile robots  muscle  robot dynamics  robot kinematics  structural engineering  connective tissue  interossicular muscle  soft material robots  stiffness modulation method  structural stiffness  calcite ossicles  echinoderm inspired soft actuator  ossicle structure  robot kinematics  robot dynamics  load-bearing capability  design engineering  elastomer  finger-shaped stiffening structure  vacuum level  robotic gripper  Shape  Actuators  Jamming  Force  Muscles  Soft robotics 
Abstract: An echinoderm can actively modulate the structural stiffness of its body wall by as much as 10 times, using the material and structural features that make up its body, including calcite ossicles, connective tissue and interossicular muscle. This capacity for variable stiffness makes it possible to adapt to the kinematics and dynamics required to perform a given task and the surrounding environment. This characteristic can improve the ability of soft material robots, which currently have limited application because of their low load-bearing capability. This paper presents a stiffness modulation method inspired by the connected ossicle structures of echinoderms. We introduce the mechanism, structure, and stiffness variation of the proposed design with respect to different ossicle shape, interval, and elastomer. Then we built a finger-shaped stiffening structure using the proposed design, measured its stiffness according to vacuum level, and showed its load-bearing capacity under control. The proposed design was then applied to a robotic gripper, a typical device that interacts with unpredictable environments and needs variable stiffening ability.

Title: Controllability pre-verification of silicone soft robots based on finite-element method
Key Words: controllability  finite element analysis  Galerkin method  reduced order systems  robots  finite-element method  silicone soft robots  differential geometric method  controllable parallel soft robot  controllability pre-verification  emergent research field  variant promising applications  design soft robots  pre-checking controllability  numerical design phase  trial-and-error process  Soft robotics  Finite element analysis  Actuators  Numerical models  Analytical models  Controllability 
Abstract: Soft robot is an emergent research field which has variant promising applications. However, the design of soft robots nowadays still follows the trial-and-error process, which is not at all efficient. This paper proposes to design soft robots by pre-checking controllability during the numerical design phase. Finite-element method is used to model the dynamics of silicone soft robots, based on which the differential geometric method is applied to analyze the controllability of the points of interest. Such a verification is also investigated via model order reduction technique and Galerkin projection. The proposed methodology is finally validated by numerically designing a controllable parallel soft robot.

Title: A Vacuum-driven Origami “Magic-ball” Soft Gripper
Key Words: control system synthesis  design engineering  grippers  mechanical testing  mobile robots  pneumatic actuators  robust control  vacuum-driven origami magic-ball  designing soft grippers  substantial grasping strength  vacuum-driven soft robotic gripper  robustness  flexible thin membrane  mechanical load tests  pneumatic pressure  fabrication method  Grippers  Skin  Skeleton  Rubber  Connectors  Grasping  Shape 
Abstract: Soft robotics has yielded numerous examples of soft grippers that utilize compliance to achieve impressive grasping performances with great simplicity, adaptability, and robustness. Designing soft grippers with substantial grasping strength while remaining compliant and gentle is one of the most important challenges in this field. In this paper, we present a light-weight, vacuum-driven soft robotic gripper made of an origami “magic-ball” and a flexible thin membrane. We also describe the design and fabrication method to rapidly manufacture the gripper with different combinations of low-cost materials for diverse applications. Grasping experiments demonstrate that our gripper can lift a large variety of objects, including delicate foods, heavy bottles, and other miscellaneous items. The grasp force on 3D-printed objects is also characterized through mechanical load tests. The results reveal that our soft gripper can produce significant grasp force on various shapes using negative pneumatic pressure (vacuum). This new gripper holds the potential for many practical applications that require safe, strong, and simple grasping.

Title: Azimuthal Shear Deformation of a Novel Soft Fiber-reinforced Rotary Pneumatic Actuator
Key Words: bending  displacement measurement  elasticity  electroactive polymer actuators  finite element analysis  force measurement  pneumatic actuators  shear deformation  torsion  fiber pattern lead  azimuthal deformation  anisotropically distributed fiber element  hyper elastic material  azimuthal shear deformation  soft materials  elastic inflatable actuators  soft fiber-reinforced rotary pneumatic actuator  structure design  fabrication process  FEM simulation  rotation angles  Actuators  Strain  Windings  Prototypes  Limiting  Fabrication  Shafts 
Abstract: The Elastic Inflatable Actuators (EIAs) has several advantages such as the inherent compliance due to the body comprised of a soft materials such as silicone. Among them, the soft fiber reinforced actuator is based on the principle that the expansion of enclosure and constraint of fiber pattern lead to a desired operation. While lots of researches on the actuator has been attributed to linear and bending motions, however, there are only few researches on rotary, or torsional, motions. In this paper, we propose a new actuator that causes azimuthal deformation due to restriction of anisotropically distributed fiber element along the radial direction and expansion of the hyper elastic material. Structure design of the actuator and a fabrication process of the actuator are presented. Subsequently, FEM simulation and experiment are executed to measure rotation angles of the actuators corresponding to the applied pressure.

Title: INFORA: A Novel Inflatable Origami-based Actuator
Key Words: control system synthesis  grippers  pneumatic actuators  INFORA  pneumatic actuators  soft robotics  inflatable thin membranes  rigid foldable structure  high stiffness  inflatable origami-based actuator  tendril-like structure  grasping tasks  Actuators  Fabrication  Grippers  Task analysis  Mathematical model  Grasping  Laser beam cutting 
Abstract: Pneumatic actuators have gained huge popularity in the field of soft robotics. A class of this kind of devices exploits inflatable thin membranes which generate a desired displacement upon inflation, but often without providing sufficient force/torque to perform their task. In this paper, we propose a novel actuator combining a membrane and a rigid foldable structure. Experimental tests show that such INFlatable ORigami Actuator (INFORA) is characterized by relatively high stiffness compared to other actuators of the same class. We provide a mathematical model to be used for design purposes and we describe the fabrication process. In addition, we show how the INFORA can be used to build a tendril-like structure capable of performing grasping tasks.

Title: Dynamic Period-two Gait Generation in a Hexapod Robot based on the Fixed-point Motion of a Reduced-order Model
Key Words: gait analysis  legged locomotion  pendulums  reduced order systems  robot dynamics  springs (mechanical)  dynamic period-two gait generation  hexapod robot  fixed-point motion  reduced-order model  period-two dynamic running motion  spring-loaded inverted pendulum model  stance phases  flight phases  period-two fixed points  motion cycle  period-two motion trajectories  landing angles  R-SLIP model  Legged locomotion  Trajectory  Bifurcation  Numerical models  Dynamics  Robot kinematics 
Abstract: This research explored the generation of period-two dynamic running motion in a robot, based on the passive dynamic period-two motion of the reduced order, rolling spring-loaded inverted pendulum (R-SLIP) model. Each cycle of period-two motion consists of two stance phases separated by two flight phases. The distribution of the period-two fixed points of the model was analyzed using a return map. Models with the same or different landing angles per motion cycle were studied, and two sets of period-two motion trajectories were implemented in a robot for experimental evaluation. Without sensory feedback or control, this evaluation relied on the open loop trajectory of the model. Based on the experiments, the robot was capable of performing dynamic period-two motion.

Title: Realizing Learned Quadruped Locomotion Behaviors through Kinematic Motion Primitives
Key Words: control engineering computing  gradient methods  learning (artificial intelligence)  legged locomotion  motion control  principal component analysis  robot kinematics  robot programming  quadruped locomotion behavior learning  single gait learning  Stoch  policy gradient  PCA  quadrupedal walking  walking gaits  robust locomotion behaviors  D-RL  deep reinforcement learning  kMPs  kinematic motion primitives  Legged locomotion  Trajectory  Computational modeling  Kinematics  Optimization  Training 
Abstract: Humans and animals are believed to use a very minimal set of trajectories to perform a wide variety of tasks including walking. Our main objective in this paper is two fold 1) Obtain an effective tool to realize these basic motion patterns for quadrupedal walking, called the kinematic motion primitives (kMPs), via trajectories learned from deep reinforcement learning (D-RL) and 2) Realize a set of behaviors, namely trot, walk, gallop and bound from these kinematic motion primitives in our custom four legged robot, called the “Stoch”. D-RL is a data driven approach, which has been shown to be very effective for realizing all kinds of robust locomotion behaviors, both in simulation and in experiment. On the other hand, kMPs are known to capture the underlying structure of walking and yield a set of derived behaviors. We first generate walking gaits from D-RL, which uses policy gradient based approaches. We then analyze the resulting walking by using principal component analysis. We observe that the kMPs extracted from PCA followed a similar pattern irrespective of the type of gaits generated. Leveraging on this underlying structure, we then realize walking in Stoch by a straightforward reconstruction of joint trajectories from kMPs. This type of methodology improves the transferability of these gaits to real hardware, lowers the computational overhead on-board, and also avoids multiple training iterations by generating a set of derived behaviors from a single learned gait.

Title: Single-shot Foothold Selection and Constraint Evaluation for Quadruped Locomotion
Key Words: control engineering computing  convolutional neural nets  geometry  legged locomotion  motion control  optimal control  robot dynamics  robot kinematics  single-shot foothold selection  constraint evaluation  quadruped locomotion  optimal footholds  legged systems  swing leg  local elevation map  kinematic constraints  convolutional neural network  geometrical characteristics  Legged locomotion  Foot  Kinematics  Robot kinematics  Collision avoidance  Neural networks 
Abstract: In this paper, we propose a method for selecting the optimal footholds for legged systems. The goal of the proposed method is to find the best foothold for the swing leg on a local elevation map. First, we evaluate the geometrical characteristics of each cell on the elevation map, checks kinematic constraints and collisions. Then, we apply the Convolutional Neural Network to learn the relationship between the local elevation map and the quality of potential footholds. During execution time, the controller obtains the qualitative measurement of each potential foothold from the neural model. This method evaluates hundreds of potential footholds and checks multiple constraints in a single step which takes 10 ms on a standard computer without GPU. The experiments were carried out on a quadruped robot walking over rough terrain in both simulation and real robotic platforms.

Title: Optimized Jumping on the MIT Cheetah 3 Robot
Key Words: legged locomotion  optimisation  position control  robot dynamics  MIT Cheetah 3 robot  optimized jumping behavior  quadruped robots  precise high-frequency tracking controller  robust landing controller  robot body position  experimental validation  robot hardware  trajectory optimization  robot body orientation  Legged locomotion  Optimization  Torque  Robot kinematics  Hardware  Actuators 
Abstract: This paper presents a novel methodology for implementing optimized jumping behavior on quadruped robots. Our method includes efficient trajectory optimization, precise high-frequency tracking controller and robust landing controller for stabilizing the robot body position and orientation after impact. Experimental validation was successfully conducted on the MIT Cheetah 3, enabling the robot to repeatably jump onto and jump down from a desk with the height of 30" (0.76 m). The result demonstrates the advantages of the approach as well as the capability of the robot hardware itself.

Title: Lift Your Leg: Mechanics of Running Through Fluids
Key Words: energy consumption  gait analysis  legged locomotion  robot dynamics  fluid interaction mechanics  energy consumption  center of mass  gait stability  mud  SLIP runner  viscous medium  snow  stream banks  beach-head  dense fluids  shallow fluids  outdoor environments  unstructured environments  legged robotic platforms  Legged locomotion  Hip  Foot  Drag  Mathematical model  Actuators 
Abstract: In order for legged robotic platforms to become adept enough to operate in unstructured, outdoor environments it is critical that they have the ability to adapt to a variety of terrains. One class of terrains to consider are regions of shallow, dense fluids, such as a beach-head, stream banks, snow or mud. This work examines the behavior of a simulated SLIP runner operating in such a viscous medium. Simulation results show that intelligently retracting the leg during flight can have a profound effect on the maximum achievable velocity of the runner, the stability of the resulting gait, and the cost of transport of the runner. Results also show that trudging gaits, in which the leg is positioned behind the center of mass, can be favorable in certain situations in terms of energy consumption and forward velocity.

Title: Safely Probabilistically Complete Real-Time Planning and Exploration in Unknown Environments
Key Words: approximation theory  collision avoidance  mobile robots  predictive control  probability  reachability analysis  robot dynamics  robust control  safe backward reachable set  real-time simulation  safely probabilistically complete real-time planning  motion planning  kinodynamic planners  a priori unknown  static environments  collision avoidance  robust controller  reachability analysis  motion plans  robot operating system software environment  Planning  Trajectory  Safety  Computational modeling  Real-time systems  Vehicle dynamics  Probabilistic logic 
Abstract: We present a new framework for motion planning that wraps around existing kinodynamic planners and guarantees recursive feasibility when operating in a priori unknown, static environments. Our approach makes strong guarantees about overall safety and collision avoidance by utilizing a robust controller derived from reachability analysis. We ensure that motion plans never exit the safe backward reachable set of the initial state, while safely exploring the space. This preserves the safety of the initial state, and guarantees that that we will eventually find the goal if it is possible to do so while exploring safely. We implement our framework in the Robot Operating System (ROS) software environment and demonstrate it in a real-time simulation.

Title: Handling robot constraints within a Set-Based Multi-Task Priority Inverse Kinematics Framework
Key Words: manipulator kinematics  optimisation  redundant manipulators  safety related tasks  set-based task  equality tasks  set-bases tasks  optimization tasks  set-based multitask priority framework  set-based multitask priority inverse kinematics framework  robot constraint handling  redundant structures  7DOF Jaco2 arm  Task analysis  Optimization  Safety  Kinematics  Robots  Jacobian matrices  Redundancy 
Abstract: Set-Based Multi-Task Priority is a recent framework to handle inverse kinematics for redundant structures. Both equality tasks, i.e., control objectives to be driven to a desired value, and set-bases tasks, i.e., control objectives to be satisfied with a set/range of values can be addressed in a rigorous manner within a priority framework. In addition, optimization tasks, driven by the gradient of a proper function, may be considered as well, usually as lower priority tasks. In this paper the proper design of the tasks, their priority and the use of a Set-Based Multi-Task Priority framework is proposed in order to handle several constraints simultaneously in real-time. It is shown that safety related tasks such as, e.g., joint limits or kinematic singularity, may be properly handled by consider them both at an higher priority as set-based task and at a lower within a proper optimization functional. Experimental results on a 7DOF Jaco2 arm with and without the proposed approach show the effectiveness of the proposed method.

Title: Compliant Limb Sensing and Control for Safe Human-Robot Interactions
Key Words: force control  friction  human-robot interaction  robot dynamics  robot kinematics  stability  transient response  controller parameters  maximum safe operating velocity  linear model  1 DoF robotic joint  traditional admittance control law  simple control structure  compliant limb sensing  safe human-robot interactions  control methodology  human-robot interaction  compliant sensor  robot links  existing robots  mechanical redesign  linear robot model  stability analysis  admittance control law  comparable transient response  control structure  Robot sensing systems  Collision avoidance  Impedance  Safety  Force  Analytical models 
Abstract: The current paper proposes a control methodology for ensuring safety during human-robot interaction based on a compliant sensor covering the robot links as a lightweight shell. The method can be used with existing robots without the need for mechanical redesign. To assess the behaviour of the proposed control law, the controller is analysed using a linear robot model. Stability analysis is performed and requirements on the controller parameters are derived. The effect of the controller parameters on the perceived impedance and the maximum safe operating velocity of the robot are determined via the linear model. The adverse impact of dry friction is analysed in simulation and methods are developed to mitigate the effects. The controller is implemented on a 1 DoF robotic joint and the results are compared to those of a traditional admittance control law, demonstrating comparable transient response while maintaining a simple control structure and decreased risk of instability.

Title: Ascento: A Two-Wheeled Jumping Robot
Key Words: inspection  legged locomotion  robot dynamics  wheels  Ascento  jumping robot  mobile ground robots  complex indoor environments  mobile robotics  indoor inspection tasks  compact wheeled bipedal robot  flat terrain  mechanical design  Wheels  Legged locomotion  Hip  Robot kinematics  Batteries 
Abstract: Applications of mobile ground robots demand high speed and agility while navigating in complex indoor environments. These present an ongoing challenge in mobile robotics. A system with these specifications would be of great use for a wide range of indoor inspection tasks. This paper introduces Ascento, a compact wheeled bipedal robot that is able to move quickly on flat terrain, and to overcome obstacles by jumping. The mechanical design and overall architecture of the system is presented, as well as the development of various controllers for different scenarios. A series of experiments1 with the final prototype system validate these behaviors in realistic scenarios.

Title: Path Following Controller for Differentially Driven Planar Robots with Limited Torques and Uncertain and Changing Dynamics
Key Words: Kalman filters  mobile robots  nonlinear filters  robot dynamics  torque control  wheel torque commands  motor torque limits  internal control elements  differentially driven planar robots  asymmetrical planar robots  limited motor torques  environmental forces  unscented Kalman filter  robot inertia  Acceleration  Mobile robots  Force  Wheels  Torque  Robot kinematics 
Abstract: This paper presents a path following controller that is suitable for asymmetrical planar robots with significant mass and limited motor torques. the controller is resistant against environmental forces, and inaccurate estimates of robot's inertia, by estimating their effects with unscented kalman filter. the controller outputs wheel torque commands which take in account the motor torque limits and given relative priority of internal control elements. the method presented is thoroughly explained and the simulation results demonstrate the performance of the controller.

Title: Nonlinear Tire Cornering Stiffness Observer for a Double Steering Off-Road Mobile Robot
Key Words: linear quadratic control  mobile robots  nonlinear control systems  observers  off-road vehicles  path planning  predictive control  steering systems  tyres  vehicle dynamics  open environments  rear contact cornering stiffnesses  soil proprieties  steering angles  LQR controller  nonlinear tire cornering stiffness observer  double steering off-road mobile robot  path tracking controllers  autonomous vehicle  dynamic model  wheel-ground contact  Kalman-Bucy observer  ground parameter estimation  Observers  Tires  Mobile robots  Vehicle dynamics  Wheels  Nonlinear optics 
Abstract: Path tracking controllers for an autonomous vehicle are often designed by using either a dynamic model or a kinematic one and some models are related to wheel-ground contact, that makes the efficiency of the controller highly dependent on the ground parameters estimation, especially for off-road mobile robots intended to navigate in open environments. This paper proposes a new nonlinear observer designed to estimate the front and rear contact cornering stiffnesses in real time, that are related both on tire and soil proprieties. The latter is estimated using steering angles as well as yaw rate and lateral velocity, which are provided by a preliminary Kalman-Bucy observer. The performance of the proposed nonlinear observer combined with the LQR controller is evaluated by both advanced simulations and experiments in real conditions at different speeds.

Title: Hierarchical optimization for Whole-Body Control of Wheeled Inverted Pendulum Humanoids
Key Words: control system synthesis  end effectors  humanoid robots  manipulator dynamics  manipulator kinematics  mobile robots  motion control  nonlinear control systems  optimisation  pendulums  redundant manipulators  high-level controller plans  hierarchical optimization  whole-body control framework  redundant manipulators  wheels  optimal participation  low level controller  control zero dynamics  low-level controller plans  body joint manipulation  WIP humanoids  wheeled inverted pendulum humanoids  Wheels  Manipulator dynamics  Humanoid robots  Task analysis  Mobile robots  Robot kinematics 
Abstract: In this paper, we present a whole-body control framework for Wheeled Inverted Pendulum (WIP) Humanoids. WIP Humanoids are redundant manipulators dynamically balancing themselves on wheels. Characterized by several degrees of freedom, they have the ability to perform several tasks simultaneously, such as balancing, maintaining a body pose, controlling the gaze, lifting a load or maintaining end-effector configuration in operation space. The problem of whole-body control is to enable simultaneous performance of these tasks with optimal participation of all degrees of freedom at specified priorities for each objective. The control also has to obey constraint of angle and torque limits on each joint. The proposed approach is hierarchical with a low level controller for body joints manipulation and a high-level controller that defines center of mass (CoM) targets for the low-level controller to control zero dynamics of the system driving the wheels. The low-level controller plans for shorter horizons while considering more complete dynamics of the system, while the high-level controller plans for longer horizon based on an approximate model of the robot for computational efficiency.

Title: An Actively Controlled Variable Stiffness Structure via Layer Jamming and Pneumatic Actuation
Key Words: finite element analysis  friction  human-robot interaction  microactuators  pneumatic actuators  actively controlled variable stiffness structure  collaborative robots  robotic structures  actuation system  actively controlled stiffness structure  structure shape  shape morphing  morphed curvature  input actuator pressure  stiffness variation range  robotics field  lightweight morphing structures  pneumatic artificial muscles  human-robot interaction  bidirectional morphing  Pneumatic systems  Actuators  Jamming  Shape  Service robots  Muscles 
Abstract: Current robotics industry trends show an increased interest in the interaction between humans and robots in a variety of fields, ranging from collaborative robots in manufacturing to assisted medical devices in the medical field. One limiting factor in present applications is the ability to actively morph these robotic structures and control their stiffness using the same type of actuation system. This paper focuses on developing an actively controlled, variable stiffness structure that uses a pneumatic system for both morphing and locking the structure shape. The structure design integrates Pneumatic Artificial Muscles (PAMs) that are pressurized to control shape morphing. The pressurization of the PAM provides a radial force that allows bi-directional morphing based on the pressurization scheme. Layer Jamming, which utilizes varied friction between thin sheets based on pressure, is used to control the variable stiffness of the structure. In this paper, a control model is developed to predict the morphed curvature of the structure based on the input actuator pressure. This experimental control model is also validated using a theoretical pseudo-rigid-body model. The repeatability and accuracy of morphing is also discussed. Through experimental testing, a measure of the stiffness variation range of the structure is also developed. This novel research would positively impact the robotics field by creating lightweight morphing structures that are flexible and easily deformed, but also stiff with high load-carrying capability for increased human-robot interaction.

Title: A Floating-Piston Hydrostatic Linear Actuator and Remote-Direct-Drive 2-DOF Gripper
Key Words: brushless DC motors  design engineering  dexterous manipulators  diaphragms  elastomers  gears  grippers  hydraulic actuators  hydrostatics  medical robotics  motion control  pistons  prosthetics  seals (stoppers)  stiction  remote-direct-drive 2-DOF gripper  serial-chain motor-driven robotic arms  passive compliance  remote direct-drive manipulator  low-friction hydrostatic transmission  soft fiber-elastomer rolling-diaphragm seals  static friction  seal rubbing  gear ratios  dexterous robotic arm  floating-piston hydrostatic linear actuator design  backdrivable brushless electric motors  system hysteresis  powered prosthetic hand design  size 20.0 mm  Actuators  Pistons  Force  Manipulators  Hydraulic systems  Seals 
Abstract: Dexterous, serial-chain motor-driven robotic arms have high moving mass, since most of the actuators must be located in the arm itself. This necessitates high gear ratios, sacrificing passive compliance, backdrivability, and the capacity for delicate motion. We introduce the concept of a remote direct-drive (RDD) manipulator, in which every motor is located in the base, connected to remote joints via a low-friction hydrostatic transmission. We have designed a new hydrostatic linear actuator with a fully-floating piston; the piston floats within the cylinder using a pair of soft fiber-elastomer rolling-diaphragm seals. This eliminates static friction from seal rubbing and piston/rod misalignment. Actuators were developed with a 20mm bore, weighing 55 grams each with a 400:1 bidirectional strength-to-weight ratio $( + /-230\mathrm {N}$), which drive a 2-DOF manipulator (wrist pitch/finger pinch; 120-degree range-of-motion; 6.6 Nm max grip strength). The gripper is hydrostatically coupled to remotely-located direct-drive/backdrivable brushless electric motors. System hysteresis and friction are 1 percent of full-range force. This low-mass low-friction configuration is of great interest for powered prosthetic hand design, and passively-safe high dynamic range robot arms.

Title: 3D Printed Ferrofluid Based Soft Actuators
Key Words: magnetic actuators  magnetic fluids  magnetic particles  three-dimensional printing  magnetic particles  polymeric matrix  actuator response  3D printed material  3D printed tubes  3D printed more complex actuators  complex motion  ferrofluid based soft actuators  3D printed soft actuators  complex shapes  remote actuation  external magnetic field  ferrofluid-based actuator  Electron tubes  Magnetic moments  Ferrofluid  Actuators  Magnetic separation  Magnetic resonance imaging  Three-dimensional displays 
Abstract: This work demonstrates 3D printed soft actuators with complex shapes and remote actuation using an external magnetic field. Instead of embedding magnetic particles in a polymeric matrix, we fabricated a novel ferrofluid-based actuator, in which the fluid can be moved to different locations in the actuator to affect actuator response. We studied the effect of both the ferrofluid and the 3D printed material on the motion of simple actuators using 3D printed tubes. In addition, we 3D printed more complex actuators mimicking a human hand and a worm to demonstrate more complex motion.

Title: Learning Primitive Skills for Mobile Robots
Key Words: intelligent robots  learning (artificial intelligence)  legged locomotion  multi-robot systems  robot vision  robot soccer small-size domain  tactical level team strategies  high-level team strategies  individual robot ball-based skills  robot primitive skills  continuous action space  hardware fidelity  learned skills  mobile robots  hand-coding algorithms  training parameters  mobile robot system  deep reinforcement learning algorithm  primitive skills  task performance  learning algorithms  Robot kinematics  Sports  Task analysis  Training  Legged locomotion 
Abstract: Achieving effective task performance on real mobile robots is a great challenge when hand-coding algorithms, both due to the amount of effort involved and manually tuned parameters required for each skill. Learning algorithms instead have the potential to lighten up this challenge by using one single set of training parameters for learning different skills, but the question of the feasibility of such learning in real robots remains a research pursuit. We focus on a kind of mobile robot system - the robot soccer “small-size” domain, in which tactical and high-level team strategies build upon individual robot ball-based skills. In this paper, we present our work using a Deep Reinforcement Learning algorithm to learn three real robot primitive skills in continuous action space: go-to-ball, turn-and-shoot and shoot-goalie, for which there is a clear success metric to reach a destination or score a goal. We introduce the state and action representation, as well as the reward and network architecture. We describe our training and testing using a simulator of high physical and hardware fidelity. Then we test the policies trained from simulation on real robots. Our results show that the learned skills achieve an overall better success rate at the expense of taking 0.29 seconds slower on average for all three skills. In the end, we show that our policies trained in simulation have good performance on real robots by directly transferring the policy.

Title: Coverage Path Planning in Belief Space
Key Words: C++ language  collision avoidance  control engineering computing  lawnmowers  mobile robots  navigation  operating systems (computers)  robot programming  coverage path planning  belief space  robotic lawn mowers  safety-critical tasks  robot safety  cheap range sensors  low range sensors  uncertainty-aware coverage path  lawn mower  safe navigation  collision avoidance  C++ language  ROS  Robot sensing systems  Planning  Path planning  Uncertainty  Collision avoidance 
Abstract: For safety reasons, robotic lawn mowers and similar devices are required to stay within a predefined working area. Keeping the robot within its workspace is typically achieved by special safeguards such as a wire installed in the ground. In the case of robotic lawn mowers, this causes a certain customer reluctance. It is more desirable to fulfill those safety-critical tasks by safe navigation and path planning. In this paper, we tackle the problem of planning a coverage path composed of parallel lanes that maximizes robot safety under the constraints of cheap, low range sensors and thus substantial uncertainty in the robot's belief and ability to execute actions. Our approach uses a map of the environment to estimate localizability at all locations, and it uses these estimates to search for an uncertainty-aware coverage path while avoiding collisions. We implemented our approach using C++ and ROS and thoroughly tested it on real garden data. The experiment shows that our approach leads to safer meander patterns for the lawn mower and takes expected localizability information into account.

Title: Continuous Control for High-Dimensional State Spaces: An Interactive Learning Approach
Key Words: interactive systems  learning (artificial intelligence)  interactive learning approach  deep reinforcement learning  corrective advice communicated by humans  DRL agent  human training effort  D-COACH framework  human corrective feedback  human knowledge  machine learning methods  reward function  simulated environments  robotics applications  complex decision-making problems  high-dimensional state spaces  continuous control  Training  Robots  Shape  Task analysis  Adaptation models  Decoding  Machine learning 
Abstract: Deep Reinforcement Learning (DRL) has become a powerful methodology to solve complex decision-making problems. However, DRL has several limitations when used in real-world problems (e.g., robotics applications). For instance, long training times are required and cannot be accelerated in contrast to simulated environments, and reward functions may be hard to specify/model and/or to compute. Moreover, the transfer of policies learned in a simulator to the real-world has limitations (reality gap). On the other hand, machine learning methods that rely on the transfer of human knowledge to an agent have shown to be time efficient for obtaining well performing policies and do not require a reward function. In this context, we analyze the use of human corrective feedback during task execution to learn policies with high-dimensional state spaces, by using the D-COACH framework, and we propose new variants of this framework. D-COACH is a Deep Learning based extension of COACH (COrrective Advice Communicated by Humans), where humans are able to shape policies through corrective advice. The enhanced version of DCOACH, which is proposed in this paper, largely reduces the time and effort of a human for training a policy. Experimental results validate the efficiency of the D-COACH framework in three different problems (simulated and with real robots), and show that its enhanced version reduces the human training effort considerably, and makes it feasible to learn policies within periods of time in which a DRL agent do not reach any improvement.

Title: A Predictive Reward Function for Human-Like Driving Based on a Transition Model of Surrounding Environment
Key Words: decision making  image processing  learning (artificial intelligence)  mobile robots  neural nets  road traffic  road vehicles  robot vision  traffic engineering computing  autonomous driving vehicles  deep predictive network  predictive reward function  human-like driving  decision making  vehicle control  traffic flow  occupancy grid image  prediction network training  real driving data  reinforcement learning agent training  deep neural networks  Autonomous vehicles  Roads  Predictive models  Reinforcement learning  Decision making  Object detection  Autonomous driving  Prediction  Reward  Deep Learning  Reinforcement Learning  naturalistic Driving Data 
Abstract: Driving is a complex task that requires the perception of the surrounding environment, decision making and control of the vehicle. Human drivers predict how surrounding objects move and decide an appropriate driving behavior. As with human drivers, autonomous driving vehicles should consider the condition of the surrounding environment and behave naturally so as not to disturb the traffic flow. We propose a reward function for learning how natural the driving is based on the hypothesis that the movement of surrounding vehicles becomes unpredictable when the ego vehicle takes an unnatural driving behavior. The reward function is based on the prediction error of a deep predictive network that models the transition of the surrounding environment. Occupancy grid image is used to perceive the surrounding environment and the predictions up to two seconds are used to calculate the reward function. We evaluated the reward function using both simulated and the real world data. We trained the prediction network using real driving data and trained a reinforcement learning agent based on the reward function. Then we compared the speed planned by the agent and a human driver, which showed a correlation of 0.52. We also confirmed the benefit of taking prediction into account by observing the behavior of the agent in a specific traffic scenario.

Title: ADAPS: Autonomous Driving Via Principled Simulations
Key Words: hierarchical systems  remotely operated vehicles  road traffic control  robust control  ADAPS  autonomous driving  robust control policy  autonomous vehicles  simulation platforms  learning mechanism  hierarchical control policy  DAGGER method  Task analysis  Training  Accidents  Autonomous vehicles  Training data  Trajectory  Learning systems 
Abstract: Autonomous driving has gained significant advancements in recent years. However, obtaining a robust control policy for driving remains challenging as it requires training data from a variety of scenarios, including rare situations (e.g., accidents), an effective policy architecture, and an efficient learning mechanism. We propose ADAPS for producing robust control policies for autonomous vehicles. ADAPS consists of two simulation platforms in generating and analyzing accidents to automatically produce labeled training data, and a memoryenabled hierarchical control policy. Additionally, ADAPS offers a more efficient online learning mechanism that reduces the number of iterations required in learning compared to existing methods such as DAGGER [1]. We present both theoretical and experimental results. The latter are produced in simulated environments, where qualitative and quantitative results are generated to demonstrate the benefits of ADAPS.

Title: Planning Coordinated Event Observation for Structured Narratives
Key Words: finite automata  mobile robots  multi-robot systems  sport  structured narratives  autonomous robots  robot teams  large-scale road race  marathon  legible form  weighted finite automaton  simulated race scenario  coordinated event observation planning  Videos  Robot kinematics  Cameras  Robot vision systems  Mobile robots  Observers 
Abstract: This paper addresses the problem of using autonomous robots to record events that obey narrative structure. The work is motivated by a vision of robot teams that can, for example, produce individualized highlight videos for each runner in a large-scale road race such as a marathon. We introduce a method for specifying the desired structure as a function that describes how well the captured events can be used to produce an output that meets the specification. This function is specified in a compact, legible form similar to a weighted finite automaton. Then we describe a planner that uses simple predictions of future events to coordinate the robots' efforts to capture the most important events, as determined by the specification. We describe an implementation of this approach, and demonstrate its effectiveness in a simulated race scenario both in simulation and in a hardware testbed.

Title: Algorithmic Resolution of Multiple Impacts in Nonsmooth Mechanical Systems with Switching Constraints
Key Words: complementarity  differential algebraic equations  impact (mechanical)  iterative methods  legged locomotion  plasticity  robot dynamics  algorithmic resolution  multiple impacts  nonsmooth mechanical systems  switching constraints  differential-algebraic formulation  nonsmooth dynamics  robotic systems  changing constraints  kinematic constraints  algorithmic impact resolution method  classical plastic impact law  multiple simultaneous impacts  prior linear-complementarity-based formulations  implicit impact resolution  Switches  Mathematical model  Mechanical systems  Robots  Dynamics  Heuristic algorithms  Plastics 
Abstract: We present a differential-algebraic formulation with switching constraints to model the nonsmooth dynamics of robotic systems subject to changing constraints and multiple impacts. The formulation combines a single structurally simple governing equation, a set of switching kinematic constraints, and the plastic impact law, to represent the dynamics of robots that interact with their environment. The main contribution of this formulation is a novel algorithmic impact resolution method which provides an explicit solution to the classical plastic impact law in the case of multiple simultaneous impacts. This method serves as an alternative to prior linear-complementarity-based formulations which offer an implicit impact resolution through iterative calculation. We demonstrate the utility of the proposed method by simulating the locomotion of a planar anthropometric biped.

Title: Rigid Body Motion Prediction with Planar Non-convex Contact Patch
Key Words: computational geometry  manipulator dynamics  mechanical contact  shear modulus  planar nonconvex contact patch  intermittent contact  rigid body dynamic simulation  convex contact patches  contact detection  contacting rigid bodies  multiple point contact  single point contact  rigid body motion prediction  convex hull  Mathematical model  Dynamics  Numerical models  Transmission line matrix methods  Robots  Bars  Symmetric matrices 
Abstract: We present a principled method for motion prediction via dynamic simulation for rigid bodies in intermittent contact with each other where the contact is assumed to be a planar non-convex contact patch. The planar non-convex contact patch can either be a topologically connected set or disconnected set. Such algorithms are useful in planning and control for robotic manipulation. Most work in rigid body dynamic simulation assume that the contact between objects is a point contact, which may not be valid in many applications. In this paper, by using the convex hull of the contact patch, we build on our recent work on simulating rigid bodies with convex contact patches, for simulating motion of objects with planar non-convex contact patches. We formulate a discrete-time mixed complementarity problem where we solve the contact detection and integration of the equations of motion simultaneously. Thus, our method is a geometrically-implicit method and we prove that in our formulation, there is no artificial penetration between the contacting rigid bodies. We solve for the equivalent contact point (ECP) and contact impulse of each contact patch simultaneously along with the state, i.e., configuration and velocity of the objects. We provide empirical evidence to show that our method can seamlessly capture transition between different contact modes like patch contact to multiple or single point contact during simulation.

Title: A Data-driven Approach for Fast Simulation of Robot Locomotion on Granular Media
Key Words: control engineering computing  data analysis  granular materials  legged locomotion  mechanical contact  optimisation  shear modulus  stick-slip  data-driven approach  robot locomotion  granular media  semiempirical approach  contact model  stick-slip behavior  rigid objects  granular grains  granular substrate  optimization-based contact force  contact solver  contact wrenches  fast simulation  convex volume  frictional dissipation  plausible interaction response  Substrates  Computational modeling  Force  Media  Legged locomotion  Foot 
Abstract: In this paper, we propose a semi-empirical approach for simulating robot locomotion on granular media. We first develop a contact model based on the stick-slip behavior between rigid objects and granular grains, which is then learned through running extensive experiments. The contact model represents all possible contact wrenches that the granular substrate can provide as a convex volume, which our method formulates as constraints in an optimization-based contact force solver. During simulation, granular substrates are treated as rigid objects that allow penetration and the contact solver solves for wrenches that maximize frictional dissipation. We show that our method is able to simulate plausible interaction response with several granular media at interactive rates.

Title: Controller Synthesis for Discrete-time Hybrid Polynomial Systems via Occupation Measures
Key Words: computational complexity  control system synthesis  discrete time systems  feedback  legged locomotion  linear programming  linear systems  manipulator dynamics  optimisation  polynomials  stability  discrete-time hybrid polynomial system  occupation measures  controller synthesis  computational complexity  polynomial dynamics equation  feedback design  rigid body system stabilization  state-input space  finite-dimensional semidefinite programs  robot locomotion  robot manipulation  Aerospace electronics  Switches  Mathematical model  Optimization  Legged locomotion 
Abstract: We consider the feedback design for stabilizing a rigid body system by making and breaking multiple contacts with the environment without prespecifying the timing or the number of occurrence of the contacts. We model such a system as a discrete-time hybrid polynomial system, where the state-input space is partitioned into several polytopic regions with each region associated with a different polynomial dynamics equation. Based on the notion of occupation measures, we present a novel controller synthesis approach that solves finite-dimensional semidefinite programs as approximations to an infinite-dimensional linear program to stabilize the system. The optimization formulation is simple and convex, and for any fixed degree of approximations the computational complexity is polynomial in the state and control input dimensions. We illustrate our approach on some robotics examples.

Title: Optimal Path Planning for ω-regular Objectives with Abstraction-Refinement
Key Words: automata theory  computational complexity  control system synthesis  discrete time systems  game theory  optimal control  optimisation  path planning  trajectory control  optimal path planning  ω-regular objective  abstraction-refinement based framework  optimal controller synthesis  discrete-time concrete system  finite weighted transition system  optimal abstract controller  formal controller synthesis algorithms  robot surveillance scenario  Büchi automaton  Games  Automata  Surveillance  Cost function  Path planning  Partitioning algorithms 
Abstract: This paper presents an abstraction-refinement based framework for optimal controller synthesis of discrete-time systems with respect to ω-regular objectives. It first abstracts the discrete-time “concrete” system into a finite weighted transition system using a finite partition of the state-space. Then, a two-player mean payoff parity game is solved on the product of the abstract system and the Büchi automaton corresponding to the ω-regular objective, to obtain an optimal “abstract” controller that satisfies the ω-regular objective. The abstract controller is guaranteed to be implementable in the concrete discrete-time system, with a sub-optimal cost. The abstraction is refined with finer partitions to reduce the suboptimality. In contrast to existing formal controller synthesis algorithms based on abstractions, this technique provides an upper bound on the trajectory cost when implementing the suboptimal controller. A robot surveillance scenario is presented to illustrate the feasibility of the approach.

Title: Sampling-Based Polytopic Trees for Approximate Optimal Control of Piecewise Affine Systems
Key Words: approximation theory  closed loop systems  control system synthesis  convex programming  discrete time systems  feedback  integer programming  linear quadratic control  Lyapunov methods  nonlinear control systems  optimal control  piecewise linear techniques  predictive control  stability  piecewise affine systems  contact dynamics  robot locomotion  control techniques  feedback control policies  discrete-time PWA systems  closed-loop trajectories  cost function  LQR-trees  open-loop trajectory optimization  PWA dynamics  contact-based dynamics  sampling-based polytopic trees  approximate optimal control  Trajectory  Robots  Programming  Integrated circuit modeling  Optimization  Optimal control  Computational modeling 
Abstract: Piecewise affine (PWA) systems are widely used to model highly nonlinear behaviors such as contact dynamics in robot locomotion and manipulation. Existing control techniques for PWA systems have computational drawbacks, both in offline design and online implementation. In this paper, we introduce a method to obtain feedback control policies and a corresponding set of admissible initial conditions for discrete-time PWA systems such that all the closed-loop trajectories reach a goal polytope, while a cost function is optimized. The idea is conceptually similar to LQR-trees [1], which consists of 3 steps: (1) open-loop trajectory optimization, (2) feedback control for computation of “funnels” of states around trajectories, and (3) repeating (1) and (2) in a way that the funnels are grown backward from the goal in a tree fashion and fill the state-space as much as possible. We show PWA dynamics can be exploited to combine step (1) and (2) into a single step that is tackled using mixed-integer convex programming, which makes the method suitable for dealing with hard constraints. Illustrative examples on contact-based dynamics are presented.

Title: A Classification-based Approach for Approximate Reachability
Key Words: approximation theory  computational complexity  controllability  nonlinear control systems  optimal control  pattern classification  reachability analysis  goal satisfaction  safety verification  nonlinear systems  computational complexity  restrictive problem classes  optimal controller  HJ reachability problem  control-affine systems  dynamical systems  reachability value function  classification-based approach  approximate reachability  Hamilton-Jacobi reachability analysis  simple binary classifiers  grid-based methodologies  physical quadrotor navigation task  Optimal control  Reachability analysis  Tools  Neural networks  Safety  System dynamics 
Abstract: Hamilton-Jacobi (HJ) reachability analysis has been developed over the past decades into a widely-applicable tool for determining goal satisfaction and safety verification in nonlinear systems. While HJ reachability can be formulated very generally, computational complexity can be a serious impediment for many systems of practical interest. Much prior work has been devoted to computing approximate solutions to large reachability problems, yet many of these methods may only apply to very restrictive problem classes, do not generate controllers, and/or can be extremely conservative. In this paper, we present a new method for approximating the optimal controller of the HJ reachability problem for control-affine systems. While also a specific problem class, many dynamical systems of interest are, or can be well approximated, by control-affine models. We explicitly avoid storing a representation of the reachability value function, and instead learn a controller as a sequence of simple binary classifiers. We compare our approach to existing grid-based methodologies in HJ reachability and demonstrate its utility on several examples, including a physical quadrotor navigation task.

Title: Improving drone localisation around wind turbines using monocular model-based tracking
Key Words: convolutional neural nets  Global Positioning System  graph theory  image matching  image representation  inertial navigation  mobile robots  object tracking  pose estimation  robot vision  stereo image processing  wind turbines  image-based measurements  drone navigation system  automated inspection  wind turbines  3D skeleton representation  image data  convolutional neural network  generic turbine model  turbine shapes  image measurements  drone localisation  monocular model-based tracking  pose graph optimiser  Wind turbines  Blades  Drones  Inspection  Poles and towers  Cameras  Three-dimensional displays 
Abstract: We present a novel method of integrating image-based measurements into a drone navigation system for the automated inspection of wind turbines. We take a model-based tracking approach, where a 3D skeleton representation of the turbine is matched to the image data. Matching is based on comparing the projection of the representation to that inferred from images using a convolutional neural network. This enables us to find image correspondences using a generic turbine model that can be applied to a wide range of turbine shapes and sizes. To estimate 3D pose of the drone, we fuse the network output with GPS and IMU measurements using a pose graph optimiser. Results illustrate that the use of the image measurements significantly improves the accuracy of the localisation over that obtained using GPS and IMU alone.

Title: Experimental Assessment of Plume Mapping using Point Measurements from Unmanned Vehicles
Key Words: air pollution  air quality  autonomous aerial vehicles  environmental monitoring (geophysics)  Gaussian processes  interpolation  mobile robots  Monte Carlo methods  regression analysis  point measurements  autonomous robots  mapping algorithms  piecewise linear interpolation  steady state ground truth  unmanned aerial vehicle  Gaussian process regression  polynomial interpolation  plume mapping  neural networks  Robot sensing systems  Interpolation  Gaussian processes  Dispersion  Noise measurement  Neural networks 
Abstract: This paper presents experiments to assess the plume mapping performance of autonomous robots. The paper compares several mapping algorithms including Gaussian Process regression, Neural networks and polynomial and piecewise linear interpolation. The methods are compared in Monte Carlo simulations using a well known plume model and in indoor experiments using a ground robot. Unlike previous work on mapping using unmanned vehicles, the indoor experiments were performed in a controlled and repeatable manner where a steady state ground truth could be obtained in order to properly assess the various regression methods using data from a real dispersive source and sensor. The effect of sampling time during data collection was assessed with regards to the mapping accuracy, and the data collected during the experiments have been made available. Overall, the Gaussian Process method was found to perform the best among the regression algorithms, showing more robustness to the noisy measurements obtained from short sampling periods, enabling an accurate map to be produced in significantly less time. Finally, plume mapping results are presented in uncontrolled outdoor conditions, using an unmanned aerial vehicle, to demonstrate the system in a realistic uncontrolled environment.

Title: Online Deep Learning for Improved Trajectory Tracking of Unmanned Aerial Vehicles Using Expert Knowledge
Key Words: autonomous aerial vehicles  learning (artificial intelligence)  neurocontrollers  trajectory control  input-output dataset  deep neural network-based controller  trained DNN  expert knowledge  learning-based approach  trajectory tracking performance  online deep learning  unmanned aerial vehicles  online learning-based control method  trajectory tracking  Training  Fuzzy logic  Unmanned aerial vehicles  Trajectory  Real-time systems  Trajectory tracking 
Abstract: This work presents an online learning-based control method for improved trajectory tracking of unmanned aerial vehicles using both deep learning and expert knowledge. The proposed method does not require the exact model of the system to be controlled, and it is robust against variations in system dynamics as well as operational uncertainties. The learning is divided into two phases: offline (pre-)training and online (post-)training. In the former, a conventional controller performs a set of trajectories and, based on the input-output dataset, the deep neural network (DNN)-based controller is trained. In the latter, the trained DNN, which mimics the conventional controller, controls the system. Unlike the existing papers in the literature, the network is still being trained for different sets of trajectories which are not used in the training phase of DNN. Thanks to the rule-base, which contains the expert knowledge, the proposed framework learns the system dynamics and operational uncertainties in real-time. The experimental results show that the proposed online learning-based approach gives better trajectory tracking performance when compared to the only offline trained network.

Title: Decentralized collaborative transport of fabrics using micro-UAVs
Key Words: autonomous aerial vehicles  decentralised control  microrobots  mobile robots  remotely operated vehicles  microUAV  small unmanned aerial vehicles  Buzz swarm-specific scripting language  fully decentralized control infrastructure  task demands  unstructured environments  maximum flexibility  joint payload capacity  decentralized collaborative transport  Robots  Payloads  Springs  Force  Task analysis  Shock absorbers  Python 
Abstract: Small unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs) have generally little capacity to carry payloads. Through collaboration, the UAVs can increase their joint payload capacity and carry more significant loads. For maximum flexibility to dynamic and unstructured environments and task demands, we propose a fully decentralized control infrastructure based on a swarm-specific scripting language, Buzz. In this paper, we describe the control infrastructure and use it to compare two algorithms for collaborative transport: field potentials and spring-damper. We test the performance of our approach with a fleet of micro-UAVs, demonstrating the potential of decentralized control for collaborative transport.

Title: Precision Stationary Flight of a Robotic Hummingbird*
Key Words: aerodynamics  aerospace components  aircraft control  autonomous aerial vehicles  cascade control  compensation  mobile robots  robot dynamics  robot kinematics  torque control  trajectory control  robotic hummingbird project  flapping mechanism  wing trajectory  cascade control strategy  precision stationary flight  residual parasitic torques compensation  lift vector  autopilot  Bars  Robots  Acceleration  Aerodynamics  Harmonic analysis  Couplings  Kinematics 
Abstract: This paper describes recent developments of a robotic hummingbird project, aimed at achieving precision stationary hovering. To this end, the early version of our flapping mechanism is modified which, besides being more efficient, reduces significantly the asymmetry of the wing trajectory of the previous version. A cascade control strategy is used to compensate for the residual parasitic torques and the misalignment of the lift vector and the autopilot.

Title: Robust attitude estimation using an adaptive unscented Kalman filter
Key Words: attitude control  attitude measurement  covariance matrices  Kalman filters  manipulators  nonlinear filters  robust control  UKF innovation  adaptive strategy  measurement covariance matrix online  outlier detection  robust attitude estimation  standard UKF  unit quaternion algebra  outlier detector algorithm  robust adaptive unscented Kalman filter  Quaternions  Estimation  Covariance matrices  Magnetometers  Kalman filters  Accelerometers  Mathematical model 
Abstract: This paper presents the robust Adaptive unscented Kalman filter (RAUKF) for attitude estimation. Since the proposed algorithm represents attitude as a unit quaternion, all basic tools used, including the standard UKF, are adapted to the unit quaternion algebra. Additionally, the algorithm adopts an outlier detector algorithm to identify abrupt changes in the UKF innovation and an adaptive strategy based on covariance matching to tune the measurement covariance matrix online. Adaptation and outlier detection make the proposed algorithm robust to fast and slow perturbations such as magnetic field interference and linear accelerations. Experimental results with a manipulator robot suggest that our method overcomes other algorithms found in the literature.

Title: One-Shot Learning of Multi-Step Tasks from Observation via Activity Localization in Auxiliary Video
Key Words: inference mechanisms  learning (artificial intelligence)  video signal processing  one-shot learning  multistep tasks  activity localization  reinforcement learning  action policies learning  reward functions inference  user-segmented demonstration  auxiliary video data  Task analysis  Reinforcement learning  Neural networks  Training  Robot sensing systems  Training data 
Abstract: Due to burdensome data requirements, learning from demonstration often falls short of its promise to allow users to quickly and naturally program robots. Demonstrations are inherently ambiguous and incomplete, making correct generalization to unseen situations difficult without a large number of demonstrations in varying conditions. By contrast, humans are often able to learn complex tasks from a single demonstration (typically observations without action labels) by leveraging context learned over a lifetime. Inspired by this capability, our goal is to enable robots to perform one-shot learning of multi-step tasks from observation by leveraging auxiliary video data as context. Our primary contribution is a novel system that achieves this goal by: (1) using a single user-segmented demonstration to define the primitive actions that comprise a task, (2) localizing additional examples of these actions in unsegmented auxiliary videos via a metalearning-based approach, (3) using these additional examples to learn a reward function for each action, and (4) performing reinforcement learning on top of the inferred reward functions to learn action policies that can be combined to accomplish the task. We empirically demonstrate that a robot can learn multi-step tasks more effectively when provided auxiliary video, and that performance greatly improves when localizing individual actions, compared to learning from unsegmented videos.

Title: LVIS: Learning from Value Function Intervals for Contact-Aware Robot Controllers
Key Words: concave programming  feedback  humanoid robots  integer programming  learning (artificial intelligence)  mechanical contact  mobile robots  neurocontrollers  optimal control  predictive control  robot dynamics  tree searching  LVIS  contact-aware robot controllers  guided policy search  high-dimensional systems  nonconvex trajectory optimization  local minima  optimal policy  independently-optimized samples  optimal value function  mixed-integer programs  global optimality  interval samples  terminal cost  feedback control  learning from value function intervals  controller training  global mixed-integer optimization  nonuniqueness issue  branch-and-bound algorithm  neural net training  learned cost-to-go  one-step model-predictive controller  piecewise affine models  cart-pole system  planar humanoid robot  Humanoid robots  Trajectory optimization  Neural networks  Force  Training 
Abstract: Guided policy search is a popular approach for training controllers for high-dimensional systems, but it has a number of pitfalls. Non-convex trajectory optimization has local minima, and non-uniqueness in the optimal policy itself can mean that independently-optimized samples do not describe a coherent policy from which to train. We introduce LVIS, which circumvents the issue of local minima through global mixed-integer optimization and the issue of non-uniqueness through learning the optimal value function rather than the optimal policy. To avoid the expense of solving the mixed-integer programs to full global optimality, we instead solve them only partially, extracting intervals containing the true cost-to-go from early termination of the branch-and-bound algorithm. These interval samples are used to weakly supervise the training of a neural net which approximates the true cost-to-go. Online, we use that learned cost-to-go as the terminal cost of a one-step model-predictive controller, which we solve via a small mixed-integer optimization. We demonstrate LVIS on piecewise affine models of a cart-pole system with walls and a planar humanoid robot and show that it can be applied to a fundamentally hard problem in feedback control-control through contact.

