total paper: 69
Title: GEN-SLAM: Generative Modeling for Monocular Simultaneous Localization and Mapping
Abstract: We present a Deep Learning based system for the twin tasks of localization and obstacle avoidance essential to any mobile robot. Our system learns from conventional geometric SLAM, and outputs, using a single camera, the topological pose of the camera in an environment, and the depth map of obstacles around it. We use a CNN to localize in a topological map, and a conditional VAE to output depth for a camera image, conditional on this topological location estimation. We demonstrate the effectiveness of our monocular localization and depth estimation system on simulated and real datasets.


Title: RESLAM: A real-time robust edge-based SLAM system
Abstract: Simultaneous Localization and Mapping is a key requirement for many practical applications in robotics. In this work, we present RESLAM, a novel edge-based SLAM system for RGBD sensors. Due to their sparse representation, larger convergence basin and stability under illumination changes, edges are a promising alternative to feature-based or other direct approaches. We build a complete SLAM pipeline with camera pose estimation, sliding window optimization, loop closure and relocalisation capabilities that utilizes edges throughout all steps. In our system, we additionally refine the initial depth from the sensor, the camera poses and the camera intrinsics in a sliding window to increase accuracy. Further, we introduce an edge-based verification for loop closures that can also be applied for relocalisation. We evaluate RESLAM on wide variety of benchmark datasets that include difficult scenes and camera motions and also present qualitative results. We show that this novel edge-based SLAM system performs comparable to state-of-the-art methods, while running in real-time on a CPU. RESLAM is available as open-source software1.


Title: On-line 3D active pose-graph SLAM based on key poses using graph topology and sub-maps
Abstract: In this paper, we present an on-line active pose-graph simultaneous localization and mapping (SLAM) frame-work for robots in three-dimensional (3D) environments using graph topology and sub-maps. This framework aims to find the best trajectory for loop-closure by re-visiting old poses based on the T-optimality and D-optimality metrics of the Fisher information matrix (FIM) in pose-graph SLAM. In order to reduce computational complexity, graph topologies are introduced, including weighted node degree (T-optimality metric) and weighted tree-connectivity (D-optimality metric), to choose a candidate trajectory and several key poses. With the help of the key poses, a sampling-based path planning method and a continuous-time trajectory optimization method are combined hierarchically and applied in the whole framework. So as to further improve the real-time capability of the method, the sub-map joining method is used in the estimation and planning process for large-scale active SLAM problems. In simulations and experiments, we validate our approach by comparing against existing methods, and we demonstrate the on-line planning part using a quad-rotor unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV).


Title: Linear Heterogeneous Reconfiguration of Cubic Modular Robots via Simultaneous Tunneling and Permutation
Abstract: Reconfiguring heterogeneous modular robots in which all modules are not identical is much more time consuming than reconfiguring homogeneous ones, because ordinary heterogeneous reconfiguration is a combination of homogeneous transformation and heterogeneous permutation. While linear homogeneous transformation has been accomplished in previous research, linear heterogeneous permutation has not. This paper studies a reconfiguration algorithm for heterogeneous lattice modular robots with linear operation time cost. The algorithm is based on simultaneous tunneling and permutation, where a robot transforms its configuration via tunneling motion while permutation of each module's position is performed simultaneously during the tunneling transformation. To achieve this, we introduce the idea of a transparent meta-module that allows modules belonging to a meta-module to pass through the spaces occupied by other meta-modules. We prove the correctness and completeness of the proposed algorithm for a 2×2×2 cubic meta-module-based connected robot structure. We also show examples of the reconfiguration simulations of heterogeneous modular robots by the proposed algorithm.


Title: Design and Fabrication of Transformable Head Structures for Endoscopic Catheters*
Abstract: We present a transformable catheter head structure for endoscopic catheter allowing the simultaneous use of a camera module and a large tool channel introduced through a small incision. At the site of interest, the head with a camera can be expanded from the initial straight configuration, which opens a window for advancing a tool that is located behind the camera. Two different designs were proposed and prototyped. One option has flexure joints directly fabricated at the distal end of a polymer catheter by laser micro-machining, while another design employs a hinged metal head assembled at the tip of the same type of catheter. The kinematic behavior of each head was evaluated during the head-up and tip steering motions, and compared with each other to draw a selection guideline between them. Experimental results prove the feasibility of the proposed head structure for smarter endoscopic catheters.


Title: Dynamically-consistent Generalized Hierarchical Control
Abstract: Tracking multiple prioritized tasks simultaneously with redundant robots have been investigated extensively over the last decades. Recent research focuses on combining advantages from both classical soft and strict prioritization schemes which is non-trivial. Among the proposed methods to tackle this issue, Generalized Hierarchical Control (GHC) seems to have a reasonable performance, however, it does not include a weighting matrix in the computation of the nullspace projection operator and hence cannot construct dynamically-consistent stack-of-tasks hierarchies as a special case. We extend GHC by adding dynamic-consistency to the control scheme and refer to it as DynGHC. The extension is also advantageous when choosing non-strict priorities because inertia coupling between tasks is reduced. DynGHC allows to smoothly rearrange priorities which is important for robots acting in dynamically changing contexts. Comparative simulations with a 4 DOF planar manipulator and a KUKA LWR validate our approach. Matlab and C++ source code is made available.


Title: MH-iSAM2: Multi-hypothesis iSAM using Bayes Tree and Hypo-tree
Abstract: A novel nonlinear incremental optimization algorithm MH-iSAM2 is developed to handle ambiguity in simultaneous localization and mapping (SLAM) problems in a multi-hypothesis fashion. It can output multiple possible solutions for each variable according to the ambiguous inputs, which is expected to greatly enhance the robustness of autonomous systems as a whole. The algorithm consists of two data structures: an extension of the original Bayes tree that allows efficient multi-hypothesis inference, and a Hypo-tree that is designed to explicitly track and associate the hypotheses of each variable as well as all the inference processes for optimization. With our proposed hypothesis pruning strategy, MH-iSAM2 enables fast optimization and avoids the exponential growth of hypotheses. We evaluate MH-iSAM2 using both simulated datasets and real-world experiments, demonstrating its improvements on the robustness and accuracy of SLAM systems.


Title: Closed-loop MPC with Dense Visual SLAM - Stability through Reactive Stepping
Abstract: Walking gaits generated using Model Predictive Control (MPC) is widely used due to its capability to handle several constraints that characterize humanoid locomotion. The use of simplified models such as the Linear Inverted Pendulum allows to perform computations in real-time, giving the robot the fundamental capacity to replan its motion to follow external inputs (e.g. reference velocity, footstep plans). However, usually the MPC does not take into account the current state of the robot when computing the reference motion, losing the ability to react to external disturbances. In this paper a closed-loop MPC scheme is proposed to estimate the robot's real state through Simultaneous Localization and Mapping (SLAM) and proprioceptive sensors (force/torque). With the proposed control scheme it is shown that the robot is able to react to external disturbances (push), by stepping to recover from the loss of balance. Moreover the localization allows the robot to navigate to target positions in the environment without being affected by the drift generated by imperfect open-loop control execution. We validate the proposed scheme through two different experiments with a HRP-4 humanoid robot.


Title: A Kalman Filter-Based Algorithm for Simultaneous Time Synchronization and Localization in UWB Networks
Abstract: The ability to accurately measure signal time-of-flight between ultra-wideband (UWB) wireless communication transceivers, even in multipath environments, makes this technology ideally suited to develop ranging-based positioning systems, especially for indoor applications where GPS signals are not available. In recent years, low-cost commercial UWB transceivers have become more easily available and increasingly used to develop custom robot positioning systems. In this paper, we focus in particular on positioning techniques requiring the synchronization of base stations such as Time of Arrival (TOA) and Time Difference of Arrival (TDOA). We present a protocol based on Kalman filtering for simultaneous synchronization of multiple UWB base stations and positioning of an arbitrary number of passive UWB receivers. We illustrate experimentally using our protocol and an EKF-based navigation system design the level of accuracy achievable with small low-power UWB modules for mobile robot positioning. We discuss in details measurement errors and system tuning issues applicable to popular commercial UWB transceivers.


Title: Active Contraints for Tool-Shaft Collision Avoidance in Minimally Invasive Surgery
Abstract: Recent advances in teleoperation-based robotic-assisted Minimally Invasive Surgery (MIS) have made significant inroads in clinical adoption. However, such master-slave surgical systems create a physical separation between the surgeon and the patient. The concept of Active Constraints (ACs) provides guidance and sensory information to surgical robot operators in a form of haptic, visual or audible cues. This work proposes a novel ACs approach to avoid surgical tool-clashing and collision of the tool-shaft with delicate anatomy using elasto-plastic frictional force control. The presented framework is designed to reduce the occurence of direct coupling during electrocautery and to protect high-risk regions in Minimally Invasive Partial Nephrectomy (MIPN). Moreover, we combine aforementioned ACs methods and propose a solution when simultaneous penetration of both constraints occurs. The proposed methodology is implemented on the teleoperated da Vinci Surgical System using the da Vinci Research Kit (dVRK) and its performance is demonstrated through three types of user experiments. The experimental results show that the developed algorithms are of significant benefit in performing the tasks with ACs assistance.


Title: Goal-Driven Navigation for Non-holonomic Multi-Robot System by Learning Collision
Abstract: In this paper, we propose the reinforcement learning based multi-robot collision avoidance approach by learning collision. Dynamical path re-planning, which is massively used in classical collision avoidance methods, needs overall information of the environment. Also, training agent robots to avoid the collision and pursue a goal point simultaneously is inefficient since the agent should learn two tasks. As the number of tasks that the agent should learn increases, it is difficult to make the performance of an algorithm consistent, which is known as reproducibility issue. To overcome these limitations, Collision Avoidance by Learning Collision (CALC), which learns collision instead of avoiding an obstacle robot is suggested. To solve the collision avoidance problem efficiently, the proposed method divides the problem into training and planning. In the training algorithm, an agent robot learns how to collide with a single obstacle robot and then generates a trained policy. With the trained policy, the agent can pursue a goal point since the policy leads the agent to `collide' with the goal. Furthermore, by taking action in a reverse way from the trained policy, the agent can avoid multiple obstacle robots in the planning algorithm at once. The proposed method is validated both in the robot simulation and real robot experiment, and compared with the existing collision avoidance method.


Title: Visual Appearance Analysis of Forest Scenes for Monocular SLAM
Abstract: Monocular simultaneous localisation and mapping (SLAM) is a cheap and energy efficient way to enable Unmanned Aerial Vehicles (UAVs) to safely navigate managed forests and gather data crucial for monitoring tree health. SLAM research, however, has mostly been conducted in structured human environments, and as such is poorly adapted to unstructured forests. In this paper, we compare the performance of state of the art monocular SLAM systems on forest data and use visual appearance statistics to characterise the differences between forests and other environments, including a photorealistic simulated forest. We find that SLAM systems struggle with all but the most straightforward forest terrain and identify key attributes (lighting changes and in-scene motion) which distinguish forest scenes from “classic” urban datasets. These differences offer an insight into what makes forests harder to map and open the way for targeted improvements. We also demonstrate that even simulations that look impressive to the human eye can fail to properly reflect the difficult attributes of the environment they simulate, and provide suggestions for more closely mimicking natural scenes.


Title: Lightweight Contrast Modeling for Attention-Aware Visual Localization
Abstract: Salient object detection, which aims at localizing the attention-aware visual objects, is the indispensable technology for intelligent robots to understand and interact with the complicated environments. Existing salient object detection approaches mainly focus on the optimization of detection performance, while ignoring the considerations for computational resource consumption and algorithm efficiency. Contrarily, we build a superior lightweight network architecture to simultaneously improve performance on both accuracy and efficiency for salient object detection. Specifically, our proposed approach adopts the lightweight bottleneck as its primary building block to significantly reduce the number of parameters and to speed up the process of training and inference. In practice, the visual contrast is insufficiently discovered with the limitation of the small empirical receptive field of CNN. To alleviate this issue, we design a multi-scale convolution module to rapidly discover high-level visual contrast. Moreover, a lightweight refinement module is utilized to restore object saliency details with negligible extra cost. Extensive experiments on efficiency and accuracy trade-offs show that our model is more competitive than the state-of-the-art works on salient object detection task and has prominent potentials for robots applications in real time.


Title: Distributed Radiation Field Estimation and Informative Path Planning for Nuclear Environment Characterization
Abstract: This paper details the system and methods designed to enable the autonomous estimation of distributed nuclear radiation fields within complex and possibly GPS-denied environments. A sensing apparatus consisting of three radially placed Thallium-doped Cesium Iodide (CsI(Tl)) scintillators and Silicon Photomultipliers (SiPm) combined with custom- built pulse counting circuitry is designed and the provided readings are pose-annotated using LiDAR-based localization. Given this capacity, a method that utilizes the radiation intensity readings to first calculate the immediate field gradient and then combine this information to update and co-estimate the believed field intensity and gradient across the whole environment is developed. The strategy propagates the effect of each local measurement through field gradient co-estimation and simultaneously derives a model of the underlying uncertainty. To further support the need for informative data gathering, especially in the framework of emergency and rapid reconnaissance missions, a path planning strategy is also developed that first utilizes the field intensity and uncertainty estimates to select its new waypoint and then performs terrain traversability analysis to derive admissible paths. The complete system is evaluated both in simulation and experimentally. The experimental results refer to the autonomous exploration and field estimation inside an indoor facility within which actual radioactive uranium and thorium ore sources have been distributed.


Title: A Comparison of CNN-Based and Hand-Crafted Keypoint Descriptors
Abstract: Keypoint matching is an important operation in computer vision and its applications such as visual simultaneous localization and mapping (SLAM) in robotics. This matching operation heavily depends on the descriptors of the keypoints, and it must be performed reliably when images undergo condition changes such as those in illumination and viewpoint. Previous research in keypoint description has pursued three classes of descriptors: hand-crafted, those from trained convolutional neural networks (CNN), and those from pre-trained CNNs. This paper provides a comparative study of the three classes of keypoint descriptors, in terms of their ability to handle conditional changes. The study is conducted on the latest benchmark datasets in computer vision with challenging conditional changes. Our study finds that (a) in general CNN-based descriptors outperform hand-crafted descriptors, (b) the trained CNN descriptors perform better than pre-trained CNN descriptors with respect to viewpoint changes, and (c) pre-trained CNN descriptors perform better than trained CNN descriptors with respect to illumination changes. These findings can serve as a basis for selecting appropriate keypoint descriptors for various applications.


Title: Environment Driven Underwater Camera-IMU Calibration for Monocular Visual-Inertial SLAM
Abstract: Most state-of-the-art underwater vision systems are calibrated manually in shallow water and used in open seas without changing. However, the refractivity of the water is adaptively changed depending on the salinity, temperature, depth or other underwater environmental indexes, which inevitably generate the calibration errors and induces incorrectness e.g., for underwater Simultaneously Localization and Mapping (SLAM). To address this issue, in this paper, we propose a new underwater Camera-Inertial Measurement Unit (IMU) calibration model, which just needs to be calibrated once in the air, and then both the intrinsic parameters and extrinsic parameters between the camera and IMU could be automatically calculated depending on the environment indexes. To our best knowledge, this is the first work to consider the underwater Camera-IMU calibration via environmental indexes. We also build a verification platform to validate the effectiveness of our proposed method on real experiments, and use it for underwater monocular Visual-Inertial SLAM.


Title: Multimodal Semantic SLAM with Probabilistic Data Association
Abstract: The recent success of object detection systems motivates object-based representations for robot navigation; i.e. semantic simultaneous localization and mapping (SLAM). The semantic SLAM problem can be decomposed into a discrete inference problem: determining object class labels and measurement-landmark correspondences (the data association problem), and a continuous inference problem: obtaining the set of robot poses and object locations in the environment. A solution to the semantic SLAM problem necessarily addresses this joint inference, but under ambiguous data associations this is in general a non-Gaussian inference problem, while the majority of previous work focuses on Gaussian inference. Previous solutions to data association either produce solutions between potential hypotheses or maintain multiple explicit hypotheses for each association. We propose a solution that represents hypotheses as multiple modes of an equivalent non-Gaussian sensor model. We then solve the resulting non-Gaussian inference problem using nonparametric belief propagation. We validate our approach in a simulated hallway environment under a variety of sensor noise characteristics, as well as using real data from the KITTI dataset, demonstrating improved robustness to perceptual aliasing and odometry uncertainty.


Title: ATLAS FaST: Fast and Simple Scheduled TDOA for Reliable Ultra-Wideband Localization
Abstract: The ever increasing need for precise location estimation in robotics is challenging a significant amount of research. Hence, new applications such as wireless localization based aerial robot control or high precision personal safety tracking are developed. However, most of the current developments and research solely focus on the accuracy of the required localization systems. Multi-user scalability, energy efficiency and real-time capabilities are often neglected. This work aims to overcome the technology barrier by providing scalable, high accuracy, real-time localization through energy-efficient, scheduled time-difference of arrival channel access. We could show that simultaneous processing and provisioning of more than a thousand localization results per second with high reliability is possible using the proposed approach. To enable wide-spread adoption, we provide an open source implementation of our system for the robot operating system (ROS). Furthermore, we provide open source access to the raw data created during our evaluation.


Title: DSNet: Joint Learning for Scene Segmentation and Disparity Estimation
Abstract: Recently, research works have attempted the joint prediction of scene semantics and optical flow estimation, which demonstrate the mutual improvement between both tasks. Besides, the depth information is also indispensable for the scene understanding, and disparity estimation is necessary for outputting dense depth maps. Such task shares a great similarity with the optical flow estimation since they can all be cast into a problem of capturing the difference at a location of two image frames. However, as far as we know, currently there are few networks for the joint learning of semantic and disparity. Moreover, since deep semantic information and disparity feature maps can learn from each other, we find it unnecessary with two independent encoding modules to separately extract semantic and disparity features. Therefore, we propose a unified multi-tasking architecture DSNet, for the simultaneous estimation of semantic and disparity information. In our model, semantic features, extracted by the encoding module ResNet from the left and right images, are used to obtain the deep disparity features via a novel matching module which performs pixel-to-pixel matching. In addition, we also use the disparity map to perform warp operation on deep features of the right image to deal with the problem of lacking of semantic labels. The effectiveness of our method is demonstrated by extensive experiments.


Title: An Autonomous Loop-Closure Approach for Simultaneous Exploration and Coverage of Unknown Infrastructure Using MAVs
Abstract: The recent proliferation of low-cost Micro Aerial Vehicles (MAV) offers an attractive means for inspecting critical infrastructure autonomously. However, to enable such autonomous tasks requires a precise spatial model of the structure and operational area, typically constructed using sensor measurements obtained from the environment. To facilitate autonomous inspection capabilities, we address the problem of autonomous MAV exploration and coverage of an unknown structure to acquire the spatial information necessary for the development of a high-fidelity 3D model of the structure. Key to this problem is to not only cover the entire structure to acquire a complete set of spatial measurements, but also to minimize accumulative data errors during the exploration through direct planning of loop closures. We introduce a real-time waypoint planning approach to guide MAV motions to achieve complete exploration, coverage, and loop closure while respecting limited onboard resources.


Title: Point Cloud Compression for 3D LiDAR Sensor using Recurrent Neural Network with Residual Blocks
Abstract: The use of 3D LiDAR, which has proven its capabilities in autonomous driving systems, is now expanding into many other fields. The sharing and transmission of point cloud data from 3D LiDAR sensors has broad application prospects in robotics. However, due to the sparseness and disorderly nature of this data, it is difficult to compress it directly into a very low volume. A potential solution is utilizing raw LiDAR data. We can rearrange the raw data from each frame losslessly in a 2D matrix, making the data compact and orderly. Due to the special structure of 3D LiDAR data, the texture of the 2D matrix is irregular, in contrast to 2D matrices of camera images. In order to compress this raw, 2D formatted LiDAR data efficiently, in this paper we propose a method which uses a recurrent neural network and residual blocks to progressively compress one frame's information from 3D LiDAR. Compared to our previous image compression based method and generic octree point cloud compression method, the proposed approach needs much less volume while giving the same decompression accuracy. Potential application scenarios for point cloud compression are also considered in this paper. We describe how decompressed point cloud data can be used with SLAM (simultaneous localization and mapping) as well as for localization using a given map, illustrating potential uses of the proposed method in real robotics applications.


Title: Integrated Mapping and Path Planning for Very Large-Scale Robotic (VLSR) Systems
Abstract: This paper develops a decentralized approach for mapping and information-driven path planning for Very Large Scale Robotic (VLSR) systems. In this approach, obstacle mapping is performed using a continuous probabilistic representation known as a Hilbert map, which formulates the mapping problem as a binary classification task and uses kernel logistic regression to train a discriminative classifier online. A novel Hilbert map fusion method is presented that quickly and efficiently combines the information from individual robot maps. An integrated mapping and path planning algorithm is presented to determine paths of maximum information value, while simultaneously performing obstacle avoidance. Furthermore, the effect of how percentage communication failure effects the overall performance of the system is investigated. The approach is demonstrated on a VLSR system with hundreds of robots that must map obstacles collaboratively over a large region of interest using onboard range sensors and no prior obstacle information. The results show that, through fusion and decentralized processing, the entropy of the map decreases over time and robot paths remain collision-free.


Title: Non-Gaussian SLAM utilizing Synthetic Aperture Sonar
Abstract: Synthetic Aperture Sonar (SAS) is a technique to improve the spatial resolution from a moving set of receivers by extending the array in time, increasing the effective array length and aperture. This technique is limited by the accuracy of the receiver position estimates, necessitating highly accurate, typically expensive aided-inertial navigation systems for submerged platforms. We leverage simultaneous localization and mapping to fuse acoustic and navigational measurements and obtain accurate pose estimates even without the benefit of absolute positioning for lengthy underwater missions. We demonstrate a method of formulating the well-known SAS problem in a SLAM framework, using acoustic data from hydrophones to simultaneously estimate platform and beacon position. An empirical probability distribution is computed from a conventional beamformer to correctly account for uncertainty in the acoustic measurements. The non-parametric method relieves the familiar Gaussian-only assumption currently used in the localization and mapping discipline and fits effectively into a factor graph formulation with conventional factors such as ground-truth priors and odometry. We present results from field experiments performed on the Charles River with an autonomous surface vehicle which demonstrate simultaneous localization of an unknown acoustic beacon and vehicle positioning, and provide comparison to GPS ground truths.


Title: Underwater Terrain Reconstruction from Forward-Looking Sonar Imagery
Abstract: In this paper, we propose a novel approach for underwater simultaneous localization and mapping using a multibeam imaging sonar for 3D terrain mapping tasks. The high levels of noise and the absence of elevation angle information in sonar images present major challenges for data association and accurate 3D mapping. Instead of repeatedly projecting extracted features into Euclidean space, we apply optical flow within bearing-range images for tracking extracted features. To deal with degenerate cases, such as when tracking is interrupted by noise, we model the subsea terrain as a Gaussian Process random field on a Chow-Liu tree. Terrain factors are incorporated into the factor graph, aimed at smoothing the terrain elevation estimate. We demonstrate the performance of our proposed algorithm in a simulated environment, which shows that terrain factors effectively reduce estimation error. We also show ROV experiments performed in a variable-elevation tank environment, where we are able to construct a descriptive and smooth height estimate of the tank bottom.


Title: Using comanipulation with active force feedback to undistort stiffness perception in laparoscopy
Abstract: Surgeons performing laparoscopic surgery experience distortion when perceiving the stiffness of a patient's tissues. This is due to the lever effect induced by the introduction of instruments in their patient's body through a fulcrum. To address this problem, we propose to use the comanipulation paradigm. A robotic device is connected to the handle of the instrument while simultaneously being held by the surgeon. This device applies a force on the handle that reflects the force measured at the tool tip, with a gain that depends on the lever ratio. The implementation of this method is presented on an experimental setup and a preliminary assessment experiment is presented.


Title: DeepFusion: Real-Time Dense 3D Reconstruction for Monocular SLAM using Single-View Depth and Gradient Predictions
Abstract: While the keypoint-based maps created by sparse monocular Simultaneous Localisation and Mapping (SLAM) systems are useful for camera tracking, dense 3D reconstructions may be desired for many robotic tasks. Solutions involving depth cameras are limited in range and to indoor spaces, and dense reconstruction systems based on minimising the photometric error between frames are typically poorly constrained and suffer from scale ambiguity. To address these issues, we propose a 3D reconstruction system that leverages the output of a Convolutional Neural Network (CNN) to produce fully dense depth maps for keyframes that include metric scale. Our system, DeepFusion, is capable of producing real-time dense reconstructions on a GPU. It fuses the output of a semi-dense multiview stereo algorithm with the depth and gradient predictions of a CNN in a probabilistic fashion, using learned uncertainties produced by the network. While the network only needs to be run once per keyframe, we are able to optimise for the depth map with each new frame so as to constantly make use of new geometric constraints. Based on its performance on synthetic and real world datasets, we demonstrate that DeepFusion is capable of performing at least as well as other comparable systems.


Title: How Shall I Drive? Interaction Modeling and Motion Planning towards Empathetic and Socially-Graceful Driving
Abstract: While intelligence of autonomous vehicles (AVs) has significantly advanced in recent years, accidents involving AVs suggest that these autonomous systems lack gracefulness in driving when interacting with human drivers. In the setting of a two-player game, we propose model predictive control based on social gracefulness, which is measured by the discrepancy between the actions taken by the AV and those that could have been taken in favor of the human driver. We define social awareness as the ability of an agent to infer such favorable actions based on knowledge about the other agent's intent, and further show that empathy, i.e., the ability to understand others' intent by simultaneously inferring others' understanding of the agent's self intent, is critical to successful intent inference. Lastly, through an intersection case, we show that the proposed gracefulness objective allows an AV to learn more sophisticated behavior, such as passive-aggressive motions that gently force the other agent to yield.


Title: Vibration Control for Manipulators on a Translationally Flexible Base
Abstract: In this contribution the problem of vibration control is studied on the basis of a fundamental oscillatory system consisting of a mass spring system and an additional mass. The proposed control strategy couples the orbits of the two masses such that both masses stop, while simultaneously stabilizing the second mass to a desired equilibrium. Using a coordinate and input transformation, the control strategy is directly transferred to an n-link manipulator mounted on a base with linear translational stiffness. Using semidefinite Lyapunov functions and a conditional stability argument, it is shown that the proposed control strategy damps out base vibrations, while additionally achieving a desired configuration in the task-space. Finally, the proposed method is compared to a state-of-the-art approach using numerical simulations.


Title: Improving the Robustness of Visual-Inertial Extended Kalman Filtering
Abstract: Visual-inertial navigation methods have been shown to be an effective, low-cost way to operate autonomously without GPS or other global measurements, however most filtering approaches to VI suffer from observability and consistency problems. To increase robustness of the state-of-the-art methods, we propose a three-fold improvement. First, we propose the addition of a linear drag term in the velocity dynamics which improves estimation accuracy. Second, we propose the use of a partial-update formulation which limits the effect of linearization errors in partially-observable states, such as sensor biases. Finally, we propose the use of a keyframe reset step to enforce observability and consistency of the normally unobservable position and heading states. While all of these concepts have been used independently in the past, our experiments demonstrate additional strength when they are used simultaneously in a visual-inertial state estimation problem. In this paper, we derive the proposed filter and use a Monte Carlo simulation experiment to analyze the response of visual-inertial Kalman filters with the above described additions. The results of this study show that the combination of all of these features significantly improves estimation accuracy and consistency.


Title: Towards Fully Dense Direct Filter-Based Monocular Visual-Inertial Odometry
Abstract: We propose a fully dense direct filter-based visual-inertial odometry method estimating both pixel depth for all pixels and robot state simultaneously, having all uncertainties in the same state vector. Due to the fully dense method, our approach works even in low-textured areas with very low, smooth gradients (i.e. scenes where feature based or semi-dense approaches fail). Our algorithm performs in real-time on a CPU with a time complexity linearly dependent on the amount of pixels in the provided image. To achieve this, we propose complexity reduction methods for fast matrix inversion, exploiting specific structures of the covariance matrix. We provide both simulated and real-world results in low-textured areas with a smooth gradient.


Title: Adaptive H∞ Controller for Precise Manoeuvring of a Space Robot
Abstract: A space robot working in a controlled-floating mode can be used for performing in-orbit telescope assembly through simultaneously controlling the motion of the spacecraft base and its robotic arm. Handling and assembling optical mirrors requires the space robot to achieve slow and precise manoeuvres regardless of the disturbances and errors in the trajectory. The robustness offered by the nonlinear H∞ controller, in the presence of environmental disturbances and parametric uncertainties, makes it a viable solution. However, using fixed tuning parameters for this controller does not always result in the desired performance as the arm's trajectory is not known a priori for orbital assembly missions. In this paper, a complete study on the impact of the different tuning parameters is performed and a new adaptive H∞ controller is developed based on bounded functions. The simulation results presented show that the proposed adaptive H∞ controller guarantees robustness and precise tracking using a minimal amount of forces and torques for assembly operations using a small space robot.


Title: Self-supervised Learning for Single View Depth and Surface Normal Estimation
Abstract: In this work we present a self-supervised learning framework to simultaneously train two Convolutional Neural Networks (CNNs) to predict depth and surface normals from a single image. In contrast to most existing frameworks which represent outdoor scenes as fronto-parallel planes at piece-wise smooth depth, we propose to predict depth with surface orientation while assuming that natural scenes have piece-wise smooth normals. We show that a simple depth-normal consistency as a soft-constraint on the predictions is sufficient and effective for training both these networks simultaneously. The trained normal network provides state-of-the-art predictions while the depth network, relying on much realistic smooth normal assumption, outperforms the traditional self-supervised depth prediction network by a large margin on the KITTI benchmark.


Title: Global Localization with Object-Level Semantics and Topology
Abstract: Global localization lies at the heart of autonomous navigation and Simultaneous Localization and Mapping (SLAM). The appearance-based approach has been successful, but still faces many open challenges in environments where visual conditions vary significantly over time. In this paper, we propose an integrated solution to leverage object-level dense semantics and spatial understanding of the environment for global localization. Our approach models an environment with 3D dense semantics, semantic graph and their topology. This object-level representation is then used for place recognition via semantic object association, followed by 6-DoF pose estimation by the semantic-level point alignment. Extensive experiments show that our approach can achieve robust global localization under extreme appearance changes. It is also capable of coping with other challenging scenarios, such as dynamic environments and incomplete query observations.


Title: Look No Deeper: Recognizing Places from Opposing Viewpoints under Varying Scene Appearance using Single-View Depth Estimation
Abstract: Visual place recognition (VPR) - the act of recognizing a familiar visual place - becomes difficult when there is extreme environmental appearance change or viewpoint change. Particularly challenging is the scenario where both phenomena occur simultaneously, such as when returning for the first time along a road at night that was previously traversed during the day in the opposite direction. While such problems can be solved with panoramic sensors, humans solve this problem regularly with limited field-of-view vision and without needing to constantly turn around. In this paper, we present a new depth- and temporal-aware visual place recognition system that solves the opposing viewpoint, extreme appearance-change visual place recognition problem. Our system performs sequence-to-single frame matching by extracting depth-filtered keypoints using a state-of-the-art depth estimation pipeline, constructing a keypoint sequence over multiple frames from the reference dataset, and comparing these keypoints to the keypoints extracted from a single query image. We evaluate the system on a challenging benchmark dataset and show that it consistently outperforms state-of-the-art techniques. We also develop a range of diagnostic simulation experiments that characterize the contribution of depth-filtered keypoint sequences with respect to key domain parameters including the degree of appearance change and camera motion.


Title: CNN-SVO: Improving the Mapping in Semi-Direct Visual Odometry Using Single-Image Depth Prediction
Abstract: Reliable feature correspondence between frames is a critical step in visual odometry (VO) and visual simultaneous localization and mapping (V-SLAM) algorithms. In comparison with existing VO and V-SLAM algorithms, semi-direct visual odometry (SVO) has two main advantages that lead to state-of-the-art frame rate camera motion estimation: direct pixel correspondence and efficient implementation of probabilistic mapping method. This paper improves the SVO mapping by initializing the mean and the variance of the depth at a feature location according to the depth prediction from a single-image depth prediction network. By significantly reducing the depth uncertainty of the initialized map point (i.e., small variance centred about the depth prediction), the benefits are twofold: reliable feature correspondence between views and fast convergence to the true depth in order to create new map points. We evaluate our method with two outdoor datasets: KITTI dataset and Oxford Robotcar dataset. The experimental results indicate that improved SVO mapping results in increased robustness and camera tracking accuracy. The implementation of this work is available at https: //github.com/yan99033/CNN-SVO.


Title: A Unified Framework for Mutual Improvement of SLAM and Semantic Segmentation
Abstract: This paper presents a novel framework for simultaneously implementing localization and segmentation, which are two of the most important vision-based tasks for robotics. While the goals and techniques used for them were considered to be different previously, we show that by making use of the intermediate results of the two modules, their performance can be enhanced at the same time. Our framework is able to handle both the instantaneous motion and long-term changes of instances in localization with the help of the segmentation result, which also benefits from the refined 3D pose information. We conduct experiments on various datasets, and prove that our framework works effectively on improving the precision and robustness of the two tasks and outperforms existing localization and segmentation algorithms.


Title: Surfel-Based Dense RGB-D Reconstruction With Global And Local Consistency
Abstract: Achieving high surface reconstruction accuracy in dense mapping has been a desirable target for both robotics and vision communities. In the robotics literature, simultaneous localization and mapping (SLAM) systems use RGB-D cameras to reconstruct a dense map of the environment. They leverage the depth input to provide accurate local pose estimation and a locally consistent model. However, drift in the pose tracking over time leads to misalignments and artifacts. On the other hand, offline computer vision methods, such as the pipeline that combines structure-from-motion (SfM) and multi-view stereo (MVS), estimate the camera poses by performing batch optimization. These methods achieve global consistency, but suffer from heavy computation loads. We propose a novel approach that integrates both methods to achieve locally and globally consistent reconstruction. First, we estimate poses of keyframes in the offline SfM pipeline to provide strong global constraints at relatively low cost. Afterwards, we compute odometry between frames driven by off-the-shelf SLAM systems with high local accuracy. We fuse the two pose estimations using factor graph optimization to generate accurate camera poses for dense reconstruction. Experiments on real-world and synthetic datasets demonstrate that our approach produces more accurate models comparing to existing dense SLAM systems, while achieving significant speedup with respect to state-of-the-art SfM-MVS pipelines.


Title: Recursive Bayesian Classification for Perception of Evolving Targets using a Gaussian Toroid Prediction Model
Abstract: This paper proposes a probabilistic framework for classification of evolving targets, leveraging the principles of recursive Bayesian estimation in a perception-oriented context. By implementing a Gaussian toroid prediction model of the perception target's evolution, the proposed recursive Bayesian classification (RBC) scheme provides probabilistically robust classification. Appropriate features are extracted from the target, which is then probabilistically represented in a belief space. This approach is capable of handling high-dimensional belief spaces, while simultaneously allowing for multi-Gaussian representation of belief without computational complexity that hinders real-time analysis. The proposed technique is validated over several parameter values by thousands of simulated experiments, where it is shown to outperform naıve classification when high observational uncertainty is present.


Title: Tightly-Coupled Aided Inertial Navigation with Point and Plane Features
Abstract: This paper presents a tightly-coupled aided inertial navigation system (INS) with point and plane features, a general sensor fusion framework applicable to any visual and depth sensor (e.g., RGBD, LiDAR) configuration, in which the camera is used for point feature tracking and depth sensor for plane extraction. The proposed system exploits geometrical structures (planes) of the environments and adopts the closest point (CP) for plane parameterization. Moreover, we distinguish planar point features from non-planar point features in order to enforce point-on-plane constraints which are used in our state estimator, thus further exploiting structural information from the environment. We also introduce a simple but effective plane feature initialization algorithm for feature-based simultaneous localization and mapping (SLAM). In addition, we perform online spatial calibration between the IMU and the depth sensor as it is difficult to obtain this critical calibration parameter in high precision. Both Monte-Carlo simulations and real-world experiments are performed to validate the proposed approach.


Title: Admittance Control for Human-Robot Interaction Using an Industrial Robot Equipped with a F/T Sensor
Abstract: We present an approach to safe physical Human-Robot Interaction (pHRI) for industrial robots, including collision detection, distinguishing accidental from intentional contacts, and achieving collaborative tasks. Typical industrial robots have a closed control architecture that accepts only velocity/position reference inputs, there are no joint torque sensors, and little or no information is available to the user on robot dynamics and on low-level joint controllers. Nonetheless, taking also advantage of the presence of a Force/Torque (F/T) sensor at the end-effector, a safe pHRI strategy based on kinematic information, on measurements from joint encoders and motor currents, and on end-effector forces/torques can be realized. An admittance control law has been implemented for collaboration in manual guidance mode, with whole-body collision detection in place both when the robot is in autonomous operation and when is simultaneously collaborating with a human. Several pHRI experiments validate the approach on a KUKA KR5 Sixx R650 robot equipped with an ATI F/T sensor.


Title: Workspace CPG with Body Pose Control for Stable, Directed Vision during Omnidirectional Locomotion
Abstract: In this paper, we focus on the problem of directing the gaze of a vision system mounted to the body of a high-degree-of-freedom (DOF) legged robot for active perception deployments. In particular, we consider the case where the vision system is rigidly attached to the robot's body (i.e., without any additional DOF between the vision system and robot body) and show how the supernumerary DOFs of the robot can be leveraged to allow independent locomotion and gaze control. Specifically, we augment a workspace central pattern generator (CPG) with omnidirectional capabilities by coupling it with a body pose control mechanism. We leverage the smoothing nature of the CPG framework to allow online adaptation of relevant locomotion parameters, and obtain a stable mid-level controller that translates desired gaze orientation and body velocity directly into joint angles. We validate our approach on an 18-DOF hexapod robot, in a series of indoor and outdoor trials, where the robot inspects an environmental feature or follows a pre-planned path relative to a visually-tracked landmark, demonstrating simultaneous locomotion and directed vision.


Title: Beyond Photometric Loss for Self-Supervised Ego-Motion Estimation
Abstract: Accurate relative pose is one of the key components in visual odometry (VO) and simultaneous localization and mapping (SLAM). Recently, the self-supervised learning framework that jointly optimizes the relative pose and target image depth has attracted the attention of the community. Previous works rely on the photometric error generated from depths and poses between adjacent frames, which contains large systematic error under realistic scenes due to reflective surfaces and occlusions. In this paper, we bridge the gap between geometric loss and photometric loss by introducing the matching loss constrained by epipolar geometry in a self-supervised framework. Evaluated on the KITTI dataset, our method outperforms the state-of-the-art unsupervised egomotion estimation methods by a large margin. The code and data are available at https://github.com/hlzz/DeepMatchVO.


Title: Activity recognition in manufacturing: The roles of motion capture and sEMG+inertial wearables in detecting fine vs. gross motion
Abstract: In safety-critical environments, robots need to reliably recognize human activity to be effective and trust-worthy partners. Since most human activity recognition (HAR) approaches rely on unimodal sensor data (e.g. motion capture or wearable sensors), it is unclear how the relationship between the sensor modality and motion granularity (e.g. gross or fine) of the activities impacts classification accuracy. To our knowledge, we are the first to investigate the efficacy of using motion capture as compared to wearable sensor data for recognizing human motion in manufacturing settings. We introduce the UCSD-MIT Human Motion dataset, composed of two assembly tasks that entail either gross or fine-grained motion. For both tasks, we compared the accuracy of a Vicon motion capture system to a Myo armband using three widely used HAR algorithms. We found that motion capture yielded higher accuracy than the wearable sensor for gross motion recognition (up to 36.95%), while the wearable sensor yielded higher accuracy for fine-grained motion (up to 28.06%). These results suggest that these sensor modalities are complementary, and that robots may benefit from systems that utilize multiple modalities to simultaneously, but independently, detect gross and fine-grained motion. Our findings will help guide researchers in numerous fields of robotics including learning from demonstration and grasping to effectively choose sensor modalities that are most suitable for their applications.


Title: Build your own hybrid thermal/EO camera for autonomous vehicle
Abstract: In this work, we propose a novel paradigm to design a hybrid thermal/EO (Electro-Optical or visible-light) camera, whose thermal and RGB frames are pixel-wisely aligned and temporally synchronized. Compared with the existing schemes, we innovate in three ways in order to make it more compact in dimension, and thus more practical and extendable for real-world applications. The first is a redesign of the structure layout of the thermal and EO cameras. The second is on obtaining a pixel-wise spatial registration of the thermal and RGB frames by a coarse mechanical adjustment and a fine alignment through a constant homography warping. The third innovation is on extending one single hybrid camera to a hybrid camera array, through which we can obtain wide-view spatially aligned thermal, RGB and disparity images simultaneously. The experimental results show that the average error of spatial-alignment of two image modalities can be less than one pixel.


Title: UWB/LiDAR Fusion For Cooperative Range-Only SLAM
Abstract: We equip an ultra-wideband (UWB) node and a 2D LiDAR sensor a.k.a. 2D laser rangefinder on a mobile robot, and place UWB beacon nodes at unknown locations in an unknown environment. All UWB nodes can do ranging with each other thus forming a cooperative sensor network. We propose to fuse the peer-to-peer ranges measured between UWB nodes and laser scanning information, i.e., range measured between robot and nearby objects/obstacles, for simultaneous localization of the robot, all UWB beacons and LiDAR mapping. The fusion is inspired by two facts: 1) LiDAR may improve UWB-only localization accuracy as it gives a more precise and comprehensive picture of the surrounding environment; 2) on the other hand, UWB ranging measurements may remove the error accumulated in the LiDAR-based SLAM algorithm. Our experiments demonstrate that UWB/LiDAR fusion enables drift-free SLAM in real-time based on ranging measurements only.


Title: Vision-Based Dynamic Control of Car-Like Mobile Robots
Abstract: Most existing controllers for Car-Like Mobile Robots (CLMR) are designed to handle dynamic effects by decoupling speed and steering controls, also assume that full states are accessible, which are unrealistic for real-world applications. This paper presents a combined speed and steering control system for CLMR. To provide the essential state for the controller, a newly developed visual algorithm is adopted for estimating the high-update rate longitudinal and lateral velocities of the robot which cannot be accurately measured by wheel encoders due to the skidding and slipping effects. The stability of the proposed system can be guaranteed by Lyapunov method since the velocity estimation error, the speed tracking error and the lateral deviation converging to zero simultaneously. Real-world experiments are conducted on an electric autonomous tractor with online estimation to demonstrate the feasibility of the approach.


Title: Interaction-aware Multi-agent Tracking and Probabilistic Behavior Prediction via Adversarial Learning
Abstract: In order to enable high-quality decision making and motion planning of intelligent systems such as robotics and autonomous vehicles, accurate probabilistic predictions for surrounding interactive objects is a crucial prerequisite. Although many research studies have been devoted to making predictions on a single entity, it remains an open challenge to forecast future behaviors for multiple interactive agents simultaneously. In this work, we take advantage of the Generative Adversarial Network (GAN) due to its capability of distribution learning and propose a generic multi-agent probabilistic prediction and tracking framework which takes the interactions among multiple entities into account, in which all the entities are treated as a whole. However, since GAN is very hard to train, we make an empirical research and present the relationship between training performance and hyperparameter values with a numerical case study. The results imply that the proposed model can capture both the mean, variance and multi-modalities of the groundtruth distribution. Moreover, we apply the proposed approach to a real-world task of vehicle behavior prediction to demonstrate its effectiveness and accuracy. The results illustrate that the proposed model trained by adversarial learning can achieve a better prediction performance than other state-of-the-art models trained by traditional supervised learning which maximizes the data likelihood. The well-trained model can also be utilized as an implicit proposal distribution for particle filtered based Bayesian state estimation.


Title: Skill Acquisition via Automated Multi-Coordinate Cost Balancing
Abstract: We propose a learning framework, named Multi-Coordinate Cost Balancing (MCCB), to address the problem of acquiring point-to-point movement skills from demonstrations. MCCB encodes demonstrations simultaneously in multiple differential coordinates that specify local geometric properties. MCCB generates reproductions by solving a convex optimization problem with a multi-coordinate cost function and linear constraints on the reproductions, such as initial, target, and via points. Further, since the relative importance of each coordinate system in the cost function might be unknown for a given skill, MCCB learns optimal weighting factors that balance the cost function. We demonstrate the effectiveness of MCCB via detailed experiments conducted on one handwriting dataset and three complex skill datasets.


Title: Active Multi-Contact Continuous Tactile Exploration with Gaussian Process Differential Entropy
Abstract: In the present work, we propose an active tactile exploration framework to obtain a surface model of an unknown object utilizing multiple contacts simultaneously. To incorporate these multiple contacts, the exploration strategy is based on the differential entropy of the underlying Gaussian process implicit surface model, which formalizes the exploration with multiple contacts within an information theoretic context and additionally allows for nonmyopic multi-step planning. In contrast to many previous approaches, the robot continuously slides along the surface with its end-effectors to gather the tactile stimuli, instead of touching it at discrete locations. This is realized by closely integrating the surface model into the compliant controller framework. Furthermore, we extend our recently proposed sliding based tactile exploration approach to handle non-convex objects. In the experiments, it is shown that multiple contacts simultaneously leads to a more efficient exploration of complex, non-convex objects, not only in terms of time, but also with respect to the total moved distance of all end-effectors. Finally, we demonstrate our methodology with a real PR2 robot that explores an object with both of its arms.


Title: UWStereoNet: Unsupervised Learning for Depth Estimation and Color Correction of Underwater Stereo Imagery
Abstract: Stereo cameras are widely used for sensing and navigation of underwater robotic systems. They can provide high resolution color views of a scene; the constrained camera geometry enables metrically accurate depth estimation; they are also relatively cost-effective. Traditional stereo vision algorithms rely on feature detection and matching to enable triangulation of points for estimating disparity. However, for underwater applications, the effects of underwater light propagation lead to image degradation, reducing image quality and contrast. This makes it especially challenging to detect and match features, especially from varying viewpoints. Recently, deep learning has shown success in end-to-end learning of dense disparity maps from stereo images. Still, many state-of-the-art methods are supervised and require ground truth depth or disparity, which is challenging to gather in subsea environments. Simultaneously, deep learning has also been applied to the problem of underwater image restoration. Again, it is difficult or impossible to gather real ground truth data for this problem. In this work, we present an unsupervised deep neural network (DNN) that takes input raw color underwater stereo imagery and outputs dense depth maps and color corrected imagery of underwater scenes. We leverage a model of the process of underwater image formation, image processing techniques, as well as the geometric constraints inherent to the stereo vision problem to develop a modular network that outperforms existing methods.


Title: Proximity Human-Robot Interaction Using Pointing Gestures and a Wrist-mounted IMU
Abstract: We present a system for interaction between co-located humans and mobile robots, which uses pointing gestures sensed by a wrist-mounted IMU. The operator begins by pointing, for a short time, at a moving robot. The system thus simultaneously determines: that the operator wants to interact; the robot they want to interact with; and the relative pose among the two. Then, the system can reconstruct pointed locations in the robot's own reference frame, and provide real-time feedback about them so that the user can adapt to misalignments. We discuss the challenges to be solved to implement such a system and propose practical solutions, including variants for fast flying robots and slow ground robots. We report different experiments with real robots and untrained users, validating the individual components and the system as a whole.


Title: An Extrinsic Calibration Tool for Radar, Camera and Lidar
Abstract: We present a novel open-source tool for extrinsic calibration of radar, camera and lidar. Unlike currently available offerings, our tool facilitates joint extrinsic calibration of all three sensing modalities on multiple measurements. Furthermore, our calibration target design extends existing work to obtain simultaneous measurements for all these modalities. We study how various factors of the calibration procedure affect the outcome on real multi-modal measurements of the target. Three different configurations of the optimization criterion are considered, namely using error terms for a minimal amount of sensor pairs, or using terms for all sensor pairs with additional loop closure constraints, or by adding terms for structure estimation in a probabilistic model. The experiments further evaluate how the number of calibration boards affect calibration performance, and robustness against different levels of zero mean Gaussian noise. Our results show that all configurations achieve good results for lidar to camera errors and that fully connected pose estimation shows the best performance for lidar to radar errors when more than five board locations are used.


Title: A Depth Camera-Based Soft Fingertip Device for Contact Region Estimation and Perception-Action Coupling
Abstract: As the demand for robotic applications in unconstrained and dynamic environments rises, so does the benefit of advancing the state of the art in soft robotic technologies. However, the complex capabilities of soft robots elicited by their high-dimensional, non-linear characteristics simultaneously yield difficult challenges in control and sensing. Moreover, embedding tactile sensing capabilities in soft materials is often expensive and difficult to fabricate. In recent years, however, the invention of small-scale depth-sensing cameras introduced a promising channel for soft tactile sensor design. In this work, we propose a novel soft device inspired by the human fingertip that not only utilizes a small depth camera as the perception mechanism, but also possesses compliance-modulating capabilities. We demonstrate its ability to accurately estimate contact regions upon interaction with an external obstacle, and show that the estimation sensitivity can be modulated via internal fluid states. In addition, we determine an empirical model of the device's force-deformation characteristics under simplifying assumptions, and validate its performance with real-time force matching control experiments.


Title: Early Failure Detection of Deep End-to-End Control Policy by Reinforcement Learning
Abstract: We propose the use of Bayesian networks, which provide both a mean value and an uncertainty estimate as output, to enhance the safety of learned control policies under circumstances in which a test-time input differs significantly from the training set. Our algorithm combines reinforcement learning and end-to-end imitation learning to simultaneously learn a control policy as well as a threshold over the predictive uncertainty of the learned model, with no hand-tuning required. Corrective action, such as a return of control to the model predictive controller or human expert, is taken before the failure of tasks, when the uncertainty threshold is exceeded. We validate our method on fully-observable and vision-based partially-observable systems using cart-pole and autonomous driving simulations using deep convolutional Bayesian neural networks. We demonstrate that our method is robust to uncertainty resulting from varying system dynamics as well as from partial state observability.


Title: A Constraint Programming Approach to Simultaneous Task Allocation and Motion Scheduling for Industrial Dual-Arm Manipulation Tasks
Abstract: Modern lightweight dual-arm robots bring the physical capabilities to quickly take over tasks at typical industrial workplaces designed for workers. Low setup times - including the instructing/specifying of new tasks - are crucial to stay competitive. We propose a constraint programming approach to simultaneous task allocation and motion scheduling for such industrial manipulation and assembly tasks. Our approach covers the robot as well as connected machines. The key concept are Ordered Visiting Constraints, a descriptive and extensible model to specify such tasks with their spatiotemporal requirements and combinatorial or ordering constraints. Our solver integrates such task models and robot motion models into constraint optimization problems and solves them efficiently using various heuristics to produce makespan-optimized robot programs. For large manipulation tasks with 200 objects, our solver implemented using Google's Operations Research tools requires less than a minute to compute usable plans. The proposed task model is robot-independent and can easily be deployed to other robotic platforms. This portability is validated through several simulation-based experiments.


Title: Complete and Near-Optimal Path Planning for Simultaneous Sensor-Based Inspection and Footprint Coverage in Robotic Crack Filling
Abstract: A simultaneous robotic footprint and sensor coverage planning scheme is proposed to efficiently detect all the unknown targets with range sensors and cover the targets with the robot's footprint in a structured environment. The proposed online Sensor-based Complete Coverage (online SCC) planning minimizes the total traveling distance of the robot, guarantees the complete sensor coverage of the whole free space, and achieves near-optimal footprint coverage of all the targets. The planning strategy is applied to a crack-filling robotic prototype to detect and fill all the unknown cracks on ground surfaces. Simulation and experimental results are presented that confirm the efficiency and effectiveness of the proposed online planning algorithm.


Title: Towards Semi-Autonomous and Soft-Robotics Enabled Upper-Limb Exoprosthetics: First Concepts and Robot-Based Emulation Prototype
Abstract: In this paper the first robot-based prototype of a semi-autonomous upper-limb exoprosthesis is introduced, unifying exoskeletons and prostheses [1]. A central goal of this work is to minimize unnecessary interaction forces on the residual limb by compensating gravity effects via a upper body grounded exoskeleton. Furthermore, the exoskeleton provides the residual limb's kinematic data that allows to design more intelligent coordinated control concepts. The soft-robotics design of a prototype consisting of a transhumeral prosthesis and a robot-based exoskeleton substitute is outlined. For this class of hybrid systems a human embodied dynamics model and semi-autonomous coordinated motion strategies are derived. Here, in contrast to established standard sequential strategies all joints are moved simultaneously according to a desired task. In combination with an app-based programming framework the strategy goals are set either user-based via kinesthetic teaching or autonomously via 3D visual perception. This enables the user to execute tasks faster and more intuitive. First experimental evaluations show promising performance with a healthy subject.


Title: Flappy Hummingbird: An Open Source Dynamic Simulation of Flapping Wing Robots and Animals
Abstract: Insects and hummingbirds exhibit extraordinary flight performance and can simultaneously master seemingly conflicting goals: stable hovering and aggressive maneuvering, which are unmatched by conventional small scale man-made vehicles. Flapping Wing Micro Air Vehicles (FWMAVs) hold great promise for closing this performance gap. However, design and control of such systems remain challenging. Here, we present an open source high fidelity dynamic simulation for FWMAVs. The simulator serves as a testbed for the design, optimization and flight control of FWMAVs. To validate the simulation, we recreated the at-scale hummingbird robot developed in our lab in the simulation. System identification was performed to obtain the model parameters. Force generation and dynamic response of open-loop and closed loop systems between simulated and experimental flights were compared. The unsteady aerodynamics and the highly nonlinear flight dynamics present challenging control problems for conventional and learning control algorithms such as Reinforcement Learning. The interface of the simulation is fully compatible with OpenAI Gym environment. As a benchmark study, we present a linear controller for hovering stabilization and a Deep Reinforcement Learning control policy for goal-directed maneuvering. Finally, we demonstrate direct simulation-to-real transfer of both control policies onto the physical robot, further demonstrating the fidelity of the simulation.


Title: RCM-SLAM: Visual localisation and mapping under remote centre of motion constraints
Abstract: In robotic surgery the motion of instruments and the laparoscopic camera is constrained by their insertion ports, i. e. a remote centre of motion (RCM). We propose a Simultaneous Localisation and Mapping (SLAM) approach that estimates laparoscopic camera motion under RCM constraints. To achieve this we derive a minimal solver for the absolute camera pose given two 2D-3D point correspondences (RCM-PnP) and also a bundle adjustment optimiser that refines camera poses within an RCM-constrained parameterisation. These two methods are used together with previous work on relative pose estimation under RCM [1] to assemble a SLAM pipeline suitable for robotic surgery. Our simulations show that RCM-PnP outperforms conventional PnP for a wide noise range in the RCM position. Results with video footage from a robotic prostatectomy show that RCM constraints significantly improve camera pose estimation.


Title: Guaranteed Globally Optimal Planar Pose Graph and Landmark SLAM via Sparse-Bounded Sums-of-Squares Programming
Abstract: Autonomous navigation requires an accurate model or map of the environment. While dramatic progress in the prior two decades has enabled large-scale simultaneous localization and mapping (SLAM), the majority of existing methods rely on non-linear optimization techniques to find the maximum likelihood estimate (MLE) of the robot trajectory and surrounding environment. These methods are prone to local minima and are thus sensitive to initialization. Several recent papers have developed optimization algorithms for the Pose-Graph SLAM problem that can certify the optimality of a computed solution. Though this does not guarantee a priori that this approach generates an optimal solution, a recent extension has shown that when the noise lies within a critical threshold that the solution to the optimization algorithm is guaranteed to be optimal. To address the limitations of existing approaches, this paper illustrates that the Pose-Graph SLAM and Landmark SLAM can be formulated as polynomial optimization programs that are sum-of-squares (SOS) convex. This paper then describes how the Pose-Graph and Landmark SLAM problems can be solved to a global minimum without initialization regardless of noise level using the sparse bounded degree sum-of-squares (Sparse-BSOS) optimization method. Finally, the superior performance of the proposed approach when compared to existing SLAM methods is illustrated on graphs with several hundred nodes.


Title: Egocentric Vision-based Future Vehicle Localization for Intelligent Driving Assistance Systems
Abstract: Predicting the future location of vehicles is essential for safety-critical applications such as advanced driver assistance systems (ADAS) and autonomous driving. This paper introduces a novel approach to simultaneously predict both the location and scale of target vehicles in the first-person (egocentric) view of an ego-vehicle. We present a multi-stream recurrent neural network (RNN) encoder-decoder model that separately captures both object location and scale and pixel-level observations for future vehicle localization. We show that incorporating dense optical flow improves prediction results significantly since it captures information about motion as well as appearance change. We also find that explicitly modeling future motion of the ego-vehicle improves the prediction accuracy, which could be especially beneficial in intelligent and automated vehicles that have motion planning capability. To evaluate the performance of our approach, we present a new dataset of first-person videos collected from a variety of scenarios at road intersections, which are particularly challenging moments for prediction because vehicle trajectories are diverse and dynamic. Code and dataset have been made available at: https://usa.honda-ri.com/hevi.


Title: Semantic Mapping for View-Invariant Relocalization
Abstract: We propose a system for visual simultaneous localization and mapping (SLAM) that combines traditional local appearance-based features with semantically meaningful object landmarks to achieve both accurate local tracking and highly view-invariant object-driven relocalization. Our mapping process uses a sampling-based approach to efficiently infer the 3D pose of object landmarks from 2D bounding box object detections. These 3D landmarks then serve as a view-invariant representation which we leverage to achieve camera relocalization even when the viewing angle changes by more than 125 degrees. This level of view-invariance cannot be attained by local appearance-based features (e.g. SIFT) since the same set of surfaces are not even visible when the viewpoint changes significantly. Our experiments show that even when existing methods fail completely for viewpoint changes of more than 70 degrees, our method continues to achieve a relocalization rate of around 90%, with a mean rotational error of around 8 degrees.


Title: Real-Time Monocular Object-Model Aware Sparse SLAM
Abstract: Simultaneous Localization And Mapping (SLAM) is a fundamental problem in mobile robotics. While sparse point-based SLAM methods provide accurate camera localization, the generated maps lack semantic information. On the other hand, state of the art object detection methods provide rich information about entities present in the scene from a single image. This work incorporates a real-time deep-learned object detector to the monocular SLAM framework for representing generic objects as quadrics that permit detections to be seamlessly integrated while allowing the real-time performance. Finer reconstruction of an object, learned by a CNN network, is also incorporated and provides a shape prior for the quadric leading further refinement. To capture the structure of the scene, additional planar landmarks are detected by a CNN-based plane detector and modelled as independent landmarks in the map. Extensive experiments support our proposed inclusion of semantic objects and planar structures directly in the bundle-adjustment of SLAM - Semantic SLAM- that enriches the reconstructed map semantically, while significantly improving the camera localization.


Title: Probabilistic Projective Association and Semantic Guided Relocalization for Dense Reconstruction
Abstract: We present a real-time dense mapping system which uses the predicted 2D semantic labels for optimizing the geometric quality of reconstruction. With a combination of Convolutional Neural Networks (CNNs) for 2D labeling and a Simultaneous Localization and Mapping (SLAM) system for camera trajectory estimation, recent approaches have succeeded in incrementally fusing and labeling 3D scenes. However, the geometric quality of the reconstruction can be further improved by incorporating such semantic prediction results, which is not sufficiently exploited by existing methods. In this paper, we propose to use semantic information to improve two crucial modules in the reconstruction pipeline, namely tracking and loop detection, for obtaining mutual benefits in geometric reconstruction and semantic recognition. Specifically for tracking, we use a novel probabilistic projective association approach to efficiently pick out candidate correspondences, where the confidence of these correspondences is quantified concerning similarities on all available short-term invariant features. For the loop detection, we incorporate these semantic labels into the original encoding through Randomized Ferns to generate a more comprehensive representation for retrieving candidate loop frames. Evaluations on a publicly available synthetic dataset have shown the effectiveness of our approach that considers such semantic hints as a reliable feature for achieving higher geometric quality.


Title: GraspFusion: Realizing Complex Motion by Learning and Fusing Grasp Modalities with Instance Segmentation
Abstract: Recent progress of deep learning improved the capability of a robot to find a proper grasp of a novel object for different grasp modalities (e.g., pinch and suction). While these previous studies consider multiple modalities separately, several studies develop multi-modal grippers that can achieve simultaneous pinch and suction grasp (multi-modal grasp fusion) for more capable and stable object manipulation. However, the previous studies with these grippers restrict the situations: simple object geometry and uncluttered environments. To overcome these difficulties, we propose a system that consists of: 1) object-class-agnostic grasp modality detection; 2) object-class-agnostic instance segmentation; and 3) grasp template matching for different modalities. The key idea of our work is the introduction of instance segmentation to fuse multiple modalities regarding each instance eluding a grasp of multiple objects at once. In the experiments, we evaluated the proposed system on the real-world picking task in clutter. The experimental results show that the effectiveness of modality detection, instance segmentation, and the integrated system as a whole.


Title: Handling robot constraints within a Set-Based Multi-Task Priority Inverse Kinematics Framework
Abstract: Set-Based Multi-Task Priority is a recent framework to handle inverse kinematics for redundant structures. Both equality tasks, i.e., control objectives to be driven to a desired value, and set-bases tasks, i.e., control objectives to be satisfied with a set/range of values can be addressed in a rigorous manner within a priority framework. In addition, optimization tasks, driven by the gradient of a proper function, may be considered as well, usually as lower priority tasks. In this paper the proper design of the tasks, their priority and the use of a Set-Based Multi-Task Priority framework is proposed in order to handle several constraints simultaneously in real-time. It is shown that safety related tasks such as, e.g., joint limits or kinematic singularity, may be properly handled by consider them both at an higher priority as set-based task and at a lower within a proper optimization functional. Experimental results on a 7DOF Jaco2 arm with and without the proposed approach show the effectiveness of the proposed method.


Title: Hierarchical optimization for Whole-Body Control of Wheeled Inverted Pendulum Humanoids
Abstract: In this paper, we present a whole-body control framework for Wheeled Inverted Pendulum (WIP) Humanoids. WIP Humanoids are redundant manipulators dynamically balancing themselves on wheels. Characterized by several degrees of freedom, they have the ability to perform several tasks simultaneously, such as balancing, maintaining a body pose, controlling the gaze, lifting a load or maintaining end-effector configuration in operation space. The problem of whole-body control is to enable simultaneous performance of these tasks with optimal participation of all degrees of freedom at specified priorities for each objective. The control also has to obey constraint of angle and torque limits on each joint. The proposed approach is hierarchical with a low level controller for body joints manipulation and a high-level controller that defines center of mass (CoM) targets for the low-level controller to control zero dynamics of the system driving the wheels. The low-level controller plans for shorter horizons while considering more complete dynamics of the system, while the high-level controller plans for longer horizon based on an approximate model of the robot for computational efficiency.


Title: Algorithmic Resolution of Multiple Impacts in Nonsmooth Mechanical Systems with Switching Constraints
Abstract: We present a differential-algebraic formulation with switching constraints to model the nonsmooth dynamics of robotic systems subject to changing constraints and multiple impacts. The formulation combines a single structurally simple governing equation, a set of switching kinematic constraints, and the plastic impact law, to represent the dynamics of robots that interact with their environment. The main contribution of this formulation is a novel algorithmic impact resolution method which provides an explicit solution to the classical plastic impact law in the case of multiple simultaneous impacts. This method serves as an alternative to prior linear-complementarity-based formulations which offer an implicit impact resolution through iterative calculation. We demonstrate the utility of the proposed method by simulating the locomotion of a planar anthropometric biped.


Title: Rigid Body Motion Prediction with Planar Non-convex Contact Patch
Abstract: We present a principled method for motion prediction via dynamic simulation for rigid bodies in intermittent contact with each other where the contact is assumed to be a planar non-convex contact patch. The planar non-convex contact patch can either be a topologically connected set or disconnected set. Such algorithms are useful in planning and control for robotic manipulation. Most work in rigid body dynamic simulation assume that the contact between objects is a point contact, which may not be valid in many applications. In this paper, by using the convex hull of the contact patch, we build on our recent work on simulating rigid bodies with convex contact patches, for simulating motion of objects with planar non-convex contact patches. We formulate a discrete-time mixed complementarity problem where we solve the contact detection and integration of the equations of motion simultaneously. Thus, our method is a geometrically-implicit method and we prove that in our formulation, there is no artificial penetration between the contacting rigid bodies. We solve for the equivalent contact point (ECP) and contact impulse of each contact patch simultaneously along with the state, i.e., configuration and velocity of the objects. We provide empirical evidence to show that our method can seamlessly capture transition between different contact modes like patch contact to multiple or single point contact during simulation.


