total paper: 294
Title: Morphology-Specific Convolutional Neural Networks for Tactile Object Recognition with a Multi-Fingered Hand
Abstract: Distributed tactile sensors on multi-fingered hands can provide high-dimensional information for grasping objects, but it is not clear how to optimally process such abundant tactile information. The current paper explores the possibility of using a morphology-specific convolutional neural network (MS-CNN). uSkin tactile sensors are mounted on an Allegro Hand, which provides 720 force measurements (15 patches of uSkin modules with 16 triaxial force sensors each) in addition to 16 joint angle measurements. Consecutive layers in the CNN get input from parts of one finger segment, one finger, and the whole hand. Since the sensors give 3D (x, y, z) vector tactile information, inputs with 3 channels (x, y and z) are used in the first layer, based on the idea of such inputs for RGB images from cameras. Overall, the layers are combined, resulting in the building of a tactile map based on the relative position of the tactile sensors on the hand. Seven different combination variations were evaluated, and an over-95% object recognition rate with 20 objects was achieved, even though only one random time instance from a repeated squeezing motion of an object in an unknown pose within the hand was used as input.


Title: FMD Stereo SLAM: Fusing MVG and Direct Formulation Towards Accurate and Fast Stereo SLAM
Abstract: We propose a novel stereo visual SLAM framework considering both accuracy and speed at the same time. The framework makes full use of the advantages of key-feature-based multiple view geometry (MVG) and direct-based formulation. At the front-end, our system performs direct formulation and constant motion model to predict a robust initial pose, reprojects local map to find 3D-2D correspondence and finally refines pose by the reprojection error minimization. This frontend process makes our system faster. At the back-end, MVG is used to estimate 3D structure. When a new keyframe is inserted, new mappoints are generated by triangulating. In order to improve the accuracy of the proposed system, bad mappoints are removed and a global map is kept by bundle adjustment. Especially, the stereo constraint is performed to optimize the map. This back-end process makes our system more accurate. Experimental evaluation on EuRoC dataset shows that the proposed algorithm can run at more than 100 frames per second on a consumer computer while achieving highly competitive accuracy.


Title: ScalableFusion: High-resolution Mesh-based Real-time 3D Reconstruction
Abstract: Dense 3D reconstructions generate globally consistent data of the environment suitable for many robot applications. Current RGB-D based reconstructions, however, only maintain the color resolution equal to the depth resolution of the used sensor. This firmly limits the precision and realism of the generated reconstructions. In this paper we present a real-time approach for creating and maintaining a surface reconstruction in as high as possible geometrical fidelity with full sensor resolution for its colorization (or surface texture). A multi-scale memory management process and a Level of Detail scheme enable equally detailed reconstructions to be generated at small scales, such as objects, as well as large scales, such as rooms or buildings. We showcase the benefit of this novel pipeline with a PrimeSense RGB-D camera as well as combining the depth channel of this camera with a high resolution global shutter camera. Further experiments show that our memory management approach allows us to scale up to larger domains that are not achievable with current state-of-the-art methods.


Title: MoveIt! Task Constructor for Task-Level Motion Planning
Abstract: A lot of motion planning research in robotics focuses on efficient means to find trajectories between individual start and goal regions, but it remains challenging to specify and plan robotic manipulation actions which consist of multiple interdependent subtasks. The Task Constructor framework we present in this work provides a flexible and transparent way to define and plan such actions, enhancing the capabilities of the popular robotic manipulation framework MoveIt!.11The Task Constructor framework is publicly available at https://github.com/ros-planning/moveit_task_constructor Subproblems are solved in isolation in black-box planning stages and a common interface is used to pass solution hypotheses between stages. The framework enables the hierarchical organization of basic stages using containers, allowing for sequential as well as parallel compositions. The flexibility of the framework is illustrated in multiple scenarios performed on various robot platforms, including bimanual ones.


Title: Large-Scale Multi-Object Rearrangement
Abstract: This paper describes a new robotic tabletop rearrangement system, and presents experimental results. The tasks involve rearranging as many as 30 to 100 blocks, sometimes packed with a density of up to 40%. The high packing factor forces the system to push several objects at a time, making accurate simulation difficult, if not impossible. Nonetheless, the system achieves goals specifying the pose of every object, with an average precision of ± 1 mm and ± 2°. The system searches through policy rollouts of simulated pushing actions, using an Iterated Local Search technique to escape local minima. In real world execution, the system executes just one action from a policy, then uses a vision system to update the estimated task state, and replans. The system accepts a fully general description of task goals, which means it can solve the singulation and separation problems addressed in prior work, but can also solve sorting problems and spell out words, among other things. The paper includes examples of several solved problems, statistical analysis of the system's behavior on different types of problems, and some discussion of limitations, insights, and future work.


Title: Resolved Viscoelasticity Control Considering Singularity for Knee-stretched Walking of a Humanoid
Abstract: This paper describes a stable knee-stretched walking of a humanoid by the resolved viscoelasticity control (RVC). The RVC method resolves multiple viscoelasticities in task-space, including the center of mass viscoelasticity for balancing, into joint-space viscoelasticity. Although a robust and compliant motion was achieved by the RVC method in previous studies, the conventional knee-bent posture to avoid the kinematic singularity suffered large knee joint torque. In this study, we propose an extension of the RVC capable of the kinematic singularity. We demonstrate through simulations and experiments that the RVC method considering the singularity achieves a stable and human-like walking, reducing the knee joint torque and improving the energy efficiency.


Title: A Multi-Domain Feature Learning Method for Visual Place Recognition
Abstract: Visual Place Recognition (VPR) is an important component in both computer vision and robotics applications, thanks to its ability to determine whether a place has been visited and where specifically. A major challenge in VPR is to handle changes of environmental conditions including weather, season and illumination. Most VPR methods try to improve the place recognition performance by ignoring the environmental factors, leading to decreased accuracy decreases when environmental conditions change significantly, such as day versus night. To this end, we propose an end-to-end conditional visual place recognition method. Specifically, we introduce the multi-domain feature learning method (MDFL) to capture multiple attribute-descriptions for a given place, and then use a feature detaching module to separate the environmental condition-related features from those that are not. The only label required within this feature learning pipeline is the environmental condition. Evaluation of the proposed method is conducted on the multi-season NORDLAND dataset, and the multi-weather GTAV dataset. Experimental results show that our method improves the feature robustness against variant environmental conditions.


Title: Intent-Uncertainty-Aware Grasp Planning for Robust Robot Assistance in Telemanipulation
Abstract: Promoting a robot agent's autonomy level, which allows it to understand the human operator's intent and provide motion assistance to achieve it, has demonstrated great advantages to the operator's intent in teleoperation. However, the research has been limited to the target approaching process. We advance the shared control technique one step further to deal with the more challenging object manipulation task. Appropriately manipulating an object is challenging as it requires fine motion constraints for a certain manipulation task. Although these motion constraints are critical for task success, they are subtle to observe from ambiguous human motion. The disembodiment problem and physical discrepancy between the human and robot hands bring additional uncertainty, make the object manipulation task more challenging. Moreover, there is a lack of modeling and planning techniques that can effectively combine the human motion input and robot agent's motion input while accounting for the ambiguity of the human intent. To overcome this challenge, we built a multi-task robot grasping model and developed an intent-uncertainty-aware grasp planner to generate robust grasp poses given the ambiguous human intent inference inputs. With this validated modeling and planning techniques, it is expected to extend teleoperated robots' functionality and adoption in practical telemanipulation scenarios.


Title: An energy-shared two-layer approach for multi-master-multi-slave bilateral teleoperation systems
Abstract: In this paper, a two-layer architecture for the bilateral teleoperation of multi-arms systems with communication delay is presented. We extend the single-master-single-slave two layer approach proposed in [1] by connecting multiple robots to a single energy tank. This allows to minimize the conservativeness due to passivity preservation and to increment the level of transparency that can be achieved. The proposed approach is implemented on a realistic surgical scenario developed within the EU-funded SARAS project.


Title: A defect identification approach of operations for the driving element of multi-duty parallel manipulators
Abstract: In order to improve the machining efficiency and the flexibility of manufacturing system, the study of multi-duty parallel manipulators has attracted the interest of some researchers. In this paper, according to the effects of different operations on the driving element, a demarcation diagram for distinguishing different duties, such as statics, low-speed but heavy-load, high-speed but low-load and high-speed but heavy-load, is proposed, and a defect identification approach to prevent the occurrence of defects for multi-duty parallel manipulators is presented. Taking the 1PU+3UPS parallel manipulator as an instance, an analysis method to the statics and dynamics is investigated by means of the screw theory and the proposed virtual screw. Based on the numerical example, the results show that the classification and practicability of operations can be accurately identified by the proposed demarcation diagram and defect identification approach, respectively.


Title: Exploiting Human and Robot Muscle Synergies for Human-in-the-loop Optimization of EMG-based Assistive Strategies
Abstract: In this study, we propose a novel human-in-the-loop optimization approach for exoskeleton robot control. We develop a method to optimize widely-used Electromyography (EMG)-based assistive strategies. If we use multiple EMG channels to control multi-DoF robots, optimization process becomes complex and requires a large amount of data. To make the optimization tractable, we exploit the synergies both of the human muscles and artificial muscles of the exoskeleton robots to reduce the number of parameters of the assistive strategies. We show that we can extract the synergies not only from the user's muscle activities but from pneumatic artificial muscle (PAMs) contractions of the exoskeleton robot. Then, we adopt a Bayesian optimization method to acquire the parameters for assisting human movements by iteratively identifying the user's preferences of the assistive strategies. We conducted experiments to evaluate our proposed method with a PAMs-driven upper-limb exoskeleton robot. Our method successfully learned assistive strategies from the human-in-theloop optimization with a practicable number of interactions.


Title: Design and Implementation of a Two-DOF Robotic System with an Adjustable Force Limiting Mechanism for Ankle Rehabilitation
Abstract: This paper presents a novel light-weight back-drivable inherently-safe robotic mechanism for delivering ankle rehabilitation therapies. The robot is designed to be used as the ankle module of a multi-purpose lower-limb rehabilitation robot. A novel friction-based safety feature has been introduced that enables mechanical adjustment of the maximum amount of allowable transfer forces and torques to the patient's limb. The design procedure, mathematical modeling and experimental validations are provided to demonstrate the performance of the proposed system.


Title: Rorg: Service Robot Software Management with Linux Containers
Abstract: Scaling up the software system on service robots increases the maintenance burden of developers and the risk of resource contention of the computer embedded on robots. As a result, developers spend much time on configuring, deploying, and monitoring the robot software system; robots may utilize significant computer resources when all software processes are running. We present Rorg, a Linux container-based scheme to manage, schedule, and monitor software components on service robots. Although Linux containers are already widely-used in cloud environments, this technique is challenging to efficiently adopt in service robot systems due to multi-tasking, resource constraints and performance requirements. To pave the way of Linux containers on service robots in an efficient manner, we present a programmable container management interface and a resource time-sharing mechanism incorporated with the Robot Operating System (ROS). Rorg allows developers to pack software into self-contained images and runs them in isolated environments using Linux containers; it also allows the robot to turn on and off software components on demand to avoid resource contention. We evaluate Rorg with a long-term autonomous tour guide robot: It manages 41 software components on the robot and relieved our maintenance burden, and it also reduces CPU load by 45.5% and memory usage by 16.5% on average.


Title: CartesI/O: A ROS Based Real-Time Capable Cartesian Control Framework
Abstract: This work introduces a framework for the Cartesian control of multi-legged, highly redundant robots. The proposed framework allows the untrained user to perform complex motion tasks with robotics platforms by leveraging a simple, auto-generated ROS-based interface. Contrary to other motion control frameworks (e.g. ROS MoveIt!), we focus on the execution of Cartesian trajectories that are specified online, rather than planned in advance, as it is the case, for instance, in tele-operation and locomotion tasks. Moreover, we address the problem of generating such motions within a hard real-time (RT) control loop. Finally, we demonstrate the capabilities of our framework both on the COMAN + humanoid robot, and on the hybrid wheeled-legged quadruped CENTAURO.


Title: Flight Testing Boustrophedon Coverage Path Planning for Fixed Wing UAVs in Wind
Abstract: A method was previously developed by this author to optimise the flight path of a fixed wing UAV performing aerial surveys of complex concave agricultural fields. This relies heavily on a flight time in wind prediction model as its cost function. This paper aims to validate this model by comparing flight test results with the model prediction. There are a number of assumptions that this model relies on. The major assumption is that wind is steady and uniform over the small area and time scales involved in a survey. To show that this is reasonable, wind fields measurements will be taken from a multi rotor UAV with an ultrasonic windspeed sensor.


Title: Real-Time Planning with Multi-Fidelity Models for Agile Flights in Unknown Environments
Abstract: Autonomous navigation through unknown environments is a challenging task that entails real-time localization, perception, planning, and control. UAVs with this capability have begun to emerge in the literature with advances in lightweight sensing and computing. Although the planning methodologies vary from platform to platform, many algorithms adopt a hierarchical planning architecture where a slow, low-fidelity global planner guides a fast, high-fidelity local planner. However, in unknown environments, this approach can lead to erratic or unstable behavior due to the interaction between the global planner, whose solution is changing constantly, and the local planner; a consequence of not capturing higher-order dynamics in the global plan. This work proposes a planning framework in which multi-fidelity models are used to reduce the discrepancy between the local and global planner. Our approach uses high-, medium-, and low-fidelity models to compose a path that captures higher-order dynamics while remaining computationally tractable. In addition, we address the interaction between a fast planner and a slower mapper by considering the sensor data not yet fused into the map during the collision check. This novel mapping and planning framework for agile flights is validated in simulation and hardware experiments, showing replanning times of 5-40 ms in cluttered environments.


Title: Uncertainty Aware Learning from Demonstrations in Multiple Contexts using Bayesian Neural Networks
Abstract: Diversity of environments is a key challenge that causes learned robotic controllers to fail due to the discrepancies between the training and evaluation conditions. Training from demonstrations in various conditions can mitigate - but not completely prevent - such failures. Learned controllers such as neural networks typically do not have a notion of uncertainty that allows to diagnose an offset between training and testing conditions, and potentially intervene. In this work, we propose to use Bayesian Neural Networks, which have such a notion of uncertainty. We show that uncertainty can be leveraged to consistently detect situations in high-dimensional simulated and real robotic domains in which the performance of the learned controller would be sub-par. Also, we show that such an uncertainty based solution allows making an informed decision about when to invoke a fallback strategy. One fallback strategy is to request more data. We empirically show that providing data only when requested results in increased data-efficiency.


Title: Simulating Emergent Properties of Human Driving Behavior Using Multi-Agent Reward Augmented Imitation Learning
Abstract: Recent developments in multi-agent imitation learning have shown promising results for modeling the behavior of human drivers. However, it is challenging to capture emergent traffic behaviors that are observed in real-world datasets. Such behaviors arise due to the many local interactions between agents that are not commonly accounted for in imitation learning. This paper proposes Reward Augmented Imitation Learning (RAIL), which integrates reward augmentation into the multi-agent imitation learning framework and allows the designer to specify prior knowledge in a principled fashion. We prove that convergence guarantees for the imitation learning process are preserved under the application of reward augmentation. This method is validated in a driving scenario, where an entire traffic scene is controlled by driving policies learned using our proposed algorithm. Further, we demonstrate improved performance in comparison to traditional imitation learning algorithms both in terms of the local actions of a single agent and the behavior of emergent properties in complex, multi-agent settings.


Title: 3D Printed Soft Pneumatic Actuators with Intent Sensing for Hand Rehabilitative Exoskeletons*
Abstract: Loss of functional motor skills are common and often require patients to undergo rehabilitation so that they have a chance at motor recovery. Advancement in technology has seen to a rise in the use of robotic technology in conducting rehabilitative exercises that are traditionally carried out by physiotherapists. In recent years, soft robotic exoskeletons, using pneumatic-based actuation in particular, have gained much interest due to their compliant characteristics and safe operating conditions. In order to carry out complex task-based rehabilitative exercises, these soft pneumatic actuators must ideally be able to move with multiple degrees of freedom or minimally, in a bidirectional motion. Majority of the research covering soft actuators can only achieve finger flexion with some providing passive finger extension. Non-invasive intent detection in the control of these exoskeletons is also lacking in sensing both finger flexion and extension. In this paper we present our work on a fold-based bidirectional 3D printed intent-sensing soft pneumatic actuator (ISPA) that can achieve bidirectional motion and provide intent detection for finger flexion and extension for application in upper limb rehabilitative exoskeletons.


Title: Gaze-based, Context-aware Robotic System for Assisted Reaching and Grasping
Abstract: Assistive robotic systems endeavour to support those with movement disabilities, enabling them to move again and regain functionality. Main issue with these systems is the complexity of their low-level control, and how to translate this to simpler, higher level commands that are easy and intuitive for a human user to interact with. We have created a multi-modal system, consisting of different sensing, decision making and actuating modalities, leading to intuitive, human-in-the-loop assistive robotics. The system takes its cue from the user's gaze, to decode their intentions and implement low-level motion actions to achieve high-level tasks. This results in the user simply having to look at the objects of interest, for the robotic system to assist them in reaching for those objects, grasping them, and using them to interact with other objects. We present our method for 3D gaze estimation, and grammars-based implementation of sequences of action with the robotic system. The 3D gaze estimation is evaluated with 8 subjects, showing an overall accuracy of 4.68\pm 0.14cm. The full system is tested with 5 subjects, showing successful implementation of 100% of reach to gaze point actions and full implementation of pick and place tasks in 96%, and pick and pour tasks in 76% of cases. Finally we present a discussion on our results and what future work is needed to improve the system.


Title: Towards Learning Abstract Representations for Locomotion Planning in High-dimensional State Spaces
Abstract: Ground robots which are able to navigate a variety of terrains are needed in many domains. One of the key aspects is the capability to adapt to the ground structure, which can be realized through movable body parts coming along with additional degrees of freedom (DoF). However, planning respective locomotion is challenging since suitable representations result in large state spaces. Employing an additional abstract representation-which is coarser, lower-dimensional, and semantically enriched-can support the planning. While a desired robot representation and action set of such an abstract representation can be easily defined, the cost function requires large tuning efforts. We propose a method to represent the cost function as a CNN. Training of the network is done on generated artificial data, while it generalizes well to the abstraction of real world scenes. We further apply our method to the problem of search-based planning of hybrid driving-stepping locomotion. The abstract representation is used as a powerful informed heuristic which accelerates planning by multiple orders of magnitude.


Title: A Scalable Framework For Real-Time Multi-Robot, Multi-Human Collision Avoidance
Abstract: Robust motion planning is a well-studied problem in the robotics literature, yet current algorithms struggle to operate scalably and safely in the presence of other moving agents, such as humans. This paper introduces a novel framework for robot navigation that accounts for high-order system dynamics and maintains safety in the presence of external disturbances, other robots, and humans. Our approach precomputes a tracking error margin for each robot, generates confidence-aware human motion predictions, and coordinates multiple robots with a sequential priority ordering, effectively enabling scalable safe trajectory planning and execution. We demonstrate our approach in hardware with two robots and two humans, and showcase scalability in a larger simulation.


Title: Lazy Evaluation of Goal Specifications Guided by Motion Planning
Abstract: Nowadays robotic systems are expected to share workspaces and collaborate with humans. In such collaborative environments, an important challenge is to ground or establish the correct semantic interpretation of a human request. Once such an interpretation is available, the request must be translated into robot motion commands in order to complete the desired task. It is not unusual that a human request cannot be grounded to a unique interpretation, thus leading to an ambiguous request. A simple example is to ask a robot to “put a cup on the table,” when there are multiple cups available. In order to deal with this kind of ambiguous request, we propose a delayed or lazy variable grounding. The focus of this paper is a motion planning algorithm that, given goal regions that represent different valid groundings, lazily finds a feasible path to any one valid grounding. This algorithm includes a reward-penalty strategy, which attempts to prioritize those goal regions that seem more promising to provide a solution. We validate our approach by solving requests with multiple valid alternatives in both simulation and real-world experiments.


Title: An Algorithm for Odor Source Localization based on Source Term Estimation
Abstract: Finding sources of airborne chemicals with mobile sensing systems finds applications across the security, safety, domestic, medical, and environmental domains. In this paper, we present an algorithm based on source term estimation for odor source localization that is coupled with a navigation method based on partially observable Markov decision processes. We propose an innovative strategy to balance exploration and exploitation in navigation. The method has been evaluated systematically through high-fidelity simulations and in a wind tunnel emulating realistic and repeatable conditions. The impact of multiple algorithmic and environmental parameters has been studied in the experiments.


Title: Feasible coordination of multiple homogeneous or heterogeneous mobile vehicles with various constraints
Abstract: We consider the problem of feasible coordination control for multiple homogeneous or heterogeneous mobile vehicles subject to various constraints (nonholonomic motion constraints, holonomic coordination constraints, equality/inequality constraints etc). We develop a general framework involving differential-algebraic equations and viability theory to describe and determine coordination feasibility for a coordinated motion control under heterogeneous vehicle dynamics and various constraints. A heuristic algorithm is proposed for generating feasible trajectories for each individual vehicle. We show several application examples and simulation experiments on multi-vehicle coordination under various constraints to validate the theory and the effectiveness of the proposed algorithm and control schemes.


Title: Turn-minimizing multirobot coverage
Abstract: Multirobot coverage is the problem of planning paths for several identical robots such that the combined regions traced out by the robots completely cover their environment. We consider the problem of multirobot coverage with the objective of minimizing the mission time, which depends on the number of turns taken by the robots. To solve this problem, we first partition the environment into ranks which are long thin rectangles the width of the robot's coverage tool. Our novel partitioning heuristic produces a set of ranks which minimizes the number of turns. Next, we solve a variant of the multiple travelling salesperson problem (m-TSP) on the set of ranks to minimize the robots' mission time. The resulting coverage plan is guaranteed to cover the entire environment. We present coverage plans for a robotic vacuum using real maps of 25 indoor environments and compare the solutions to paths planned without the objective of minimizing turns. Turn minimization reduced the number of turns by 6.7% and coverage time by 3.8% on average for teams of 1-5 robots.


Title: Efficient Kinodynamic Multi-Robot Replanning in Known Workspaces
Abstract: In this work, we consider the problem of online centralized kinodynamic multi-robot replanning (from potentially non-stationary initial states) and coordination in known and cluttered workspaces. Offline state lattice reachability analysis is leveraged to decouple the planning problem into two sequential graph searches-one in the explicit geometric graph of the environment and the other in the graph of the higher-order derivatives of the robot's state-in a manner such that the intermediate vertices of a safe set of geometric paths are guaranteed to have a feasible assignment of higher-order derivatives. Without additional iterative refinement procedures, the resulting time parameterized polynomial trajectories are dynamically feasible and collision-free. Planning results with up to 20 robots in two and three dimensional workspaces suggest the suitability of the proposed approach for multi-robot replanning in known environments.


Title: Cannot avoid penalty? Let’s minimize
Abstract: Multi-robot systems are deployed in a warehouse to automate the process of storing and retrieving objects in and out of the warehouse. The efficiency of the system largely depends on how the tasks are allocated to the robots. Though there exists a number of techniques that can perform multi-robot task allocation quite efficiently, they hardly consider deadline for task completion while assigning tasks to the robots. A careful allocation is of paramount importance when there is an associated penalty with each of the tasks if it is not completed within a stipulated time. In this work, we develop an algorithm, called Minimum Penalty Scheduling (MPS) that allocates tasks among a group of robots with the goal that the overall penalty of executing all the tasks can be minimized. Our algorithm provides a robust, scalable, and near-optimal real-time task schedule. By comparing with the state-of-the-art algorithm, we show that MPS attracts up to 62.5% less penalty when a significant number of tasks are bound to miss the deadline. Additionally, MPS is also suitable for real-time multi-processor scheduling since it schedules a higher number of tasks within their deadline.


Title: Dynamically-consistent Generalized Hierarchical Control
Abstract: Tracking multiple prioritized tasks simultaneously with redundant robots have been investigated extensively over the last decades. Recent research focuses on combining advantages from both classical soft and strict prioritization schemes which is non-trivial. Among the proposed methods to tackle this issue, Generalized Hierarchical Control (GHC) seems to have a reasonable performance, however, it does not include a weighting matrix in the computation of the nullspace projection operator and hence cannot construct dynamically-consistent stack-of-tasks hierarchies as a special case. We extend GHC by adding dynamic-consistency to the control scheme and refer to it as DynGHC. The extension is also advantageous when choosing non-strict priorities because inertia coupling between tasks is reduced. DynGHC allows to smoothly rearrange priorities which is important for robots acting in dynamically changing contexts. Comparative simulations with a 4 DOF planar manipulator and a KUKA LWR validate our approach. Matlab and C++ source code is made available.


Title: Model Reference Adaptive Control of a Two-Wheeled Mobile Robot
Abstract: The inverted pendulum is by nature a dynamically unstable system and may be subjected to severe disturbances due to its environmental or loading conditions. This paper formulates a design for a nonlinear controller to balance a two-wheeled mobile robot (TWMR) based on Model Reference Adaptive Control. The proposed solution overcomes the limitations of control systems that rely on fixed parameter controllers. Given the nonlinear single-input multi-output (SIMO) nature of the TWMR platform, the proposed adaptive controller can handle non-linearities without the need for linearization, and inherently dealing with SIMO systems. By studying the influence that hidden dynamic effects can cause, we show the preference of the proposed controller over other designs. Simulation results demonstrate the applicability and efficiency of our proposed design, and experimental results validate the effectiveness of the proposed scheme in guaranteeing asymptotic output tracking, even in the presence of unknown disturbances.


Title: Reconfigurable Network for Efficient Inferencing in Autonomous Vehicles
Abstract: We propose a reconfigurable network for efficient inference dedicated to autonomous platforms equipped with multiple perception sensors. The size of the network for steering autonomous platforms grows proportionally to the number of installed sensors eventually preventing the usage of multiple sensors in real-time applications due to an inefficient inference. Our approach hinges on the observation that multiple sensors provide a large stream of data, where only a fraction of the data is relevant for the performed task at any given moment in time. The architecture of the reconfigurable network that we propose contains separate feature extractors, called experts, for each sensor. The decisive block of our model is the gating network, which online decides which sensor provides the data that is most relevant for driving. It then reconfigures the network by activating only the relevant expert corresponding to that sensor and deactivating the remaining ones. As a consequence, the model never extracts features from data that are irrelevant for driving. The gating network takes the data from all inputs and thus to avoid explosion of computation time and memory space it has to be realized as a small and shallow network. We verify our model on the unmanned ground vehicle (UGV) comprising of the 1/6 scale remote control truck equipped with three cameras. We demonstrate that the reconfigurable network correctly chooses experts in real-time allowing the reduction of computations cost for the whole model without deteriorating its performance.


Title: Fast Radar Motion Estimation with a Learnt Focus of Attention using Weak Supervision
Abstract: This paper is about fast motion estimation with scanning radar. We use weak supervision to train a focus of attention policy which actively down-samples the measurement stream before data association steps are undertaken. At training, we avoid laborious manual labelling by exploiting short-term sensor coherence from multiple poses in the presence of an external ego-motion estimator (for example, wheel odometry). In this way, we generate copious annotated measurements which can be used for training a learning algorithm in a weakly-supervised fashion. We demonstrate the validity of the approach in the context of a Radar Odometry (RO) task, pre-filtering raw data with a popular image segmentation network trained as presented. We evaluate our system against 26 km of data collected in Central Oxford and show consistent motion estimation with greatly reduced radar processing times (by a factor of 2.36).


Title: MH-iSAM2: Multi-hypothesis iSAM using Bayes Tree and Hypo-tree
Abstract: A novel nonlinear incremental optimization algorithm MH-iSAM2 is developed to handle ambiguity in simultaneous localization and mapping (SLAM) problems in a multi-hypothesis fashion. It can output multiple possible solutions for each variable according to the ambiguous inputs, which is expected to greatly enhance the robustness of autonomous systems as a whole. The algorithm consists of two data structures: an extension of the original Bayes tree that allows efficient multi-hypothesis inference, and a Hypo-tree that is designed to explicitly track and associate the hypotheses of each variable as well as all the inference processes for optimization. With our proposed hypothesis pruning strategy, MH-iSAM2 enables fast optimization and avoids the exponential growth of hypotheses. We evaluate MH-iSAM2 using both simulated datasets and real-world experiments, demonstrating its improvements on the robustness and accuracy of SLAM systems.


Title: Improving Keypoint Matching Using a Landmark-Based Image Representation
Abstract: Motivated by the need to improve the performance of visual loop closure verification via multi-view geometry (MVG) under significant illumination and viewpoint changes, we propose a keypoint matching method that uses landmarks as an intermediate image representation in order to leverage the power of deep learning. In environments with various changes, the traditional verification method via MVG may encounter difficulty because of their inability to generate a sufficient number of correctly matched keypoints. Our method exploits the excellent invariance properties of convolutional neural network (ConvNet) features, which have shown outstanding performance for matching landmarks between images. By generating and matching landmarks first in the images and then matching the keypoints within the matched landmark pairs, we can significantly improve the quality of matched keypoints in terms of precision and recall measures. The proposed method is validated on challenging datasets that involve significant illumination and viewpoint changes, to establish its superior performance to the standard keypoint matching method.


Title: Learning Robust Manipulation Strategies with Multimodal State Transition Models and Recovery Heuristics
Abstract: Robots are prone to making mistakes when performing manipulation tasks in unstructured environments. Robust policies are thus needed to not only avoid mistakes but also to recover from them. We propose a framework for increasing the robustness of contact-based manipulations by modeling the task structure and optimizing a policy for selecting skills and recovery skills. A multimodal state transition model is acquired based on the contact dynamics of the task and the observed transitions. A policy is then learned from the model using reinforcement learning. The policy is incrementally improved by expanding the action space by generating recovery skills with a heuristic. Evaluations on three simulated manipulation tasks demonstrate the effectiveness of the framework. The robot was able to complete the tasks despite multiple contact state changes and errors encountered, increasing the success rate averaged across the tasks from 70.0% to 95.3%.


Title: Feedback motion planning of legged robots by composing orbital Lyapunov functions using rapidly-exploring random trees
Abstract: We present a sampling-based framework for feedback motion planning of legged robots. Our framework is based on switching between limit cycles at a fixed instance of motion, the Poincaré section (e.g., apex or touchdown), by finding overlaps between the regions of attraction (ROA) of two limit cycles. First, we assume a candidate orbital Lyapunov function (OLF) and define a ROA at the Poincaré section. Next, we solve multiple trajectory optimization problems, one for each sampled initial condition on the ROA to minimize an energy metric and subject to the exponential convergence of the OLF between two steps. The result is a table of control actions and the corresponding initial conditions at the Poincaré section. Then we develop a control policy for each control action as a function of the initial condition using deep learning neural networks. The control policy is validated by testing on initial conditions sampled on ROA of randomly chosen limit cycles. Finally, the rapidly-exploring random tree algorithm is adopted to plan transitions between the limit cycles using the ROAs. The approach is demonstrated on a hopper model to achieve velocity and height transitions between steps.


Title: A Kalman Filter-Based Algorithm for Simultaneous Time Synchronization and Localization in UWB Networks
Abstract: The ability to accurately measure signal time-of-flight between ultra-wideband (UWB) wireless communication transceivers, even in multipath environments, makes this technology ideally suited to develop ranging-based positioning systems, especially for indoor applications where GPS signals are not available. In recent years, low-cost commercial UWB transceivers have become more easily available and increasingly used to develop custom robot positioning systems. In this paper, we focus in particular on positioning techniques requiring the synchronization of base stations such as Time of Arrival (TOA) and Time Difference of Arrival (TDOA). We present a protocol based on Kalman filtering for simultaneous synchronization of multiple UWB base stations and positioning of an arbitrary number of passive UWB receivers. We illustrate experimentally using our protocol and an EKF-based navigation system design the level of accuracy achievable with small low-power UWB modules for mobile robot positioning. We discuss in details measurement errors and system tuning issues applicable to popular commercial UWB transceivers.


Title: CoLo: A Performance Evaluation System for Multi-robot Cooperative Localization Algorithms
Abstract: This paper describes CoLo - a performance evaluation system for two-dimensional cooperative localization algorithms. The system consists of a physical experiment (CoLo-PE) for data collection and a software analysis tool (CoLo-AT) using real-world datasets to evaluate the performances of users' cooperative localization algorithms. This paper details the design and operation of the physical experiment (CoLo-PE) and discusses the functionalities and uses of the software analysis tool (CoLo-AT) for algorithm evaluation. Specifically, CoLo allows researchers to conveniently add their cooperative localization algorithms and test them extensively on different real-world datasets with various settings. CoLo is available at https://git.uclalemur.com/billyskc/CoLo.


Title: Development of a Multi-level Stiffness Soft Robotic Module with Force Haptic Feedback for Endoscopic Applications*
Abstract: Despite the recent advances in soft endoscopes, they could not yet fully fulfill the requirements for minimally invasive and natural orifice transluminal endoscopic surgeries. Maneuverability, bendability, different structural stiffness required for different endoscopic surgical interventions, the space needed for surgical manipulators and patient's safety are amongst the main factors which can contribute to implementing the new soft robotics endoscope in practice. In this study, based on finite element analysis on an existing endoscopic segment, a new improved endoscopic module was developed. A novel approach for stiffening of the endoscopic module was proposed. The actuation and stiffening components were combined to introduce a multi-level stiffening mechanism to the endoscope, and also to provide a free lumen for manipulators. To increase patient's safety, a force sensing module was developed to estimate the magnitude and direction of the force from tissues to the endoscope. The developed endoscopic system was integrated to a haptic control system. The 3D kinematics control and haptic feedback control of the endoscopic module were validated.


Title: EMG-Controlled Non-Anthropomorphic Hand Teleoperation Using a Continuous Teleoperation Subspace
Abstract: We present a method for EMG-driven teleoperation of non-anthropomorphic robot hands. EMG sensors are appealing as a wearable, inexpensive, and unobtrusive way to gather information about the teleoperator's hand pose. However, mapping from EMG signals to the pose space of a non-anthropomorphic hand presents multiple challenges. We present a method that first projects from forearm EMG into a subspace relevant to teleoperation. To increase robustness, we use a model which combines continuous and discrete predictors along different dimensions of this subspace. We then project from the teleoperation subspace into the pose space of the robot hand. Our method is effective and intuitive, as it enables novice users to teleoperate pick and place tasks faster and more robustly than state-of-the-art EMG teleoperation methods when applied to a non-anthropomorphic, multi-DOF robot hand.


Title: Towards an Integrated Autonomous Data-Driven Grasping System with a Mobile Manipulator
Abstract: We present an integrated grasping system for a mobile manipulator to grasp an unknown object of interest (OI) in an unknown environment. The system autonomously scans its environment, models the OI, plans and executes a grasp, while taking into account base pose uncertainty. Due to inherent line of sight limitations in sensing, a single scan of the OI often does not reveal enough information to complete grasp analysis; as a result, our system autonomously builds a model of an object via multiple scans from different locations until a grasp can be performed. A volumetric next-best-view (NBV) algorithm is used to model an arbitrary object and terminates modeling when force closure for the gripper is satisfied. Two experiments are presented: i) modeling and registration error is reduced by selecting viewpoints with more scan overlap, and ii) model reconstruction and grasps are successfully achieved while experiencing base pose uncertainty.


Title: Mechanical Search: Multi-Step Retrieval of a Target Object Occluded by Clutter
Abstract: When operating in unstructured environments such as warehouses, homes, and retail centers, robots are frequently required to interactively search for and retrieve specific objects from cluttered bins, shelves, or tables. Mechanical Search describes the class of tasks where the goal is to locate and extract a known target object. In this paper, we formalize Mechanical Search and study a version where distractor objects are heaped over the target object in a bin. The robot uses an RGBD perception system and control policies to iteratively select, parameterize, and perform one of 3 actions - push, suction, grasp - until the target object is extracted, or either a time limit is exceeded, or no high confidence push or grasp is available. We present a study of 5 algorithmic policies for mechanical search, with 15,000 simulated trials and 300 physical trials for heaps ranging from 10 to 20 objects. Results suggest that success can be achieved in this long-horizon task with algorithmic policies in over 95% of instances and that the number of actions required scales approximately linearly with the size of the heap. Code and supplementary material can be found at http://ai.stanford.edu/mech-search.


Title: Goal-Driven Navigation for Non-holonomic Multi-Robot System by Learning Collision
Abstract: In this paper, we propose the reinforcement learning based multi-robot collision avoidance approach by learning collision. Dynamical path re-planning, which is massively used in classical collision avoidance methods, needs overall information of the environment. Also, training agent robots to avoid the collision and pursue a goal point simultaneously is inefficient since the agent should learn two tasks. As the number of tasks that the agent should learn increases, it is difficult to make the performance of an algorithm consistent, which is known as reproducibility issue. To overcome these limitations, Collision Avoidance by Learning Collision (CALC), which learns collision instead of avoiding an obstacle robot is suggested. To solve the collision avoidance problem efficiently, the proposed method divides the problem into training and planning. In the training algorithm, an agent robot learns how to collide with a single obstacle robot and then generates a trained policy. With the trained policy, the agent can pursue a goal point since the policy leads the agent to `collide' with the goal. Furthermore, by taking action in a reverse way from the trained policy, the agent can avoid multiple obstacle robots in the planning algorithm at once. The proposed method is validated both in the robot simulation and real robot experiment, and compared with the existing collision avoidance method.


Title: Robot Localization Based on Aerial Images for Precision Agriculture Tasks in Crop Fields
Abstract: Localization is a pre-requisite for most autonomous robots. For example, to carry out precision agriculture tasks effectively, a robot must be able to localize itself accurately in crop fields. The crop field environment presents unique challenges such as the highly repetitive structure of the crops leading to visual aliasing as well as the continuously changing appearance of the field, which makes it difficult to localize over time. In this paper, we present a localization system, which uses an aerial map of the field and exploits the semantic information of the crops, weeds, and their stem positions to resolve the visual ambiguity problem and to enable robot localization over extended periods of time. We evaluate our approach on a real field over multiple sessions spanning several weeks. Experiments suggest that our approach provides the necessary accuracy required by precision agriculture applications and works in cases where current techniques using typical visual features tend to fail.


Title: An Approach for Semantic Segmentation of Tree-like Vegetation
Abstract: This paper presents a pipeline for semantic segmentation of trees into their components. Given a single RGB-D image of a tree, we employ a deep network to predict labels to classify each pixel of the tree into trunk, branches, twigs and leaves. Multiple convolutional neural network architectures to combine the complementary modalities of depth and colour data are investigated. An asynchronous training approach where two networks trained separately on RGB and depth encoded as a 3-channel HHA image are combined using a late fusion architecture with different learning rates performs the best. Training and evaluation are performed on a synthetic dataset of 6 species of broadleaf trees. We further demonstrate the network's generalization capabilities, across various tree species on the synthetic dataset, achieving an accuracy of upto 92.5%. Furthermore, we present a qualitative evaluation of our approach on real-world data.


Title: Non-Destructive Robotic Assessment of Mango Ripeness via Multi-Point Soft Haptics
Abstract: To match the ever increasing standards of fresh products, and the need to reduce waste, we devise an alternative to the destructive and highly variable fruit ripeness estimation by a penetrometer. We propose a fully automatic method to assess the ripeness of mango which is non-destructive, allows the user to test multiple surface areas with a single touch and is capable of dissociating between ripe and non-ripe fruits. A custom-made gripper equipped with a capacitive tactile sensor array is used to palpate the fruit. The ripeness is estimated as mango stiffness extracted through a simplified spring model. We test the framework on a set of 25 mangoes of the Keitt variety, and compare the results to penetrometer measurements. We show it is possible to correctly classify 88% of the mango without removing the skin of the fruit. The method can be a valuable substitute for non-destructive fruit ripeness testing. To the authors knowledge, this is the first robotics ripeness estimation system based on capacitive tactile sensing technology.


Title: Design and Experiments for MultI-Section-Transformable (MIST)-UAV
Abstract: Presented in this paper are the design and experiments for a transformable Vertical Take Off and Landing (VTOL) UAV. This work demonstrates shape-shifting transformation, building upon the conceptual designs put forth in [1] and [2], along with hardware prototyping and component testing from [3]. A deterministic model is presented to characterize the flight of the MIST-UAV in simulation. Experimental results from the platform demonstrate for the first time successful in-air transformation from multi-rotor, tail-sitter, and fixed-wing operation. Experiments also validated transformation repeatability, successfully testing multiple sequential transformations.


Title: Online Estimation of Geometric and Inertia Parameters for Multirotor Aerial Vehicles
Abstract: Accurate knowledge of geometric and inertia parameters are a necessity for precise and robust control of aerial vehicles. We propose a novel filter that is able to fuse motor speed, inertia, and pose measurements to estimate the vehicle's key dynamic properties online. The presented framework is able to estimate the multirotor's moment of inertia, mass, center of mass and each sensor module's relative position. Obtaining these estimates in-flight allow the multirotor to be precisely controlled even during tasks such as load transportation or after configuration changes on scene. We provide a nonlinear observability analysis, proving that the presented model is locally weakly observable. Experimental results validate the proposed approach, showing the ability to estimate the dynamic properties accurately and demonstrate its capability to do so even while additional loads are added. The framework is flexible and can easily be adapted to a wide range of applications, including self-calibration, object grasping, and single robot or multi-robot payload transportation.


Title: External Wrench Estimation for Multilink Aerial Robot by Center of Mass Estimator Based on Distributed IMU System
Abstract: External wrench estimation is very helpful for aerial exploration and manipulation tasks. During the exploration, there might be unseen obstacles to cause dangerous collisions. The estimation of the external force and torque is also beneficial in aerial manipulation tasks. In this paper, we present a framework of estimating the external wrench for the aerial multilink robot based on the onboard inertial measurement unit (IMU) sensors, joints state and robot dynamic models. Compared to the conventional multirotor robot, the center of mass (CoM) is always changing when the robot transforms. The sensor could not be attached to CoM to observe the acceleration data. Consequently, we present a novel method by applying a distributed IMU system to estimate the CoM linear and angular accelerations for the external wrench estimation. With the help of the robot model, the position of the contact point could be estimated, which is useful in exploring tasks to safely interact with the physical world. We design the contact-aided navigation strategy and computationally efficient motion primitives library to help our robot react to the unexpected collision. We experimentally validate our framework with a two-dimensional multilink aerial robot to show the results of external wrench estimator and its further applications2.2Experiment video: https://youtu.be/R-WDReLnWWI


Title: Endoscope Force Generation and Intrinsic Sensing with Environmental Scaffolding
Abstract: Endoscopic surgery is an increasingly popular alternative to laparoscopic techniques for many conditions, as the operation site can be reached without skin wounds. In many tasks, sufficient force generation is desired. As endoscopes must be highly flexible and slim, however, the force generation and sensing capabilities associated with these tools is limited due their compliance, significantly hindering the adoption rate of endoscopic surgeries. This paper proposes a technique, termed `environmental scaffolding', to stabilize an actuated, flexible segment in the intestine such that larger forces can be applied. Through the measurement of actuation forces, a method for intrinsically sensing multiple contact forces when in this configuration is presented. Experimental results show that with the environmental scaffolding technique, the tip force generated can be increased by over 50% on average compared to using the device in a purely cantilevered configuration, and the tip force estimation is accurate to within 2.97%.


Title: A Fog Robotic System for Dynamic Visual Servoing
Abstract: Cloud Robotics is a paradigm where multiple robots are connected to cloud services via Internet to access “unlimited” computation power, at the cost of network communication. However, due to limitations such as network latency and variability, it is difficult to control dynamic, human compliant service robots directly from the cloud. In this work, we combine cloud robotics with an agile edge device to build a Fog Robotic system by leveraging an asynchronous protocol with a “heartbeat” signal. We use the system to enable robust teleoperation of a dynamic self-balancing robot from the cloud. We use the system to pick up boxes from static locations, a task commonly performed in warehouse logistics. To make cloud teleoperation more intuitive and efficient, we program a cloud-based image based visual servoing (IBVS) module to automatically assist the cloud teleoperator during the object pickups. Visual feedbacks, including apriltag recognition and tracking, are performed in the cloud to emulate a Fog Robotic object recognition system for IBVS. We demonstrate the feasibility of a dynamic real-time automation system using this cloud-edge hybrid design, which opens up possibilities of deploying dynamic robotic control with deep-learning recognition systems in Fog Robotics. Finally, we show that Fog Robotics enables the self-balancing service robot to pick up a box automatically from a person under unstructured environments.


Title: Approximate Probabilistic Security for Networked Multi-Robot Systems
Abstract: In this paper, we formulate a combinatorial optimization problem that aims to maximize the accuracy of a lower bound estimate of the probability of security of a multi-robot system (MRS), while minimizing the computational complexity involved in its calculation. Security of an MRS is defined using the well-known control theoretic notion of left invertiblility, and the probability of security of an MRS can be calculated using binary decision diagrams (BDDs). The complexity of a BDD depends on the number of disjoint path sets considered during its construction. Taking into account all possible disjoint paths results in an exact probability of security, however, selecting an optimal subset of disjoint paths leads to a good estimate of the probability while significantly reducing computation. To deal with the dynamic nature of MRSs, we introduce two methods: (1) multi-point optimization, a technique that requires some a priori knowledge of the topology of the MRS over time, and (2) online optimization, a technique that does not require a priori knowledge, but must construct BDDs while the MRS is operating. Finally, our approach is validated on an MRS performing a rendezvous objective while exchanging information according to a noisy state agreement process.


Title: A Decentralized Heterogeneous Control Strategy for a Class of Infinitesimally Shape-Similar Formations
Abstract: The sensing modalities available to individual agents in a multi-robot team have a significant effect on what the team can accomplish. Previous work on infinitesimal shape-similarity has shown that maintaining relative angles between robots equipped with bearing-only sensors can render a formation of these robots invariant to translation, rotation, and uniform scaling; however, previous work has not proposed decentralized control strategies for exploiting this invariance. To address this deficiency, this paper proposes a decentralized formation control strategy for assembled triangulations, a class of infinitesimally shape-similar formations. Heterogeneous in terms of sensing and control, a decentralized formation control strategy is developed in which one robot sets the position of the formation, a robot capable of measuring bearings and distances controls the scale and heading, and the remaining robots maintain the assembled triangulation. The asymptotic controllers that compose the formation control strategy of this work are implemented on a team of differential-drive robots.


Title: Asynchronous Network Formation in Unknown Unbounded Environments*
Abstract: In this paper, we study the Online Network Formation Problem (ONFP) for a mobile multi-robot system. Consider a group of robots with a bounded communication range operating in a large open area. One of the robots has a piece of information which has to be propagated to all other robots. What strategy should the robots pursue to disseminate the information to the rest of the robots as quickly as possible? The initial locations of the robots are unknown to each other, therefore the problem must be solved in an online fashion. For this problem, we present an algorithm whose competitive ratio is O(H · max{M, √MH}) for arbitrary robot deployments, where M is the largest edge length in the Euclidean minimum spanning tree on the initial robot configuration and H is the height of the tree. We also study the case when the robot initial positions are chosen uniformly at random and improve the ratio to O(M). Finally, we present simulation results to validate the performance in larger scales and demonstrate our algorithm using three robots in a field experiment.


Title: Switching Topology for Resilient Consensus using Wi-Fi Signals
Abstract: Securing multi-robot teams against malicious activity is crucial as these systems accelerate towards widespread societal integration. This emerging class of “physical networks” requires research into new methods of security that exploit their physical nature. This paper derives a theoretical framework for securing multi-agent consensus against the Sybil attack by using the physical properties of wireless transmissions. Our frame-work uses information extracted from the wireless channels to design a switching signal that stochastically excludes potentially untrustworthy transmissions from the consensus. Intuitively, this amounts to selectively ignoring incoming communications from untrustworthy agents, allowing for consensus to the true average to be recovered with high probability if initiated after a certain observation time T0 that we derive. This work is different from previous work in that it allows for arbitrary malicious node values and is insensitive to the initial topology of the network so long as a connected topology over legitimate nodes in the network is feasible. We show that our algorithm will recover consensus and the true graph over the system of legitimate agents with an error rate that vanishes exponentially with time.


Title: Multi-Vehicle Trajectory optimisation On Road Networks
Abstract: This paper addresses the problem of planning time-optimal trajectories for multiple cooperative agents along specified paths through a static road network. Vehicle interactions at intersections create non-trivial decisions, with complex flow-on effects for subsequent interactions. A globally optimal, minimum time trajectory is found for all vehicles using Mixed Integer Linear Programming (MILP). Computational performance is improved by minimising binary variables using iteratively applied targeted collision constraints, and efficient goal constraints. Simulation results in an open-pit mining scenario compare the proposed method against a fast heuristic method and a reactive approach based on site practices. The heuristic is found to scale better with problem size while the MILP is able to avoid local minima.


Title: Informed Information Theoretic Model Predictive Control
Abstract: The problem of minimizing cost in nonlinear control systems with uncertainties or disturbances remains a major challenge. Model predictive control (MPC), and in particular sampling-based MPC has recently shown great success in complex domains such as aggressive driving with highly nonlinear dynamics. Sampling-based methods rely on a prior distribution to generate samples in the first place. Obviously, the choice of this distribution highly influences efficiency of the controller. Existing approaches such as sampling around the control trajectory of the previous time step perform suboptimally, especially in multi-modal or highly dynamic settings. In this work, we therefore propose to learn models that generate samples in low-cost areas of the state-space, conditioned on the environment and on contextual information of the task to solve. By using generative models as an informed sampling distribution, our approach exploits guidance from the learned models and at the same time maintains robustness properties of the MPC methods. We use Conditional Variational Autoencoders (CVAE) to learn distributions that imitate samples from a training dataset containing optimized controls. An extensive evaluation in the autonomous navigation domain suggests that replacing previous sampling schemes with our learned models considerably improves performance in terms of path quality and planning efficiency.


Title: Multimodal Trajectory Predictions for Autonomous Driving using Deep Convolutional Networks
Abstract: Autonomous driving presents one of the largest problems that the robotics and artificial intelligence communities are facing at the moment, both in terms of difficulty and potential societal impact. Self-driving vehicles (SDVs) are expected to prevent road accidents and save millions of lives while improving the livelihood and life quality of many more. However, despite large interest and a number of industry players working in the autonomous domain, there still remains more to be done in order to develop a system capable of operating at a level comparable to best human drivers. One reason for this is high uncertainty of traffic behavior and large number of situations that an SDV may encounter on the roads, making it very difficult to create a fully generalizable system. To ensure safe and efficient operations, an autonomous vehicle is required to account for this uncertainty and to anticipate a multitude of possible behaviors of traffic actors in its surrounding. We address this critical problem and present a method to predict multiple possible trajectories of actors while also estimating their probabilities. The method encodes each actor's surrounding context into a raster image, used as input by deep convolutional networks to automatically derive relevant features for the task. Following extensive offline evaluation and comparison to state-of-the-art baselines, the method was successfully tested on SDVs in closed-course tests.


Title: Lightweight Contrast Modeling for Attention-Aware Visual Localization
Abstract: Salient object detection, which aims at localizing the attention-aware visual objects, is the indispensable technology for intelligent robots to understand and interact with the complicated environments. Existing salient object detection approaches mainly focus on the optimization of detection performance, while ignoring the considerations for computational resource consumption and algorithm efficiency. Contrarily, we build a superior lightweight network architecture to simultaneously improve performance on both accuracy and efficiency for salient object detection. Specifically, our proposed approach adopts the lightweight bottleneck as its primary building block to significantly reduce the number of parameters and to speed up the process of training and inference. In practice, the visual contrast is insufficiently discovered with the limitation of the small empirical receptive field of CNN. To alleviate this issue, we design a multi-scale convolution module to rapidly discover high-level visual contrast. Moreover, a lightweight refinement module is utilized to restore object saliency details with negligible extra cost. Extensive experiments on efficiency and accuracy trade-offs show that our model is more competitive than the state-of-the-art works on salient object detection task and has prominent potentials for robots applications in real time.


Title: Demonstration-Guided Deep Reinforcement Learning of Control Policies for Dexterous Human-Robot Interaction
Abstract: In this paper, we propose a method for training control policies for human-robot interactions such as handshakes or hand claps via Deep Reinforcement Learning. The policy controls a humanoid Shadow Dexterous Hand, attached to a robot arm. We propose a parameterizable multi-objective reward function that allows learning of a variety of interactions without changing the reward structure. The parameters of the reward function are estimated directly from motion capture data of human-human interactions in order to produce policies that are perceived as being natural and human-like by observers. We evaluate our method on three significantly different hand interactions: handshake, hand clap and finger touch. We provide detailed analysis of the proposed reward function and the resulting policies and conduct a large-scale user study, indicating that our policy produces natural looking motions.


Title: Team-Based Robot Righting via Pushing and Shell Design
Abstract: The minimalist robot designs typically employed in swarms and teams can fall and get trapped when traversing irregular terrain. To protect against this contingency the design could add a specialized escape actuator, but each actuator drives up cost multiplicatively for the whole team. Instead, the emergency actuator can be found for free in the form of another teammate. Teammate pushing can be efficiently directed by careful shaping of the robot's exterior hull. This approach is illustrated by designing a shell for VelociRoACH robots that enables them to roll pronated comrades back onto their feet. The designed maneuver can be performed in open-loop with 87% success and an average time of 0.7 seconds.


Title: Deformation-based shape control with a multirobot system
Abstract: We present a novel method to control the relative positions of the members of a robotic team. The application scenario we consider is the cooperative manipulation of a deformable object in 2D space. A typical goal in this kind of scenario is to minimize the deformation of the object with respect to a desired state. Our contribution, then, is to use a global measure of deformation directly in the feedback loop. In particular, the robot motions are based on the descent along the gradient of a metric that expresses the difference between the team's current configuration and its desired shape. Crucially, the resulting multirobot controller has a simple expression and is inexpensive to compute, and the approach lends itself to analysis of both the transient and asymptotic dynamics of the system. This analysis reveals a number of properties that are interesting for a manipulation task: fundamental geometric parameters of the team (size, orientation, centroid, and distances between robots) can be suitably steered or bounded. We describe different policies within the proposed deformation-based control framework that produce useful team behaviors. We illustrate the methodology with computer simulations.


Title: One-to-many bipartite matching based coalition formation for multi-robot task allocation
Abstract: In this paper, we study the NP-Hard problem of multi-robot coalition formation for task allocation. To tackle this notoriously difficult problem, we model it as a variant of classical bipartite matching, which we call One-To-Many Bipartite Matching (OTMaM). Unlike the classical bipartite matching techniques used for matching a unique robot to a unique task, in the OTMaM problem, we let multiple robots to be matched to a single task while restricting the opposite. To this end, we propose a novel heuristic algorithm that allocates robots to tasks by finding mutually best robot-task pairs. Our algorithm provides a similar theoretical worst-case approximation ratio and guarantees a better worst-case time complexity than a comparable algorithm from the literature. The proposed approach in this paper is proved to be deterministic and the resultant matching is perfect. Simulation results also demonstrate the scalability of the presented algorithm (taking less than 1 millisecond with 100 robots and 10 tasks).


Title: Coordinated multi-robot planning while preserving individual privacy
Abstract: We consider the problem of multiple robots that must cooperate within a shared environment, but which wish to limit the information they disclose during their coordination efforts. Specifically, we examine the problems of privacy-preserving rendezvous and persistent monitoring. In the former, the robots construct a joint plan to have them meet, without either knowing beforehand where or when the meeting will occur. In the latter, multiple robots dynamically cover a region of space-they plan collective motions which are collision-free but with the assurance that agents remain ignorant of the paths of others. Accordingly, the tasks are sort of inverses in that the robots must collectively determine whether their joint paths collide or not, then, using this, achieve their collective task. Other than what is learned by the outcome of the joint-collision determination, the robots possess no details of the other paths. Our approach builds on garbled circuits and homomorphic encryption to realize basic secure path intersection primitives. We present algorithms, a software implementation, and a physical experiment on mobile robots to test the practical feasibility of our approach. We believe that these ideas provide a valuable direction for adoption in small Unmanned Systems belonging to different stakeholders.


Title: Multi-Agent Synchronization Using Online Model-Free Action Dependent Dual Heuristic Dynamic Programming Approach
Abstract: Approximate dynamic programming platforms are employed to solve dynamic graphical games, where the agents interact among each other using communication graphs in order to achieve synchronization. Although the action dependent dual heuristic dynamic programming schemes provide fast solution platforms for several control problems, their capabilities degrade for systems with unknown or uncertain dynamical models. An online model-free adaptive learning solution based on action dependent dual heuristic dynamic programming is proposed to solve the dynamic graphical games. It employs distributed actor-critic neural networks to approximate the optimal value function and the associated model-free control strategy for each agent. This is done using a policy iteration process where it does not employ any extensive computational effort, as traditionally observed. The duality between the model-free coupled Bellman optimality equation and the underlying coupled Riccati equation is highlighted. This is followed by a graph simulation scenario to test the usefulness of the proposed policy iteration process.


Title: Distributed Radiation Field Estimation and Informative Path Planning for Nuclear Environment Characterization
Abstract: This paper details the system and methods designed to enable the autonomous estimation of distributed nuclear radiation fields within complex and possibly GPS-denied environments. A sensing apparatus consisting of three radially placed Thallium-doped Cesium Iodide (CsI(Tl)) scintillators and Silicon Photomultipliers (SiPm) combined with custom- built pulse counting circuitry is designed and the provided readings are pose-annotated using LiDAR-based localization. Given this capacity, a method that utilizes the radiation intensity readings to first calculate the immediate field gradient and then combine this information to update and co-estimate the believed field intensity and gradient across the whole environment is developed. The strategy propagates the effect of each local measurement through field gradient co-estimation and simultaneously derives a model of the underlying uncertainty. To further support the need for informative data gathering, especially in the framework of emergency and rapid reconnaissance missions, a path planning strategy is also developed that first utilizes the field intensity and uncertainty estimates to select its new waypoint and then performs terrain traversability analysis to derive admissible paths. The complete system is evaluated both in simulation and experimentally. The experimental results refer to the autonomous exploration and field estimation inside an indoor facility within which actual radioactive uranium and thorium ore sources have been distributed.


Title: Evaluating Merging Strategies for Sampling-based Uncertainty Techniques in Object Detection
Abstract: There has been a recent emergence of sampling-based techniques for estimating epistemic uncertainty in deep neural networks. While these methods can be applied to classification or semantic segmentation tasks by simply averaging samples, this is not the case for object detection, where detection sample bounding boxes must be accurately associated and merged. A weak merging strategy can significantly degrade the performance of the detector and yield an unreliable uncertainty measure. This paper provides the first in-depth investigation of the effect of different association and merging strategies. We compare different combinations of three spatial and two semantic affinity measures with four clustering methods for MC Dropout with a Single Shot Multi-Box Detector. Our results show that the correct choice of affinity-clustering combination can greatly improve the effectiveness of the classification and spatial uncertainty estimation and the resulting object detection performance. We base our evaluation on a new mix of datasets that emulate near open-set conditions (semantically similar unknown classes), distant open-set conditions (semantically dissimilar unknown classes) and the common closed-set conditions (only known classes).


Title: Leveraging Structural Regularity of Atlanta World for Monocular SLAM
Abstract: A wide range of man-made environments can be abstracted as the Atlanta world. It consists of a set of Atlanta frames with a common vertical (gravitational) axis and multiple horizontal axes orthogonal to this vertical axis. This paper focuses on leveraging the regularity of Atlanta world for monocular SLAM. First, we robustly cluster image lines. Based on these clusters, we compute the local Atlanta frames in the camera frame by solving polynomial equations. Our method provides the global optimum and satisfies inherent geometric constraints. Second, we define the posterior probabilities to refine the initial clusters and Atlanta frames alternately by the maximum a posteriori estimation. Third, based on multiple local Atlanta frames, we compute the global Atlanta frames in the world frame using Kalman filtering. We optimize rotations by the global alignment and then refine translations and 3D line-based map under the directional constraints. Experiments on both synthesized and real data have demonstrated that our approach outperforms state-of-the-art methods.


Title: Multimodal Semantic SLAM with Probabilistic Data Association
Abstract: The recent success of object detection systems motivates object-based representations for robot navigation; i.e. semantic simultaneous localization and mapping (SLAM). The semantic SLAM problem can be decomposed into a discrete inference problem: determining object class labels and measurement-landmark correspondences (the data association problem), and a continuous inference problem: obtaining the set of robot poses and object locations in the environment. A solution to the semantic SLAM problem necessarily addresses this joint inference, but under ambiguous data associations this is in general a non-Gaussian inference problem, while the majority of previous work focuses on Gaussian inference. Previous solutions to data association either produce solutions between potential hypotheses or maintain multiple explicit hypotheses for each association. We propose a solution that represents hypotheses as multiple modes of an equivalent non-Gaussian sensor model. We then solve the resulting non-Gaussian inference problem using nonparametric belief propagation. We validate our approach in a simulated hallway environment under a variety of sensor noise characteristics, as well as using real data from the KITTI dataset, demonstrating improved robustness to perceptual aliasing and odometry uncertainty.


Title: Multimodal Policy Search using Overlapping Mixtures of Sparse Gaussian Process Prior
Abstract: In this paper, we present a novel policy search reinforcement learning algorithm that can deal with multimodality in control policies based on Gaussian processes. Our approach employs Overlapping Mixtures of Gaussian Processes (OMGPs) for a control policy, in which all the GPs in the mixture are global and overlapped in the input space. We first extend the OMGPs by combing sparse pseudo-input GPs as OMSGPs to reduce its computational cost of learning and prediction suitable for policy search. Then, we derive a novel multimodal policy search algorithm based on variational Bayesian inference by placing the OMSGPs as the prior of the multimodal control policy. To validate the effectiveness of our algorithm, we applied it to two typical robotic tasks in simulation: 1) object grasping and 2) table-sweep tasks since they both require the multimodality in the optimal policies. Simulation results demonstrate that our algorithm can efficiently learn multimodal policies even with high dimensional observations.


Title: Data-efficient Learning of Morphology and Controller for a Microrobot
Abstract: Robot design is often a slow and difficult process requiring the iterative construction and testing of prototypes, with the goal of sequentially optimizing the design. For most robots, this process is further complicated by the need, when validating the capabilities of the hardware to solve the desired task, to already have an appropriate controller, which is in turn designed and tuned for the specific hardware. In this paper, we propose a novel approach, HPC-BBO, to efficiently and automatically design hardware configurations, and evaluate them by also automatically tuning the corresponding controller. HPC-BBO is based on a hierarchical Bayesian optimization process which iteratively optimizes morphology configurations (based on the performance of the previous designs during the controller learning process) and subsequently learns the corresponding controllers (exploiting the knowledge collected from optimizing for previous morphologies). Moreover, HPC-BBO can select a “batch” of multiple morphology designs at once, thus parallelizing hardware validation and reducing the number of time-consuming production cycles. We validate HPC-BBO on the design of the morphology and controller for a simulated 6-legged microrobot. Experimental results show that HPC-BBO outperforms multiple competitive baselines, and yields a 360% reduction in production cycles over standard Bayesian optimization, thus reducing the hypothetical manufacturing time of our microrobot from 21 to 4 months.


Title: Generalized Orientation Learning in Robot Task Space
Abstract: In the context of imitation learning, several approaches have been developed so as to transfer human skills to robots, with demonstrations often represented in Cartesian or joint space. While learning Cartesian positions suffices for many applications, the end-effector orientation is required in many others. However, several crucial issues arising from learning orientations have not been adequately addressed yet. For instance, how can demonstrated orientations be adapted to pass through arbitrary desired points that comprise orientations and angular velocities? In this paper, we propose an approach that is capable of learning multiple orientation trajectories and adapting learned orientation skills to new situations (e.g., via-point and end-point), where both orientation and angular velocity are addressed. Specifically, we introduce a kernelized treatment to alleviate explicit basis functions when learning orientations. Several examples including comparison with the state-of-the-art dynamic movement primitives are provided to verify the effectiveness of our method.


Title: ATLAS FaST: Fast and Simple Scheduled TDOA for Reliable Ultra-Wideband Localization
Abstract: The ever increasing need for precise location estimation in robotics is challenging a significant amount of research. Hence, new applications such as wireless localization based aerial robot control or high precision personal safety tracking are developed. However, most of the current developments and research solely focus on the accuracy of the required localization systems. Multi-user scalability, energy efficiency and real-time capabilities are often neglected. This work aims to overcome the technology barrier by providing scalable, high accuracy, real-time localization through energy-efficient, scheduled time-difference of arrival channel access. We could show that simultaneous processing and provisioning of more than a thousand localization results per second with high reliability is possible using the proposed approach. To enable wide-spread adoption, we provide an open source implementation of our system for the robot operating system (ROS). Furthermore, we provide open source access to the raw data created during our evaluation.


Title: Non-parametric Error Modeling for Ultra-wideband Localization Networks
Abstract: We propose an ultra-wideband-based (UWB) localization system that achieves high accuracy through nonparametric estimation of measurement probability densities and explicit modeling of antenna delays. This problem is difficult because non-line-of-sight conditions give rise to multimodal errors, which make linear estimation methods ineffective. The primary contribution in this paper is an approach for both characterizing these errors in situ and an optimization framework that recovers both positions and antenna delays. We evaluate our system with a network of 8 nodes based on the DecaWave DWM1000 and achieve accuracies from 3 cm RMSE in line-of-sight conditions to 30 cm RMSE in non-line-of-sight conditions. Collecting measurements and localizing the network in this manner requires less than a minute, after which the realized network may be used for dynamic real-time tracking.


Title: Self-Supervised Incremental Learning for Sound Source Localization in Complex Indoor Environment
Abstract: This paper presents an incremental learning framework for mobile robots localizing the human sound source using a microphone array in a complex indoor environment consisting of multiple rooms. In contrast to conventional approaches that leverage direction-of-arrival (DOA) estimation, the framework allows a robot to accumulate training data and improve the performance of the prediction model over time using an incremental learning scheme. Specifically, we use implicit acoustic features obtained from an auto-encoder together with the geometry features from the map for training. A self-supervision process is developed such that the model ranks the priority of rooms to explore and assigns the ground truth label to the collected data, updating the learned model on-the-fly. The framework does not require pre-collected data and can be directly applied to real-world scenarios without any human supervisions or interventions. In experiments, we demonstrate that the prediction accuracy reaches 67% using about 20 training samples and eventually achieves 90% accuracy within 120 samples, surpassing prior classification-based methods with explicit GCC-PHAT features.


Title: Spatio-temporal representation for long-term anticipation of human presence in service robotics
Abstract: We propose an efficient spatio-temporal model for mobile autonomous robots operating in human populated environments. Our method aims to model periodic temporal patterns of people presence, which are based on peoples' routines and habits. The core idea is to project the time onto a set of wrapped dimensions that represent the periodicities of people presence. Extending a 2D spatial model with this multidimensional representation of time results in a memory efficient spatio-temporal model. This model is capable of long-term predictions of human presence, allowing mobile robots to schedule their services better and to plan their paths. The experimental evaluation, performed over datasets gathered by a robot over a period of several weeks, indicates that the proposed method achieves more accurate predictions than the previous state of the art used in robotics.


Title: User Centric Device Registration for Streamlined Workflows in Surgical Navigation Systems
Abstract: Alongside sweeping transformations in healthcare, a timeless drive to make surgical interventions less invasive and more effective has led to the integration of disparate technologies into surgical navigation systems. Fusions of device tracking and medical imaging modalities have been comprehensively investigated for opportunities to improve care. Such composite systems provide more and better information, enabling clinicians to operate less invasively and more effectively. Because of these merits, the preoperative ritual of harmonizing multiple information sources has been tacitly adopted. In this paper, we challenge the paradigm of preoperative registration. Proposed herein is a technique in which a clinician registers an interventional device to a navigation system simply by gesturing the device through a strategically designed fixture. In the background, the system continuously monitors the device path for this registration gesture. We demonstrate generality by applying the method to both robotic and electromagnetically tracked devices, and exhibit versatility by repeating the registration at multiple device base locations. Experiments indicate sub-millimeter accuracy versus conventional approaches on the same setup. Consequently, clinicians can register devices on the fly, increasing flexibility in setup and redefining workflow possibilities in surgery.


Title: High-Speed Ring Insertion by Dynamic Observable Contact Hand
Abstract: This study proposes a dynamic observable contact (DOC) hand as a new multifingered hand to ensure high- speed insertion in an assembly process with a small clearance between objects. To achieve insertion with a small clearance at high speed, a robot hand must realize both impact reduction and position-error compensation when the two objects contact each other. The DOC hand, with its features of 6-degrees-of- freedom dynamic passivity and object-pose observability, can realize both impact reduction and position-error compensation. To evaluate the effectiveness of the DOC hand, we construct a robot system using the DOC hand. We evaluate the performance of the system in the task of ring insertion with a small clearance (0-36um). The results indicate that the robot system performs with a higher speed than a human. In fact, the average cycle time is 2.42 s for the robot, whereas it is 2.58 s for a human. The DOC hand has opened up the possibility for achieving high-speed precision assembly using robots.


Title: Learning To Grasp Under Uncertainty Using POMDPs
Abstract: Robust object grasping under uncertainty is an essential capability of service robots. Many existing approaches rely on far-field sensors, such as cameras, to compute a grasp pose and perform open-loop grasp after placing gripper under the pose. This often fails as a result of sensing or environment uncertainty. This paper presents a principled, general and efficient approach to adaptive grasping, using both tactile and visual sensing as feedback. We first model adaptive grasping as a partially observable Markov decision process (POMDP), which handles uncertainty naturally. We solve the POMDP for sampled objects from a set, in order to generate data for learning. Finally, we train a grasp policy, represented as a deep recurrent neural network (RNN), in simulation through imitation learning. By combining model-based POMDP planning and imitation learning, the proposed approach achieves robustness under uncertainty, generalization over many objects, and fast execution. In particular, we show that modeling only a small sample of objects enables us to learn a robust strategy to grasp previously unseen objects of varying shapes and recover from failure over multiple steps. Experiments on the G3DB object dataset in simulation and a smaller object set with a real robot indicate promising results.


Title: A GPU Based Parallel Genetic Algorithm for the Orientation Optimization Problem in 3D Printing*
Abstract: The choice of model orientation is a very important issue in Additive Manufacturing (AM). In this paper, the model orientation problem is formulated as a multi-objective optimization problem, aiming at minimizing the building time, the surface quality, and the supporting area. Then we convert the problem into a single-objective optimization in the linear-weighted way. After that, the Genetic Algorithm (GA) is used to solve the optimization problem and the process of GA is parallelized and implemented on GPU. Experimental results show that when dealing with complex models in AM, compared with CPU only implementation, the GPU based GA can speed up the process by about 50 times, which helps to significantly reduce the optimization time and ensure the quality of solutions. The GPU based parallel methods we proposed can help to reduce the execution time and improve the efficiency greatly, making the processes more efficient.


Title: A Robotic Cell for Multi-Resolution Additive Manufacturing
Abstract: Extrusion-based additive manufacturing (AM), also known as fused deposition modeling (FDM) extrudes filaments through a heated nozzle and builds a part layer-by-layer. Using a smaller diameter nozzle can achieve better surface finish. However, there is a trade-off between surface finish and build times as using a small diameter nozzle leads to smaller layer thickness and long build times. Traditional FDM printers create a part with planar layers, and this restricts control over fiber orientations. This paper presents a robotic cell for multi-resolution AM. The cell consists of two 6 degrees of freedom (DOF) robot manipulators capable of printing non-planar and/or planar layers. We describe algorithms for decomposing parts into multi-resolution layers and generating collision-free trajectories for the robot manipulators. We validate our approach by printing five parts with multi-resolution.


Title: Multimodal Bin Picking System with Compliant Tactile Sensor Arrays for Flexible Part Handling*
Abstract: This paper presents a robot control architecture comprised of tactile and vision sensors incorporated into an off-the-shelf bin picking system. The proposed architecture facilitates flexible and reliable handling of objects and materials by employing a tactile grasp validation system and in-hand object monitoring. Two industrial grippers, specifically a magnetic gripper and a flexible vacuum gripper, are equipped with a compliant custom tactile sensor array. The algorithms used are for each specific gripper and respective sensor, however are transferrable to other grippers as well. The tactile sensing augments vision-based picking approaches, thus supporting in-hand object recognition [1] that is particularly useful for hard-to-recognize objects such as objects with transparent or shiny surfaces. Algorithms for tactile-based object pose estimation in the gripper and for grasp monitoring, including grasp validation, complete the approach.


Title: A Novel Multi-layer Framework for Tiny Obstacle Discovery
Abstract: For tiny obstacle discovery in a monocular image, edge is a fundamental visual element. Nevertheless, because of various reasons, e.g., noise and similar color distribution with background, it is still difficult to detect the edges of tiny (b) obstacles at long distance. In this paper, we propose an obstacle-aware discovery method to recover the missing contours of these obstacles, which helps to obtain obstacle proposals as much as possible. First, by using visual cues in monocular images, several multi-layer regions are elaborately inferred to reveal the distances from the camera. Second, several novel obstacle-aware occlusion edge maps are constructed to well capture the contours of tiny obstacles, which combines cues from each layer. Third, to ensure the existence of the tiny obstacle proposals, the maps from all layers are used for proposals extraction. Finally, based on these proposals containing tiny obstacles, a novel obstacle-aware regressor is proposed to generate an obstacle occupied probability map with high confidence. The convincing experimental results with comparisons on the Lost and Found dataset demonstrate the effectiveness of our approach, achieving around 9.5% improvement on the accuracy than FPHT and PHT, it even gets comparable performance to MergeNet. Moreover, our method outperforms the state-of-the-art algorithms and significantly improves the discovery ability for tiny obstacles at long distance.


Title: DSNet: Joint Learning for Scene Segmentation and Disparity Estimation
Abstract: Recently, research works have attempted the joint prediction of scene semantics and optical flow estimation, which demonstrate the mutual improvement between both tasks. Besides, the depth information is also indispensable for the scene understanding, and disparity estimation is necessary for outputting dense depth maps. Such task shares a great similarity with the optical flow estimation since they can all be cast into a problem of capturing the difference at a location of two image frames. However, as far as we know, currently there are few networks for the joint learning of semantic and disparity. Moreover, since deep semantic information and disparity feature maps can learn from each other, we find it unnecessary with two independent encoding modules to separately extract semantic and disparity features. Therefore, we propose a unified multi-tasking architecture DSNet, for the simultaneous estimation of semantic and disparity information. In our model, semantic features, extracted by the encoding module ResNet from the left and right images, are used to obtain the deep disparity features via a novel matching module which performs pixel-to-pixel matching. In addition, we also use the disparity map to perform warp operation on deep features of the right image to deal with the problem of lacking of semantic labels. The effectiveness of our method is demonstrated by extensive experiments.


Title: Set-based Inverse Kinematics Control of an Anthropomorphic Dual Arm Aerial Manipulator
Abstract: The paper presents a multiple task-priority inverse kinematics algorithm for a dual-arm aerial manipulator. Both tasks defined as equality constraints and inequality constraints are handled by means of a singularity robust method based on the Null-Space based Behavioral control. The proposed schema is constituted by the inverse kinematics control, that receives the desired behavior of the system and outputs the reference values for the motion variables, i.e. the UAV pose and the arm joints position, and a motion control, that computes the vehicle thrusts and the joint torques. The method has been experimentally validated on a system composed by an underactuated aerial hexarotor vehicle equipped with two lightweight 4-DOF manipulators, involved in operations requiring the coordination of the two arms and the vehicle.


Title: Detection and Tracking of Small Objects in Sparse 3D Laser Range Data
Abstract: Detection and tracking of dynamic objects is a key feature for autonomous behavior in a continuously changing environment. With the increasing popularity and capability of micro aerial vehicles (MAVs) efficient algorithms have to be utilized to enable multi object tracking on limited hardware and data provided by lightweight sensors. We present a novel segmentation approach based on a combination of median filters and an efficient pipeline for detection and tracking of small objects within sparse point clouds generated by a Velodyne VLP-16 sensor. We achieve real-time performance on a single core of our MAV hardware by exploiting the inherent structure of the data. Our approach is evaluated on simulated and real scans of in- and outdoor environments, obtaining results comparable to the state of the art. Additionally, we provide an application for filtering the dynamic and mapping the static part of the data, generating further insights into the performance of the pipeline on unlabeled data.


Title: Unsupervised Learning of Assistive Camera Views by an Aerial Co-robot in Augmented Reality Multitasking Environments
Abstract: This paper presents a novel method by which an assistive aerial robot can learn the relevant camera views within a task domain through tracking the head motions of a human collaborator. The human's visual field is modeled as an anisotropic spherical sensor, which decays in acuity towards the periphery, and is integrated in time throughout the domain. This data is resampled and fed into an expectation maximization solver in order to estimate the environment's visual interest as a mixture of Gaussians. A dynamic coverage control law directs the robot to capture camera views of the peaks of these Gaussians which is broadcast to an augmented reality display worn by the human operator. An experimental study is presented that assesses the influence of the assistive robot on reflex time, head motion, and task completion time.


Title: Robot Co-design: Beyond the Monotone Case
Abstract: Recent advances in 3D printing and manufacturing of miniaturized robotic hardware and computing are paving the way to build inexpensive and disposable robots. This will have a large impact on several applications including scientific discovery (e.g., hurricane monitoring), search-and-rescue (e.g., operation in confined spaces), and entertainment (e.g., nano drones). The need for inexpensive and task-specific robots clashes with the current practice, where human experts are in charge of designing hardware and software aspects of the robotic platform. This makes the robot design process expensive and time consuming, and ultimately unsuitable for small-volumes low-cost applications. This paper considers the computational robot co-design problem, which aims to create an automatic algorithm that selects the best robotic modules (sensing, actuation, computing) in order to maximize the performance on a task, while satisfying given specifications (e.g., maximum cost of the resulting design). We propose a binary optimization formulation of the co-design problem and show that such formulation generalizes previous work based on strong modeling assumptions. We show that the proposed formulation can solve relatively large co-design problems in seconds and with minimal human intervention. We demonstrate the proposed approach in two applications: the co-design of an autonomous drone racing platform and the co-design of a multi-robot system.


Title: Multi-Vehicle Close Enough Orienteering Problem with Bézier Curves for Multi-Rotor Aerial Vehicles
Abstract: This paper introduces the Close Enough Orienteering Problem (CEOP) for planning missions with multi-rotor aerial vehicles considering their maximal velocity and acceleration limits. The addressed problem stands to select the most rewarding target locations and sequence to visit them in the given limited travel budget. The reward is collected within a non-zero range from a particular target location that allows saving the travel cost, and thus collect more rewards. Hence, we are searching for the fastest trajectories to collect the most valuable rewards such that the motion constraints are not violated, and the travel budget is satisfied. We leverage on existing trajectory parametrization based on Bézier curves recently deployed in surveillance planning using unsupervised learning, and we propose to employ the learning in a solution of the introduced multi-vehicle CEOP. Feasibility of the proposed approach is supported by empirical evaluation and experimental deployment using multi-rotor vehicles.


Title: A constrained control-planning strategy for redundant manipulators
Abstract: This paper presents an interconnected control-planning strategy for redundant manipulators, subject to system and environmental constraints. The method incorporates low-level control characteristics and high-level planning components into a robust strategy for manipulators acting in complex environments, subject to joint limits. This strategy is formulated using an adaptive control rule, a computational efficient estimation of the robot's mathematical model and the nullspace of the constraints. A path is generated that takes into account the capabilities of the platform. The proposed method is computationally efficient, enabling its implementation on a real multi-body robotic system. Through experimental results with a 7 degree-of-freedom (DOF) manipulator, we demonstrate the performance of the method in real-world scenarios.


Title: Expectation-Maximization for Adaptive Mixture Models in Graph Optimization
Abstract: Non-Gaussian and multimodal distributions are an important part of many recent robust sensor fusion algorithms. In difference to robust cost functions, they are probabilistically founded and have good convergence properties. Since their robustness depends on a close approximation of the real error distribution, their parametrization is crucial. We propose a novel approach that allows to adapt a multi-modal Gaussian mixture model to the error distribution of a sensor fusion problem. By combining expectation-maximization and non-linear least squares optimization, we are able to provide a computationally efficient solution with well-behaved convergence properties. We demonstrate the performance of these algorithms on several real-world GNSS and indoor localization datasets. The proposed adaptive mixture algorithm outperforms state-of-the-art approaches with static parametrization. Source code and datasets are available under https://mytuc.org/libRSF.


Title: Multi-Camera Visual-Inertial Navigation with Online Intrinsic and Extrinsic Calibration
Abstract: This paper presents a general multi-camera visual-inertial navigation system (mc-VINS) with online instrinsic and extrinsic calibration, which is able to utilize all the information from an arbitrary number of asynchronous cameras. In particular, within the standard multi-state constraint Kalman Filter (MSCKF) framework, we only clone the IMU poses related to a single “base camera” (rather than all cameras) in the state vector, while the IMU poses corresponding to all other camera images are represented via an interpolation of the poses bounding the measuring time. By doing so, we can fuse all observations from all cameras with inertial measurements while allowing for efficient, tightly-coupled state estimation through parallelization and asynchrony. Moreover, we perform online sensor calibration of each camera's intrinsics as well as the spatial (transformation) and temporal (time offset) extrinsic parameters between all involved sensors (cameras and IMU), thus enabling high-fidelity localization. We validate the proposed mc-VINS algorithm in various real-world experiments with different sensor configurations, showing the ability to offer real-time high-precision localization and calibration results.


Title: Joint Inference of Kinematic and Force Trajectories with Visuo-Tactile Sensing
Abstract: To perform complex tasks, robots must be able to interact with and manipulate their surroundings. One of the key challenges in accomplishing this is robust state estimation during physical interactions, where the state involves not only the robot and the object being manipulated, but also the state of the contact itself. In this work, within the context of planar pushing, we extend previous inference-based approaches to state estimation in several ways. We estimate the robot, object, and the contact state on multiple manipulation platforms configured with a vision-based articulated model tracker, and either a biomimetic tactile sensor or a force-torque sensor. We show how to fuse raw measurements from the tracker and tactile sensors to jointly estimate the trajectory of the kinematic states and the forces in the system via probabilistic inference on factor graphs, in both batch and incremental settings. We perform several benchmarks with our framework and show how performance is affected by incorporating various geometric and physics based constraints, occluding vision sensors, or injecting noise in tactile sensors. We also compare with prior work on multiple datasets and demonstrate that our approach can effectively optimize over multi-modal sensor data and reduce uncertainty to find better state estimates.


Title: Semantic Predictive Control for Explainable and Efficient Policy Learning
Abstract: Visual anticipation of ego and object motion over a short time horizons is a key feature of human-level performance in complex environments. We propose a driving policy learning framework that predicts feature representations of future visual inputs; our predictive model infers not only future events but also semantics, which provide a visual explanation of policy decisions. Our Semantic Predictive Control (SPC) framework predicts future semantic segmentation and events by aggregating multi-scale feature maps. A guidance model assists action selection and enables efficient sampling-based optimization. Experiments on multiple simulation environments show that networks which implement SPC can outperform existing model-based reinforcement learning algorithms in terms of data efficiency and total rewards while providing clear explanations for the policy's behavior.


Title: Coordinating multi-robot systems through environment partitioning for adaptive informative sampling
Abstract: As robotic platforms have become more capable and autonomous, they have increasingly been utilized in time sensitive applications such as search and rescue. To that end, we have developed a system for teams of robots to efficiently explore an environment while taking sensor measurements. The system utilizes an information seeking algorithm that generates high priority points of interest based on the highest expected information gained per distance travelled. In order to coordinate multiple robots, the system partitions the area into different regions according to the effort needed to explore each region. Robots are assigned different regions to measure in order to minimize repetition of work and reduce interference between each robot.We present an information rate adaptive sampling approach for tasking robots within an environment to gather sensor measurements. We evaluated our approach within a simulation environment with one to four robots. Multiple robots are coordinated through our region segmentation approach. The data shows efficiency gains through the use of adaptive information gain rate tasking above a naïve closest point approach. We also see positive results from using the region segmentation technique. We further the experimentation by testing the algorithm on real world robots and verify the results in real world experimentation.


Title: A Fleet of Miniature Cars for Experiments in Cooperative Driving
Abstract: We introduce a unique experimental testbed that consists of a fleet of 16 miniature Ackermann-steering vehicles. We are motivated by a lack of available low-cost platforms to support research and education in multi-car navigation and trajectory planning. This article elaborates the design of our miniature robotic car, the Cambridge Minicar, as well as the fleet's control architecture. Our experimental testbed allows us to implement state-of-the-art driver models as well as autonomous control strategies, and test their validity in a real, physical multi-lane setup. Through experiments on our miniature highway, we are able to tangibly demonstrate the benefits of cooperative driving on multi-lane road topographies. Our setup paves the way for indoor large-fleet experimental research.


Title: Multi-robot Informative Path Planning with Continuous Connectivity Constraints
Abstract: We consider the problem of information collection from a polygonal environment using a multi-robot system, subject to continuous connectivity constraints. In particular, the robots, having a common radius of communication range, must remain connected throughout the exploration maximizing the information collection. The information gained through the exploration of the terrain is wirelessly transmitted to a base station. The base station performs the centralized planning of informative paths for the robots based on the information collected by them and thereafter, the robots follow these paths. This paper formulates the problem of multi-robot informative path planning under continuous connectivity constraints as an integer program leveraging the ideas of bipartite graph matching and minimal node separators. Theoretical analysis of the proposed solution proves that the informative paths will be collision-free and will be free of both livelock and deadlock. Experimental results demonstrate the low computational requirements of our algorithm for planning the informative paths, taking only about 0.75 sec. for planning a joint set of collision-free informative locations for 10 robots.


Title: Depth Completion with Deep Geometry and Context Guidance
Abstract: In this paper, we present an end-to-end convolutional neural network (CNN) for depth completion. Our network consists of a geometry network and a context network. The geometry network, a single encoder-decoder network, learns to optimize a multi-task loss to generate an initial propagated depth map and a surface normal. The complementary outputs allow it to correctly propagate initial sparse depth points in slanted surfaces. The context network extracts a local and a global feature of an image to compute a bilateral weight, which enables it to preserve edges and fine details in the depth maps. At the end, a final output is produced by multiplying the initially propagated depth map with the bilateral weight. In order to validate the effectiveness and the robustness of our network, we performed extensive ablation studies and compared the results against state-of-the-art CNN-based depth completions, where we showed promising results on various scenes.


Title: Self-Supervised Sparse-to-Dense: Self-Supervised Depth Completion from LiDAR and Monocular Camera
Abstract: Depth completion, the technique of estimating a dense depth image from sparse depth measurements, has a variety of applications in robotics and autonomous driving. However, depth completion faces 3 main challenges: the irregularly spaced pattern in the sparse depth input, the difficulty in handling multiple sensor modalities (when color images are available), as well as the lack of dense, pixel-level ground truth depth labels for training. In this work, we address all these challenges. Specifically, we develop a deep regression model to learn a direct mapping from sparse depth (and color images) input to dense depth prediction. We also propose a self-supervised training framework that requires only sequences of color and sparse depth images, without the need for dense depth labels. Our experiments demonstrate that the self-supervised framework outperforms a number of existing solutions trained with semi-dense annotations. Furthermore, when trained with semi-dense annotations, our network attains state-of-the-art accuracy and is the winning approach on the KITTI depth completion benchmark at the time of submission.


Title: In-hand Object Scanning via RGB-D Video Segmentation
Abstract: This paper proposes a technique for 3D object scanning via in-hand manipulation, in which an object reoriented in front of a video camera with multiple grasps and regrasps. In-hand object tracking is a significant challenge under fast movement, rapid appearance changes, and occlusions. This paper proposes a novel video-segmentation-based object tracking algorithm that tracks arbitrary in-hand objects more effectively than existing techniques. It also describes a novel RGB-D in-hand object manipulation dataset consisting of several common household objects. Experiments show that the new method achieves 6% increase in accuracy compared to top performing video tracking algorithms and results in noticeably higher quality reconstructed models. Moreover, testing with a novice user on a set of 200 objects demonstrates relatively rapid construction of complete 3D object models.


Title: Multi-Modal Generative Models for Learning Epistemic Active Sensing
Abstract: We present a novel approach of multi-modal deep generative models and apply this to coordinated heterogeneous multi-agent active sensing. A major approach to achieve this objective is to train a multi-modal variational Auto Encoder (M2VAE) that integrates the information of different sensor modalities into a joint latent representation. Furthermore, we derive an objective from the M2VAE that enables the maximization of the evidence lower bound via selection of sensor modalities. Using this approach as a direct reward signal to a multi-modal and multi-agent deep reinforcement learning setup leads intuitively to an epistemic active sensing behavior that coordinately resolves the ambiguity of observations.


Title: Decentralized Formation Coordination of Multiple Quadcopters under Communication Constraints
Abstract: This paper addresses the problem of decentralized, outdoor formation coordination with multiple quadcopters. The problem is formulated as a receding horizon, mixed-integer non-linear program (RH-MINLP). Each quadcopter solves this RH-MINLP to generate its time-optimal speed profile along a minimum snap spline path while coordinating its position in a desired formation with other quadcopters. Constraints on quadcopter kinematics, dynamics, collision avoidance, wireless communication connectivity, and geometric formations are modeled. Communication connectivity is modeled as a constraint on maximum separation distance based on a minimum viable received signal strength in the presence of path loss attenuation. The resulting RH-MINLP is non-convex, and is solved using an outer-approximation branch and bound solver with a warm-starting scheme. The framework is validated via Hardware-in-the-Loop (HITL) and outdoor flight test with up to 6 quadcopters. Results demonstrate the effect of number of quadcopters and formation type on total transit time. Average radio packet loss statistics during transit indicate robust network performance for a round robin communication scheduling scheme.


Title: Online Plan Repair in Multi-robot Coordination with Disturbances
Abstract: This paper addresses the problem of multi-robot coordination in scenarios where the robots may experience unexpected delays in their movements. Prior work by Čáp, Gregoire, and Frazzołi introduced a control law, called RMTRACK, which enables robots in such scenarios to execute preplanned paths in spite of disturbances in the execution speed of each robot, while guaranteeing that each robot can reach its goal without collisions and without deadlocks. We extend that approach to handle scenarios in which the disturbance probabilities are unknown at the start and non-uniform across the environment. The key idea is to `repair' a plan on-the-fly, by swapping the order in which a pair of robots passes through a mutual collision region (i.e. a coordination space obstacle), when making such a change can be estimated to improve the overall performance of the system. We introduce a technique based on Gaussian Processes to estimate future disturbances, and propose two algorithms for testing, at appropriate times, whether a swap of a given obstacle would be beneficial. Tests in simulation demonstrate that our algorithm achieves significantly smaller average travel time than RMTRACK at only a modest computational expense.


Title: Methodology of Designing Multi-agent Robot Control Systems Utilising Hierarchical Petri Nets
Abstract: A robot system is designed as a set of embodied agents. An embodied agent is decomposed into cooperating subsystems. In our previous work activities of subsystems were defined by hierarchical finite state machines. With their states activities were associated. In that approach communication between subsystems was treated as an implementation issue. This paper represents activities of a robot system using hierarchical Petri nets with conditions. Such net is created by specifying consecutive layers: multi-agent robot system layer, agent layer, subsystem layer, behaviour layer and communication layer. This decomposition not only organizes in a systematic manner the development of a robot system, but also introduces a comprehensive description of concurrently acting subsystems. Based on those theoretical considerations, a tool was created for producing hierarchical Petri nets defining the model of a robotic system and enabling automatic generation of the robot controller code, resulting in a significant acceleration of the implementation phase. The capabilities of the tool are presented by the development of a robot controller performing a rudimentary task.


Title: Interaction-Aware Multi-Agent Reinforcement Learning for Mobile Agents with Individual Goals
Abstract: In a multi-agent setting, the optimal policy of a single agent is largely dependent on the behavior of other agents. We investigate the problem of multi-agent reinforcement learning, focusing on decentralized learning in non-stationary domains for mobile robot navigation. We identify a cause for the difficulty in training non-stationary policies: mutual adaptation to sub-optimal behaviors, and we use this to motivate a curriculum-based strategy for learning interactive policies. The curriculum has two stages. First, the agent leverages policy gradient algorithms to learn a policy that is capable of achieving multiple goals. Second, the agent learns a modifier policy to learn how to interact with other agents in a multi-agent setting. We evaluated our approach on both an autonomous driving lane-change domain and a robot navigation domain.


Title: Coverage Control for Multiple Event Types with Heterogeneous Robots
Abstract: This paper focuses on the problem of deploying a set of autonomous robots to efficiently monitor multiple types of events in an environment. There is a density function over the environment for each event type representing the weighted likelihood of the event at each location. The robots are heterogeneous in that each robot is equipped with a set of sensors and it is capable of sensing a subset of event types. The objective is to deploy the robots in the environment to minimize a linear combination of the total sensing quality of the events. We propose a new formulation for the problem which is a natural extension of the homogeneous problem. We propose distributed algorithms that drive the robots to locally optimal positions in both continuous environments that are obstacle-free, and in discrete environments that may contain obstacles. In both cases we prove convergence to locally optimal positions. We provide extension to the case where the density functions are unknown prior to the deployment in continuous environments. Finally, we present benchmarking results and physical experiments to characterize the solution quality.


Title: A Competitive Algorithm for Online Multi-Robot Exploration of a Translating Plume
Abstract: In this paper, we study the problem of exploring a translating plume with a team of aerial robots. The shape and the size of the plume are unknown to the robots. The objective is to find a tour for each robot such that they collectively explore the plume. Specifically, the tours must be such that each point in the plume must be visible from the field-of-view of some robot along its tour. We propose a recursive Depth-First Search (DFS)-based algorithm that yields a constant competitive ratio for the exploration problem. The competitive ratio is 2(Sr + Sp)(R+⌊log R⌋)/(Sr + Sp)(R+⌊log R⌋) where R is the number of robots, and Sr and Sp are the robot speed and the plume speed, respectively. We also consider a more realistic scenario where the plume shape is not restricted to grid cells but an arbitrary shape. We show our algorithm has 2(Sr + Sp)(18 R+⌊log R⌋)/(Sr + Sp)(1+⌊log R⌋) competitive ratio under the fat condition. We empirically verify our algorithm using simulations.


Title: Easily Deployable Underwater Acoustic Navigation System for Multi-Vehicle Environmental Sampling Applications
Abstract: Water as a medium poses a number of challenges for robots, limiting the progress of research in underwater robotics vis-á-vis ground or aerial robotics. The primary challenges are satellite based positioning and radio communication being unusable due to high attenuation of electromagnetic waves in water. We have developed miniature, agile, easy to carry and deploy Autonomous Underwater Vehicles (AUVs) equipped with a suite of sensors for underwater environmental sensing. We previously demonstrated adaptive sampling and feature tracking, and gathered data from a lake for limnological research, with the AUV performing inertial navigation. In this paper, we demonstrate a new underwater acoustic positioning system, which allows on-board estimation of AUV position. Our system uses absolute time information from GNSS for initial clock synchronization and uses one-way-travel-time for range measurements, which makes it scalable in the number of robots. It is easily deployable and does not rely on any installed infrastructure in the environment. We describe various hardware and software components of our system, and present results from experiments in Lake Geneva.


Title: Underwater Terrain Reconstruction from Forward-Looking Sonar Imagery
Abstract: In this paper, we propose a novel approach for underwater simultaneous localization and mapping using a multibeam imaging sonar for 3D terrain mapping tasks. The high levels of noise and the absence of elevation angle information in sonar images present major challenges for data association and accurate 3D mapping. Instead of repeatedly projecting extracted features into Euclidean space, we apply optical flow within bearing-range images for tracking extracted features. To deal with degenerate cases, such as when tracking is interrupted by noise, we model the subsea terrain as a Gaussian Process random field on a Chow-Liu tree. Terrain factors are incorporated into the factor graph, aimed at smoothing the terrain elevation estimate. We demonstrate the performance of our proposed algorithm in a simulated environment, which shows that terrain factors effectively reduce estimation error. We also show ROV experiments performed in a variable-elevation tank environment, where we are able to construct a descriptive and smooth height estimate of the tank bottom.


Title: Learning Object Localization and 6D Pose Estimation from Simulation and Weakly Labeled Real Images
Abstract: Accurate pose estimation is often a requirement for robust robotic grasping and manipulation of objects placed in cluttered, tight environments, such as a shelf with multiple objects. When deep learning approaches are employed to perform this task, they typically require a large amount of training data. However, obtaining precise 6 degrees of freedom for ground-truth can be prohibitively expensive. This work therefore proposes an architecture and a training process to solve this issue. More precisely, we present a weak object detector that enables localizing objects and estimating their 6D poses in cluttered and occluded scenes. To minimize the human labor required for annotations, the proposed detector is trained with a combination of synthetic and a few weakly annotated real images (as little as 10 images per object), for which a human provides only a list of objects present in each image (no time-consuming annotations, such as bounding boxes, segmentation masks and object poses). To close the gap between real and synthetic images, we use multiple domain classifiers trained adversarially. During the inference phase, the resulting class-specific heatmaps of the weak detector are used to guide the search of 6D poses of objects. Our proposed approach is evaluated on several publicly available datasets for pose estimation. We also evaluated our model on classification and localization in unsupervised and semi-supervised settings. The results clearly indicate that this approach could provide an efficient way toward fully automating the training process of computer vision models used in robotics.


Title: A Linear-Complexity EKF for Visual-Inertial Navigation with Loop Closures
Abstract: Enabling real-time visual-inertial navigation in unknown environments while achieving bounded-error performance holds great potentials in robotic applications. To this end, in this paper, we propose a novel linear-complexity EKF for visual-inertial localization, which can efficiently utilize loop closure constraints, thus allowing for long-term persistent navigation. The key idea is to adapt the Schmidt-Kalman formulation within the multi-state constraint Kalman filter (MSCKF) framework, in which we selectively include keyframes as nuisance parameters in the state vector for loop closures but do not update their estimates and covariance in order to save computations while still tracking their cross-correlations with the current navigation states. As a result, the proposed Schmidt-MSCKF has only O(n) computational complexity while still incorporating loop closures into the system. The proposed approach is validated extensively on large-scale real-world experiments, showing significant performance improvements when compared to the standard MSCKF, while only incurring marginal computational overhead.


Title: Sensor-Failure-Resilient Multi-IMU Visual-Inertial Navigation
Abstract: In this paper, we present a real-time multi-IMU visual-inertial navigation system (mi-VINS) that utilizes the information from multiple inertial measurement units (IMUs) and thus is resilient to IMU sensor failures. In particular, in the proposed mi-VINS formulation, one of the IMUs serves as the “base” of the system, while the rest act as auxiliary sensors aiding in state estimation. A key advantage of this architecture is the ability to seamlessly “promote” an auxiliary IMU as a new base, for example, upon detection of the base IMU failure, thus being resilient to the single point of sensor failure as seen in conventional VINS. Moreover, in order to properly fuse the information of multiple IMUs, both the spatial (relative pose) and temporal (time offset) calibration parameters between each sensor and the base IMU are estimated online. The proposed miVINS with online spatial and temporal calibration is validated in both simulations and real-world experiments, and is shown to be able to provide accurate localization and calibration even in scenarios with IMU sensor failures.


Title: Leveraging Contact Forces for Learning to Grasp
Abstract: Grasping objects under uncertainty remains an open problem in robotics research. This uncertainty is often due to noisy or partial observations of the object pose or shape. To enable a robot to react appropriately to unforeseen effects, it is crucial that it continuously takes sensor feedback into account. While visual feedback is important for inferring a grasp pose and reaching for an object, contact feedback offers valuable information during manipulation and grasp acquisition. In this paper, we use model-free deep reinforcement learning to synthesize control policies that exploit contact sensing to generate robust grasping under uncertainty. We demonstrate our approach on a multi-fingered hand that exhibits more complex finger coordination than the commonly used two-fingered grippers. We conduct extensive experiments in order to assess the performance of the learned policies, with and without contact sensing. While it is possible to learn grasping policies without contact sensing, our results suggest that contact feedback allows for a significant improvement of grasping robustness under object pose uncertainty and for objects with a complex shape.


Title: Learning Deep Visuomotor Policies for Dexterous Hand Manipulation
Abstract: Multi-fingered dexterous hands are versatile and capable of acquiring a diverse set of skills such as grasping, in-hand manipulation, and tool use. To fully utilize their versatility in real-world scenarios, we require algorithms and policies that can control them using on-board sensing capabilities, without relying on external tracking or motion capture systems. Cameras and tactile sensors are the most widely used on-board sensors that do not require instrumentation of the world. In this work, we demonstrate an imitation learning based approach to train deep visuomotor policies for a variety of manipulation tasks with a simulated five fingered dexterous hand. These policies directly control the hand using high dimensional visual observations of the world and propreoceptive observations from the robot, and can be trained efficiently with a few hundred expert demonstration trajectories. We also find that using touch sensing information enables faster learning and better asymptotic performance for tasks with high degree of occlusions. Video demonstration of our results are available at: https://sites.google.com/view/hand-vil/.


Title: Learning to Identify Object Instances by Touch: Tactile Recognition via Multimodal Matching
Abstract: Much of the literature on robotic perception focuses on the visual modality. Vision provides a global observation of a scene, making it broadly useful. However, in the domain of robotic manipulation, vision alone can sometimes prove inadequate: in the presence of occlusions or poor lighting, visual object identification might be difficult. The sense of touch can provide robots with an alternative mechanism for recognizing objects. In this paper, we study the problem of touch-based instance recognition. We propose a novel framing of the problem as multi-modal recognition: the goal of our system is to recognize, given a visual and tactile observation, whether or not these observations correspond to the same object. To our knowledge, our work is the first to address this type of multi-modal instance recognition problem on such a large-scale with our analysis spanning 98 different objects. We employ a robot equipped with two GelSight touch sensors, one on each finger, and a self-supervised, autonomous data collection procedure to collect a dataset of tactile observations and images. Our experimental results show that it is possible to accurately recognize object instances by touch alone, including instances of novel objects that were never seen during training. Our learned model outperforms other methods on this complex task, including that of human volunteers.


Title: Dexterous Manipulation with Deep Reinforcement Learning: Efficient, General, and Low-Cost
Abstract: Dexterous multi-fingered robotic hands can perform a wide range of manipulation skills, making them an appealing component for general-purpose robotic manipulators. However, such hands pose a major challenge for autonomous control, due to the high dimensionality of their configuration space and complex intermittent contact interactions. In this work, we propose deep reinforcement learning (deep RL) as a scalable solution for learning complex, contact rich behaviors with multi-fingered hands. Deep RL provides an end-to-end approach to directly map sensor readings to actions, without the need for task specific models or policy classes. We show that contact-rich manipulation behavior with multi-fingered hands can be learned by directly training with model-free deep RL algorithms in the real world, with minimal additional assumption and without the aid of simulation. We learn to perform a variety of tasks on two different low-cost hardware platforms entirely from scratch, and further study how the learning can be accelerated by using a small number of human demonstrations. Our experiments demonstrate that complex multi-fingered manipulation skills can be learned in the real world in about 4-7 hours for most tasks, and that demonstrations can decrease this to 2-3 hours, indicating that direct deep RL training in the real world is a viable and practical alternative to simulation and model-based control. https:// sites.google.com/view/deeprl-handmanipulation.


Title: Interactive Open-Ended Object, Affordance and Grasp Learning for Robotic Manipulation
Abstract: Service robots are expected to autonomously and efficiently work in human-centric environments. For this type of robots, object perception and manipulation are challenging tasks due to need for accurate and real-time response. This paper presents an interactive open-ended learning approach to recognize multiple objects and their grasp affordances concurrently. This is an important contribution in the field of service robots since no matter how extensive the training data used for batch learning, a robot might always be confronted with an unknown object when operating in human-centric environments. The paper describes the system architecture and the learning and recognition capabilities. Grasp learning associates grasp configurations (i.e., end-effector positions and orientations) to grasp affordance categories. The grasp affordance category and the grasp configuration are taught through verbal and kinesthetic teaching, respectively. A Bayesian approach is adopted for learning and recognition of object categories and an instance-based approach is used for learning and recognition of affordance categories. An extensive set of experiments has been performed to assess the performance of the proposed approach regarding recognition accuracy, scalability and grasp success rate on challenging datasets and real-world scenarios.


Title: A parallel low-impedance sensing approach for highly responsive physical human-robot interaction
Abstract: This paper presents a novel sensing approach for the physical interaction between a human user and a serial robotic arm. The approach is inspired from the concept of macro-mini robot architecture. The framework is developed for a general multi-degree-of-freedom serial robot and a corresponding impedance control scheme is proposed. In order to illustrate the concept, a five-degree-of-freedom robotic arm was built as well as a six-degree-of-freedom low-impedance sensing device that is used to control the robot. Experimental results are provided.


Title: A Multi-modal Sensor Array for Safe Human-Robot Interaction and Mapping
Abstract: In the future, human-robot interaction will include collaboration in close-quarters where the environment geometry is partially unknown. As a means for enabling such interaction, this paper presents a multi-modal sensor array capable of contact detection and localization, force sensing, proximity sensing, and mapping. The sensor array integrates Hall effect and time-of-flight (ToF) sensors in an I2C communication network. The design, fabrication, and characterization of the sensor array for a future in-situ collaborative continuum robot are presented. Possible perception benefits of the sensor array are demonstrated for accidental contact detection, mapping of the environment, selection of admissible zones for bracing, and constrained motion control of the end effector while maintaining a bracing constraint with an admissible rolling motion.


Title: State Estimation in Contact-Rich Manipulation
Abstract: This paper introduces a Bayesian state estimator for contact-rich manipulation tasks with application in non-prehensile manipulation, industrial assembly or in-hand localization. The core idea of our approach is to explicitly model both the contact dynamics and a torque-based robot controller as part of the underlying system model. Our approach is capable of estimating the state of movable objects for various robot kinematics and geometries of robots and objects. This includes complex scenarios with multiple robots, multiple objects and articulated objects. We have validated our approach in simulation and on a physical robot. The experiments show that multimodal distributions of six degrees of freedom object poses can be accurately tracked in real-time in a complex manipulation scenario.


Title: Improving Haptic Adjective Recognition with Unsupervised Feature Learning
Abstract: Humans can form an impression of how a new object feels simply by touching its surfaces with the densely innervated skin of the fingertips. Many haptics researchers have recently been working to endow robots with similar levels of haptic intelligence, but these efforts almost always employ hand-crafted features, which are brittle, and concrete tasks, such as object recognition. We applied unsupervised feature learning methods, specifically K-SVD and Spatio-Temporal Hierarchical Matching Pursuit (ST-HMP), to rich multi-modal haptic data from a diverse dataset. We then tested the learned features on 19 more abstract binary classification tasks that center on haptic adjectives such as smooth and squishy. The learned features proved superior to traditional hand-crafted features by a large margin, almost doubling the average F1 score across all adjectives. Additionally, particular exploratory procedures (EPs) and sensor channels were found to support perception of certain haptic adjectives, underlining the need for diverse interactions and multi-modal haptic data.


Title: Adaptive Probabilistic Vehicle Trajectory Prediction Through Physically Feasible Bayesian Recurrent Neural Network
Abstract: Probabilistic vehicle trajectory prediction is essential for robust safety of autonomous driving. Current methods for long-term trajectory prediction cannot guarantee the physical feasibility of predicted distribution. Moreover, their models cannot adapt to the driving policy of the predicted target human driver. In this work, we propose to overcome these two shortcomings by a Bayesian recurrent neural network model consisting of Bayesian-neural-network-based policy model and known physical model of the scenario. Bayesian neural network can ensemble complicated output distribution, enabling rich family of trajectory distribution. The embedded physical model ensures feasibility of the distribution. Moreover, the adopted gradient-based training method allows direct optimization for better performance in long prediction horizon. Furthermore, a particle-filter-based parameter adaptation algorithm is designed to adapt the policy Bayesian neural network to the predicted target online. Effectiveness of the proposed methods is verified with a toy example with multi-modal stochastic feedback gain and naturalistic car following data.


Title: Optimizing Vehicle Distributions and Fleet Sizes for Shared Mobility-on-Demand
Abstract: Mobility-on-demand (MoD) systems are revolutionizing urban transit with the introduction of ride-sharing. Such systems have the potential to reduce vehicle congestion and improve accessibility of a city's transportation infrastructure. Recently developed algorithms can compute routes for vehicles in real-time for a city-scale volume of requests while allowing vehicles to carry multiple passengers at the same time. However, these algorithms focus on optimizing the performance for a given fleet of vehicles and do not tell us how many vehicles are needed to service all the requests. In this paper, we present an offline method to optimize the vehicle distributions and fleet sizes on historical demand data for MoD systems that allow passengers to share vehicles. We present an algorithm to determine how many vehicles are needed, where they should be initialized, and how they should be routed to service all the travel demand for a given period of time. Evaluation using 23,529,740 historical taxi requests from one month in Manhattan shows that on average 2864 four passenger vehicles are needed to service all of the taxi demand in a day with an average added travel delay of 2.8 mins.


Title: Robotic Control of a Multi-Modal Rigid Endoscope Combining Optical Imaging with All-Optical Ultrasound
Abstract: Fetoscopy is a technically challenging surgery, due to the dynamic environment and low diameter endoscopes often resulting in a limited field of view. In this paper, we report on the design and operation of a robotic multimodal endoscope with optical ultrasound and white light stereo camera. The manufacture and control of the endoscope is presented, along with large area (80 mm ×80 mm) surface visualisations of a placenta phantom using the optical ultrasound sensor. The repeatability of the surface visualisations was found to be 0. 446 ± 0.139 mm and 0. 267 ± 0.017 mm for a raster and spiral scan, respectively.


Title: Stiffness-Tuneable Limb Segment with Flexible Spine for Malleable Robots
Abstract: Robotic arms built from stiffness-adjustable, continuously bending segments serially connected with revolute joints have the ability to change their mechanical architecture and workspace, thus allowing high flexibility and adaptation to different tasks with less than six degrees of freedom, a concept that we call malleable robots. Known stiffening mechanisms may be used to implement suitable links for these novel robotic manipulators; however, these solutions usually show a reduced performance when bending due to structural deformation. By including an inner support structure this deformation can be minimised, resulting in an increased stiffening performance. This paper presents a new multi-material spine-inspired flexible structure for providing support in stiffness-controllable layer-jamming-based robotic links of large diameter. The proposed spine mechanism is highly movable with type and range of motions that match those of a robotic link using solely layer jamming, whilst maintaining a hollow and light structure. The mechanics and design of the flexible spine are explored, and a prototype of a link utilising it is developed and compared with limb segments based on granular jamming and layer jamming without support structure. Results of experiments verify the advantages of the proposed design, demonstrating that it maintains a constant central diameter across bending angles and presents an improvement of more than 203% of resisting force at 180°.


Title: Diffraction-Aware Sound Localization for a Non-Line-of-Sight Source
Abstract: We present a novel sound localization algorithm for a non-line-of-sight (NLOS) sound source in indoor environments. Our approach exploits the diffraction properties of sound waves as they bend around a barrier or an obstacle in the scene. We combine a ray tracing-based sound propagation algorithm with a Uniform Theory of Diffraction (UTD) model, which simulate bending effects by placing a virtual sound source on a wedge in the environment. We precompute the wedges of a reconstructed mesh of an indoor scene and use them to generate diffraction acoustic rays to localize the 3D position of the source. Our method identifies the convergence region of those generated acoustic rays as the estimated source position based on a particle filter. We have evaluated our algorithm in multiple scenarios consisting of static and dynamic NLOS sound sources. In our tested cases, our approach can localize a source position with an average accuracy error of 0.7m, measured by the L2 distance between estimated and actual source locations in a 7m×7m×3m room. Furthermore, we observe 37% to 130% improvement in accuracy over a state-of-the-art localization method that does not model diffraction effects, especially when a sound source is not visible to the robot.


Title: DeepFusion: Real-Time Dense 3D Reconstruction for Monocular SLAM using Single-View Depth and Gradient Predictions
Abstract: While the keypoint-based maps created by sparse monocular Simultaneous Localisation and Mapping (SLAM) systems are useful for camera tracking, dense 3D reconstructions may be desired for many robotic tasks. Solutions involving depth cameras are limited in range and to indoor spaces, and dense reconstruction systems based on minimising the photometric error between frames are typically poorly constrained and suffer from scale ambiguity. To address these issues, we propose a 3D reconstruction system that leverages the output of a Convolutional Neural Network (CNN) to produce fully dense depth maps for keyframes that include metric scale. Our system, DeepFusion, is capable of producing real-time dense reconstructions on a GPU. It fuses the output of a semi-dense multiview stereo algorithm with the depth and gradient predictions of a CNN in a probabilistic fashion, using learned uncertainties produced by the network. While the network only needs to be run once per keyframe, we are able to optimise for the depth map with each new frame so as to constantly make use of new geometric constraints. Based on its performance on synthetic and real world datasets, we demonstrate that DeepFusion is capable of performing at least as well as other comparable systems.


Title: Continuous Occupancy Map Fusion with Fast Bayesian Hilbert Maps
Abstract: Mapping the occupancy of an environment is central for robot autonomy. Traditional occupancy grid maps discretise the environment into independent cells, neglecting important spatial correlations, and are unable to capture the continuous nature of the real world. With these drawbacks of grid maps in mind, Hilbert Maps (HM) and more recently Bayesian Hilbert Maps (BHMs), were introduced as a continuous representation of the environment. In this paper we propose a method to merge Bayesian Hilbert Maps built by a team of robots in a decentralised manner. The training of BHMs requires the inversion of a large covariance matrix, incurring cubic complexity. We introduce an approximation, Fast Bayesian Hilbert Maps (Fast-BHM), which reduces the time complexity to below quadratic. Such speed-ups allow the building and merging of Bayesian Hilbert Map models to be practical, opening the door for multi-robot Hilbert Map systems which can be much faster and more robust than an individual robot. By merging several individual Fast-BHMs in a decentralised manner we obtain a unified model of the environment which is itself a Fast-BHM. We conduct experiments to show that global Fast-BHM models do not deteriorate after repeated merging and training. We then empirically demonstrate, due to its the compact representation, fused Fast-BHMs outperform fusion methods involving discretising continuous representations, when the amount of information communicated is limited.


Title: Modeling and Control of a Passively-Coupled Tilt-Rotor Vertical Takeoff and Landing Aircraft
Abstract: This paper presents the modeling and control of a passively-coupled tilt-rotor vertical takeoff and landing aircraft. The aircraft consists of a quadrotor frame attached to a fixed-wing aircraft by an unactuated hinged mechanism. The platform is capable of smooth transitions from hover to forward flight without the use of tilting actuators. The transition from hover to forward flight is made possible by differential thrust between the fore and aft propellers of the quadrotor frame. In this paper, the coupled dynamics between the quadrotor frame and the aircraft frame are modeled as a constrained multi-body system. The equations of motion are established using a constrained Lagrangian approach and the model developed is used to build a realistic simulation environment for control design purpose. A cascaded control architecture based on P/PID controllers is proposed to achieve inner-loop attitude, height and forward velocity control. Simulated and experimental results are obtained with a close match for hover, transitions, forward flight, and banked turn maneuvers.


Title: Cargo Transportation Strategy using T3-Multirotor UAV
Abstract: In this paper, we introduce a cargo transportation method with a new type of multi-rotor UAV platform known as T3-multirotor, to achieve stable and constant flight performance regardless of the type of cargo attached to the fuselage. The T3-multirotor, which consists of the `Thrust Generating Part' and the `Fuselage Part', can directly control the relative attitude between the two parts using the novel servomechanism. By utilizing the servomechanism with the proposed relative attitude control strategy, the T3-multirotor with cargo attached to the fuselage part can behave as a multi-rotor with only the moment of inertia of the thrust generating part during entire transportation. This allows the T3-multirotor to achieve the reliable performance in the event of any cargo being attached to the fuselage, achieving stable platform motion control. Detailed hardware description and dynamic analysis of T3-Multirotor is performed in this paper, and the validity of the proposed control strategy is also analyzed. The feasibility of the proposed control strategy is verified through experimental results with analysis.


Title: Design and Implementation of Computer Vision based In-Row Weeding System
Abstract: Autonomous robotic weeding systems in precision farming have demonstrated their full potential to alleviate the current dependency on herbicides or pesticides by introducing selective spraying or mechanical weed removal modules, thus reducing the environmental pollution and improving the sustainability. However, most previous works require fast weed detection system to achieve real-time treatment. In this paper, a novel computer vision based weeding control system is presented, where a non-overlapping multi-camera system is introduced to compensate the indeterminate classification delays, thus allowing for more complicated and advanced detection algorithms, e.g. deep learning based methods. The suitable tracking and control strategies are developed to achieve accurate and robust in-row weed treatment, and the performance of the proposed system is evaluated in different terrain conditions in the presence of various delays.


Title: LSTM-based Network for Human Gait Stability Prediction in an Intelligent Robotic Rollator
Abstract: In this work, we present a novel framework for on-line human gait stability prediction of the elderly users of an intelligent robotic rollator using Long Short Term Memory (LSTM) networks, fusing multimodal RGB-D and Laser Range Finder (LRF) data from non-wearable sensors. A Deep Learning (DL) based approach is used for the upper body pose estimation. The detected pose is used for estimating the body Center of Mass (CoM) using Unscented Kalman Filter (UKF). An Augmented Gait State Estimation framework exploits the LRF data to estimate the legs' positions and the respective gait phase. These estimates are the inputs of an encoder-decoder sequence to sequence model which predicts the gait stability state as Safe or Fall Risk walking. It is validated with data from real patients, by exploring different network architectures, hyperparameter settings and by comparing the proposed method with other baselines. The presented LSTM-based human gait stability predictor is shown to provide robust predictions of the human stability state, and thus has the potential to be integrated into a general user-adaptive control architecture as a fall-risk alarm.


Title: Urban Swarms: A new approach for autonomous waste management
Abstract: Modern cities are growing ecosystems that face new challenges due to the increasing population demands. One of the many problems they face nowadays is waste management, which has become a pressing issue requiring new solutions. Swarm robotics systems have been attracting an increasing amount of attention in the past years and they are expected to become one of the main driving factors for innovation in the field of robotics. The research presented in this paper explores the feasibility of a swarm robotics system in an urban environment. By using bio-inspired foraging methods such as multi-place foraging and stigmergy-based navigation, a swarm of robots is able to improve the efficiency and autonomy of the urban waste management system in a realistic scenario. To achieve this, a diverse set of simulation experiments was conducted using real-world GIS data and implementing different garbage collection scenarios driven by robot swarms. Results presented in this research show that the proposed system outperforms current approaches. Moreover, results not only show the efficiency of our solution, but also give insights about how to design and customize these systems.


Title: A Multi-Vehicle Trajectories Generator to Simulate Vehicle-to-Vehicle Encountering Scenarios
Abstract: Generating multi-vehicle trajectories from existing limited data can provide rich resources for autonomous vehicle development and testing. This paper introduces a multi-vehicle trajectory generator (MTG) that can encode multi-vehicle interaction scenarios (called driving encounters) into an interpretable representation from which new driving encounter scenarios are generated by sampling. The MTG consists of a bi-directional encoder and a multi-branch decoder. A new disentanglement metric is then developed for model analyses and comparisons in terms of model robustness and the independence of the latent codes. Comparison of our proposed MTG with β-VAE and InfoGAN demonstrates that the MTG has stronger capability to purposely generate rational vehicle-to-vehicle encounters through operating the disentangled latent codes. Thus the MTG could provide more data for engineers and researchers to develop testing and evaluation scenarios for autonomous vehicles.


Title: Miniaturization of multistage high dynamic range six-axis force sensor composed of resin material
Abstract: The following topics are dealt with: mobile robots; learning (artificial intelligence); robot vision; path planning; motion control; medical robotics; optimisation; object detection; position control; collision avoidance.


Title: Detection-by-Localization: Maintenance-Free Change Object Detector
Abstract: Recent researches demonstrate that selflocalization performance is a very useful measure of likelihood-of-change (LoC) for change detection. In this paper, this “detection-by-localization” scheme is studied in a novel generalized task of object-level change detection. In our framework, a given query image is segmented into object-level subimages (termed “scene parts”), which are then converted to subimagelevel pixel-wise LoC maps via the detection-by-localization scheme. Our approach models a self-localization system as a ranking function, outputting a ranked list of reference images, without requiring relevance score. Thanks to this new setting, we can generalize our approach to a broad class of selflocalization systems. We further propose an aggregation of different self-localization results from different queries so as to achieve higher precision. Our ranking based self-localization model allows to fuse self-localization results from different modalities via an unsupervised rank fusion derived from a field of multi-modal information retrieval (MMR). Our framework does not rely on the raw-score-merging hypothesis. Challenging experiments of cross-season change detection using the publicly available North Campus Long-Term (NCLT) dataset validates the efficacy of our proposed method.


Title: Object Classification Based on Unsupervised Learned Multi-Modal Features For Overcoming Sensor Failures
Abstract: For autonomous driving applications it is critical to know which type of road users and road side infrastructure are present to plan driving manoeuvres accordingly. Therefore autonomous cars are equipped with different sensor modalities to robustly perceive its environment. However, for classification modules based on machine learning techniques it is challenging to overcome unseen sensor noise. This work presents an object classification module operating on unsupervised learned multi-modal features with the ability to overcome gradual or total sensor failure. A two stage approach composed of an unsupervised feature training and a uni-modal and multimodal classifiers training is presented. We propose a simple but effective decision module switching between uni-modal and multi-modal classifiers based on the closeness in the feature space to the training data. Evaluations on the ModelNet 40 data set show that the proposed approach has a 14% accuracy gain compared to a late fusion approach operating on a noisy point cloud data and a 6% accuracy gain when operating on noisy image data.


Title: Design of a Modular Continuum Robot Segment for use in a General Purpose Manipulator*
Abstract: This paper presents the development of a tendon-driven continuum robot segment with a modular design, simple construction and significant lifting capabilities. The segment features a continuous flexible core combined with rigid interlocking vertebrae evenly distributed along its length. This design allows bending in two degrees of freedom while minimising torsional movement. The segment is actuated by two antagonistic tendon pairs, each of which is driven by a single geared DC motor. Modularity is achieved by embedding these motors in one end of the segment, avoiding the need for a bulky actuation unit and allowing variable numbers of segments to be connected. The design features a large hollow central bore which could be used as a vacuum channel for suction-assisted gripping or to allow ingress and egress of fluids. The design process goes through four iterations, the final two of which are subjected to quantitative experiments to evaluate workspace, lifting capabilities and torsional rigidity. All iterations are fabricated using multi-material 3D printing, which allows the entire structure to be printed as a pre-assembled unit with the rigid vertebrae fused to the flexible core. Assembly is then a simple case of inserting the motors and connecting the tendons. This unconventional manufacturing approach is found to be efficient, effective and relatively cheap.


Title: Analysis of 3D Position Control for a Multi-Agent System of Self-Propelled Agents Steered by a Shared, Global Control Input
Abstract: This paper investigates strategies for 3D multi-agent position control using a shared control input and self-propelled agents. The only control inputs allowed are rotation commands that rotate all agents by the same rotation matrix. In the 2D case, only two degrees-of-freedom (DOF) in position are controllable. We review controllability results in 2D, and then show that interesting things happen in 3D. We provide control laws for steering up to nine DOF in position, which can be mapped in various ways, including to control the x, y, z position of three agents, make four agents meet, or reduce the spread of n agents.


Title: A Heuristic for Task Allocation and Routing of Heterogeneous Robots while Minimizing Maximum Travel Cost
Abstract: The article proposes a new heuristic for task allocation and routing of heterogeneous robots. Specifically, we consider a path planning problem where there are two (structurally) heterogeneous robots that start from distinctive depots and a set of targets to visit. The objective is to find a tour for each robot in a manner that enables each target location to be visited at least once by one of the robots while minimizing the maximum travel cost. A solution for Multiple Depot Heterogeneous Traveling Salesman Problem (MDHTSP) with min-max objective is in great demand with many potential applications, because it can significantly reduce the job completion duration. However, there are still no reliable algorithms that can run in short amount of time. As an initial idea of solving min-max MDHTSP, we present a heuristic based on a primal-dual technique that solves for a case involving two robots while focusing on task allocation. Based on computational results of the implementation, we show that the proposed algorithm produces a good quality of feasible solution within a relatively short computation time.


Title: Solving Methods for Multi-Robot Missions Planning with Energy Capacity Consideration
Abstract: We consider a problem minimizing the total duration of accomplishing missions performed by heterogeneous vehicles. The problem respects constraints related to vehicles' capabilities and energy capacities. The goal is to determine the best routes of each vehicle deployed by choosing which waypoints to pass and which observations to perform. Each vehicle has a particular distance matrix and a limited energy. In order to provide high quality solutions within reasonable computational time, two decomposition-based approximate methods were implemented: (i) the Multiphase heuristic, and (ii) the Two-Phase iterative heuristic. The performance of the methods is evaluated against the Branch-and-Cut algorithm using generated instances.


Title: Salty-A Domain Specific Language for GR(1) Specifications and Designs
Abstract: Designing robot controllers that correctly react to changes in the environment is a time-consuming and error-prone process. An alternative is to use “correct-by-construction” synthesis approaches to automatically generate controller designs from high-level specifications. In particular, Generalized Reactivity(l) or GR(1) specifications are well-suited to express specifications for robots that must act in dynamic environments, and approaches to generate controller designs from GR(1) specifications are highly computationally efficient. Toward that end, this paper presents Salty, a domain-specific language for GR(1) specifications. While tools exist to synthesize system designs from GR(1) specifications, Salty makes such specifications easier to write and debug by supporting features such as richer input and output types, user-defined macros, common specification patterns, and specification optimization and sanity checking. Salty interfaces with the separately developed synthesis tool Slugs to produce a system or controller design, and Salty translates this design to a software implementation in a variety of languages. We demonstrate Salty on an application involving coordination of multiple unmanned air vehicles (UAVs) and provide a workflow for connecting synthesized UAV controllers to freely available UAV planning and simulation software suites UxAS and AMASE.


Title: Persistent Multi-Robot Mapping in an Uncertain Environment
Abstract: This paper proposes a method to deploy teams of robots with constrained energy capacities to persistently maintain a map of an uncertain environment. Typical occupancy map approaches assume a static world; however, we introduce a decay in confidence that degrades the occupancy probability of grid cells and promotes revisitation. Further, sections of the map whose occupancy differs between observations are visited more frequently, while unchanging areas are scheduled less frequently. While naive planning is intractable through the entire space of multi-agent spatio-temporal states, the proposed algorithm decouples planning such that constraints are resolved separately by solving tracTable subproblems. We evaluate this approach in simulation and show how the uncertainty of our world model is maintained below an acceptable threshold while the algorithm retains a tractable computation time.


Title: A Distributed Predictive Control Approach for Cooperative Manipulation of Multiple Underwater Vehicle Manipulator Systems
Abstract: This paper addresses the problem of cooperative object transportation for multiple Underwater Vehicle Manipulator Systems (UVMSs) in a constrained workspace involving static obstacles. We propose a Nonlinear Model Predictive Control (NMPC) approach for a team of UVMSs in order to transport an object while avoiding significant constraints and limitations such as: kinematic and representation singularities, obstacles within the workspace, joint limits and control input saturations. More precisely, by exploiting the coupled dynamics between the robots and the object, and using certain load sharing coefficients, we design a distributed NMPC for each UVMS in order to cooperatively transport the object within the workspace's feasible region. Moreover, the control scheme adopts load sharing among the UVMSs according to their specific payload capabilities. Additionally, the feedback relies on each UVMS's locally measurements and no explicit data is exchanged online among the robots, thus reducing the required communication bandwidth. Finally, real-time simulation results conducted in UwSim dynamic simulator running in ROS environment verify the efficiency of the theoretical finding.


Title: Coordinated Control of a Reconfigurable Multi-Vessel Platform: Robust Control Approach
Abstract: We propose a feedback control system for a reconfigurable multi-vessel platform. The platform consists of N propeller-driven vessels each of which is capable of latching to another vessel to form a rigid body of connected vessels. The main technical challenges are that i) depending on configurations of the platform the dynamic model would be different, and ii) the number of control variables in control system design increases as does the total number of vessels in the platform. To address these challenges, we develop a coordinated robust control scheme. Through experiments we assess trajectory tracking and disturbance attenuation performance of the control scheme in various configurations of the platform. Experiment results yield that average position and orientation tracking error are approximately 0.09m and 3°, and the maximum tracking error-to-disturbance ratio is 1.12.


Title: A Unified Closed-Loop Motion Planning Approach For An I-AUV In Cluttered Environment With Localization Uncertainty
Abstract: This paper presents a unified motion planning approach for an Intervention Autonomous Underwater Vehicle (I-AUV) in a cluttered environment with localization uncertainty. With the uncertainty being propagated by an information filter, a trajectory optimization problem closed by a Linear-Quadratic-Gaussian controller is formulated for a coupled design of optimal trajectory, localization, and control. Due to the presence of obstacles or complexity of the cluttered environment, a set of feasible initial I-AUV trajectories covering multiple homotopy classes are required by optimization solvers. Parameterized through polynomials, the initial base trajectories are from solving quasi-quadratic optimization problems that are linearly constrained by waypoints from RRTconnect, while the initial trajectories of the manipulator are generated by a null space saturation controller. Simulations on an I-AUV with a 3 DOF manipulator in cluttered underwater environments demonstrated that initial trajectories are generated efficiently and that optimal and collision-free I-AUV trajectories with low state uncertainty are obtained.


Title: A bio-robotic remora disc with attachment and detachment capabilities for reversible underwater hitchhiking
Abstract: Remoras employ their adhesive discs to rapidly attach to and detach from a wide range of marine surfaces. By analyzing high-speed images of remoras' (Echeneis naucrates) hitchhiking behavior, we describe the fish's detachment mechanism as a lip curling up to break the seal between the disc and substrate. By mimicking the kinematic and morphological properties of the biological disc, we fabricated a multi-material biomimetic disc (whose stiffness spans four orders of magnitude) that is capable of both attachment and detachment. Detachment is realized by a flexible cable-driven mechanism that curls the anterior region of the silicone soft lip, allows leakage under the disc, and equalizes the internal pressure to the external pressure. The disc lamellae with attached carbon fiber spinules can be rotated by hydraulic soft actuators whose internal pressure is precisely tuned to the ambient underwater pressure. During attachment, increasing the rotational angle of the lamellae and the preload of the disc significantly enhanced the adhesive forces. We found that curling up the soft lip and folding down the lamellae rapidly reduced the pulling force of the disc by a factor of 254 compared to that under the attached state, which lead to detachment. Based on these mechanisms, underwater maneuvers involving repeated attachment and detachment were demonstrated with an integrated ROV unit that had a self-contained actuation and control system for the disc. This study lays a foundation for the development of fully untethered robotic systems for underwater hitchhiking in real-world marine environments.


Title: A Multimodal Aerial Underwater Vehicle with Extended Endurance and Capabilities
Abstract: A new solution to improving the poor endurance of the existing hybrid aerial underwater vehicle (HAUV) is proposed in this paper. The proposed multimodal hybrid aerial underwater vehicle (MHAUV) merges the design concept of the fixed-wing unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV), the multirotor, and the underwater glider (UG) and has a novel lightweight pneumatic buoyancy adjustment system. MHAUV is well suited for moving in distinct medium and can achieve extended endurance for long distance travel in both air and water. The mathematical model is given based on Newton-Euler formalism. Necessary design principles of the vehicle's physical parameters are obtained through different gliding equilibrium points. Then, a control scheme composed of two separate proportional-integral-derivative (PID) is employed for the vehicle's motion control in multi-domain simulation. The simulation results are presented to verify the multi-domain mobility and the mode switch ability of the proposed vehicle intuitively. Finally, a prototype, NEZHA, is introduced to be the experimental platform. The success of the flight test, the hovering test, the underwater glide test, and the medium transition test all contribute to prove the feasibility of the proposed concept of the novel MHAUV.


Title: Design and Experiments of a Squid-Like Aquatic-Aerial Vehicle with Soft Morphing Fins and Arms
Abstract: Aquatic-aerial multimodal vehicle is a new concept aircraft that can freely shuttle between water and air. Some of the natural organisms provide the inspiration to realize this multi-locomotion. Most of current prototypes use rigid link mechanisms or hinges to morph the structure thus to adapt to the aquatic-aerial environment, which is commonly complicated and bulky. In this paper, we present a novel prototype with pneumatically-driven soft fins and arms that can fold and spread just like the flying squid. The fins and arms can augment the lift force during flying by spreading and reduce drag force during swimming by folding. The performance of the morphable structures was investigated in wind and water tunnel. The results explain the tradeoff strategies of multimodal-locomotion between water and air, and verify the feasibility of the novel aquatic-aerial vehicle with soft morphable structures.


Title: Project AutoVision: Localization and 3D Scene Perception for an Autonomous Vehicle with a Multi-Camera System
Abstract: Project AutoVision aims to develop localization and 3D scene perception capabilities for a self-driving vehicle. Such capabilities will enable autonomous navigation in urban and rural environments, in day and night, and with cameras as the only exteroceptive sensors. The sensor suite employs many cameras for both 360-degree coverage and accurate multi-view stereo; the use of low-cost cameras keeps the cost of this sensor suite to a minimum. In addition, the project seeks to extend the operating envelope to include GNSS-less conditions which are typical for environments with tall buildings, foliage, and tunnels. Emphasis is placed on leveraging multi-view geometry and deep learning to enable the vehicle to localize and perceive in 3D space. This paper presents an overview of the project, and describes the sensor suite and current progress in the areas of calibration, localization, and perception.


Title: Unsupervised Learning of Monocular Depth and Ego-Motion Using Multiple Masks
Abstract: A new unsupervised learning method of depth and ego-motion using multiple masks from monocular video is proposed in this paper. The depth estimation network and the ego-motion estimation network are trained according to the constraints of depth and ego-motion without truth values. The main contribution of our method is to carefully consider the occlusion of the pixels generated when the adjacent frames are projected to each other, and the blank problem generated in the projection target imaging plane. Two fine masks are designed to solve most of the image pixel mismatch caused by the movement of the camera. In addition, some relatively rare circumstances are considered, and repeated masking is proposed. To some extent, the method is to use a geometric relationship to filter the mismatched pixels for training, making unsupervised learning more efficient and accurate. The experiments on KITTI dataset show our method achieves good performance in terms of depth and ego-motion. The generalization capability of our method is demonstrated by training on the low-quality uncalibrated bike video dataset and evaluating on KITTI dataset, and the results are still good.


Title: Experimental Evaluation of Teleoperation Interfaces for Cutting of Satellite Insulation
Abstract: On-orbit servicing of satellites is complicated by the fact that almost all existing satellites were not designed to be serviced. This creates a number of challenges, one of which is to cut and partially remove the protective thermal blanketing that encases a satellite prior to performing the servicing operation. A human operator on Earth can perform this task telerobotically, but must overcome difficulties presented by the multi-second round-trip telemetry delay between the satellite and the operator and the limited, or even obstructed, views from the available cameras. This paper reports the results of ground-based experiments with trained NASA robot teleoperators to compare our recently-reported augmented virtuality visualization to the conventional camera-based visualization. We also compare the master console of a da Vinci surgical robot to the conventional teleoperation interface. The results show that, for the cutting task, the augmented virtuality visualization can improve operator performance compared to the conventional visualization, but that operators are more proficient with the conventional control interface than with the da Vinci master console.


Title: Learning Probabilistic Multi-Modal Actor Models for Vision-Based Robotic Grasping
Abstract: Many previous works approach vision-based robotic grasping by training a value network that evaluates grasp proposals. These approaches require an optimization process at run-time to infer the best action from the value network. As a result, the inference time grows exponentially as the dimension of action space increases. We propose an alternative method, by directly training a neural density model to approximate the conditional distribution of successful grasp poses from the input images. We construct a neural network that combines Gaussian mixture and normalizing flows, which is able to represent multi-modal, complex probability distributions. We demonstrate on both simulation and real robot that the proposed actor model achieves similar performance compared to the value network using the Cross-Entropy Method (CEM) for inference, on top-down grasping with a 4 dimensional action space. Our actor model reduces the inference time by 3 times compared to the state-of-the-art CEM method. We believe that actor models will play an important role when scaling up these approaches to higher dimensional action spaces.


Title: Vision-Based Automated Sorting of C. Elegans on a Microfluidic Device
Abstract: This paper reports a vision-based microfluidic system for automated, high-speed sorting of the nematode worm C. elegans. Exceeding the capabilities of conventional worm sorting microfluidic devices purely relying on passive sorting mechanisms, our system is capable of accurate measurement of the worm body length/width and active sorting of worms with the desired sizes from a mixture of worms at different developmental stages. This feature is enabled by the combination of vision-based worm detection and sizing algorithms and automated on-chip worm manipulation. A double-layer microfluidic device with computer-controlled pneumatic valves is developed for sequential loading, trapping, imaging, and sorting of single worms based on vision-based worm size measurement results. To keep the system operation robust, vision-based algorithms for detecting multi-worm loading and worm size measurement failure have also been developed. We conducted sorting experiments on 319 worms and achieve an average sorting speed of 10.4 worms per minute (5.8 s/worm) with an operation success rate of 90.3%. This system will facilitate worm biology studies where body size measurement and size-based sorting of many worms are needed.


Title: Spatiotemporal and Kinetic Gait Analysis System Based on Multisensor Fusion of Laser Range Sensor and Instrumented Insoles
Abstract: Tracking of human legs during walking are key technologies for gait analysis evaluating the movement function of the elderly and patients with gait disorders. Although the motion capture cameras are the gold standard method for gait analysis because of their high accuracy, they are not always accessible in clinical sites because of their cost, scale, and usability. In response, a laser range sensor (LRS), which is used for obstacle avoidance and human detection of mobile robots, has recently been employed for tracking of leg motions. Some previous studies set LRS at shin height and tracked leg motions during walking using three or five observation patterns and the Kalman filtering and data association methods. However, these systems had difficulty in tracking during walking along a circular trajectory including frequent overlaps and occlusions of legs. Therefore, this paper presents a spatiotemporal and kinetic gait analysis system using a single LRS and instrumented insoles and proposes a multisensor fusion algorithm for tracking leg motions. The instrumented insoles are in-shoe devices embedded force sensors and can detect accurate timings of gait events via force sensing. The system identifies gait phases by the fusion algorithm and switches acceleration input added to motion models of tracked legs for the Kalman filter and data association. The tracking performance of the proposed system was evaluated by measuring walking on a circular trajectory in experiments.


Title: Using Variable Natural Environment Brain-Computer Interface Stimuli for Real-time Humanoid Robot Navigation
Abstract: This paper addresses the challenge of humanoid robot teleoperation in a natural indoor environment via a Brain-Computer Interface (BCI). We leverage deep Convolutional Neural Network (CNN) based image and signal understanding to facilitate both real-time object detection and dry-Electroencephalography (EEG) based human cortical brain bio-signals decoding. We employ recent advances in dry-EEG technology to stream and collect the cortical waveforms from subjects while they fixate on variable Steady State Visual Evoked Potential (SSVEP) stimuli generated directly from the environment the robot is navigating. To these ends, we propose the use of novel variable BCI stimuli by utilising the real-time video streamed via the on-board robot camera as visual input for SSVEP, where the CNN detected natural scene objects are altered and flickered with differing frequencies (10Hz, 12Hz and 15Hz). These stimuli are not akin to traditional stimuli - as both the dimensions of the flicker regions and their on-screen position changes depending on the scene objects detected. Onscreen object selection via such a dry-EEG enabled SSVEP methodology, facilitates the on-line decoding of human cortical brain signals, via a specialised secondary CNN, directly into teleoperation robot commands (approach object, move in a specific direction: right, left or back). This SSVEP decoding model is trained via a priori offline experimental data in which very similar visual input is present for all subjects. The resulting classification demonstrates high performance with mean accuracy of 85% for the real-time robot navigation experiment across multiple test subjects.


Title: Look No Deeper: Recognizing Places from Opposing Viewpoints under Varying Scene Appearance using Single-View Depth Estimation
Abstract: Visual place recognition (VPR) - the act of recognizing a familiar visual place - becomes difficult when there is extreme environmental appearance change or viewpoint change. Particularly challenging is the scenario where both phenomena occur simultaneously, such as when returning for the first time along a road at night that was previously traversed during the day in the opposite direction. While such problems can be solved with panoramic sensors, humans solve this problem regularly with limited field-of-view vision and without needing to constantly turn around. In this paper, we present a new depth- and temporal-aware visual place recognition system that solves the opposing viewpoint, extreme appearance-change visual place recognition problem. Our system performs sequence-to-single frame matching by extracting depth-filtered keypoints using a state-of-the-art depth estimation pipeline, constructing a keypoint sequence over multiple frames from the reference dataset, and comparing these keypoints to the keypoints extracted from a single query image. We evaluate the system on a challenging benchmark dataset and show that it consistently outperforms state-of-the-art techniques. We also develop a range of diagnostic simulation experiments that characterize the contribution of depth-filtered keypoint sequences with respect to key domain parameters including the degree of appearance change and camera motion.


Title: A Self-Modulated Impedance Multimodal Interaction Framework for Human-Robot Collaboration
Abstract: Human Robot interaction is a fundamental perquisite for any robot performing a physical task in collaboration with a human. The presence of disturbances arising from the partially known tasks payloads, the unexpected interaction forces in general, and the uncertainty in the interpretation of the human intention in terms of motions and forces can pose significant challenges and eventually compromise the execution of the collaborative task. This work presents a novel, intrinsically adaptable multimodal (force, motion and verbal) interaction framework for human-robot collaboration (HRC) that leverages on an online self-tuning stiffness regulation principle to provide adaptation to interaction/payload forces and reject disturbances arising by unexpected interaction loads. Besides the presented method, it enables the rejection of unnecessary motion commands (e.g. oscillations generated by the human operator) to reach the robot co-worker through the filtering of the human generated motions, that are outside the range (in terms of speed and acceleration) of the envisioned manipulation manoeuvres. Finally, a verbal interaction channel allows the operator to convey securely his high level intentions and to control the states of the task execution. We evaluated and demonstrated the effectiveness of the proposed multimodal interaction framework in a high weight carrying human-robot collaboration task using the humanoid robot COMAN +.


Title: Resilient Task Planning and Execution for Reactive Soft Robots
Abstract: Soft robots utilize compliant materials to perform motions and behaviors not typically achievable by rigid bodied systems. These materials and soft actuator fabrication methods have been leveraged to create multigait walking soft robots. However, soft materials are prone to failure, restricting the ability of soft robots to accomplish tasks. In this work we address the problem of generating reactive controllers for multigait walking soft robots that are resilient to actuator failure by applying methods of formal synthesis. We present a sensing-based abstraction for actuator performance, provide a framework for encoding multigait behavior and actuator failure in Linear Temporal Logic (LTL), and demonstrate synthesized controllers on a physical soft robot.


Title: Dynamic morphological computation through damping design of soft material robots: application to under-actuated grippers
Abstract: This article presents the design of soft material robots with tunable damping properties. This study derives from the investigation of an under-actuated dynamic approach involving multi-chamber pneumatic systems. The co-design of the mechanical parameters (stiffness and damping) of the system along with the time profile of the input allows to obtain different behaviors using a reduced number of feeding line. In this work we analyze via simulations and experiments several approaches to tune the damping of soft robots. The most effective solution employs a layer of granular material immersed in viscous oil within the chamber wall. This method has been employed to realize bending actuators with a continuous deformation pattern. Finally, we show an application involving a two-fingered gripper fed by a single pneumatic line, which is able to perform pinch and power grasp.


Title: Augmented Reality Assisted Instrument Insertion and Tool Manipulation for the First Assistant in Robotic Surgery
Abstract: In robotic-assisted laparoscopic surgery, the first assistant (FA) stands at the bedside assisting the intervention, while the surgeon sits at the console teleoperating the robot. Tasks for the FA include navigating new instruments into the surgeon's field-of-view and passing in or retracting materials from the body using hand-held tools. We previously developed ARssist, an augmented reality application based on an optical see-through head-mounted display, to aid the FA. In this paper, we refine the system and first perform a pilot study with three experienced surgeons for two specific tasks: instrument insertion and tool manipulation. The results suggest that ARssist would be especially useful for less experienced assistants and for difficult hand-eye configurations. We then perform a multi-user study with inexperienced subjects. The results show that ARssist can reduce navigation time by 34.57%, enhance insertion path consistency by 41.74%, reduce root-mean-square path deviation by 40.04%, and reduce tool manipulation time by 72.25%. Thus, ARssist has the potential to improve efficiency, safety and hand-eye coordination, especially for novice assistants.


Title: MID-Fusion: Octree-based Object-Level Multi-Instance Dynamic SLAM
Abstract: We propose a new multi-instance dynamic RGB-D SLAM system using an object-level octree-based volumetric representation. It can provide robust camera tracking in dynamic environments and at the same time, continuously estimate geometric, semantic, and motion properties for arbitrary objects in the scene. For each incoming frame, we perform instance segmentation to detect objects and refine mask boundaries using geometric and motion information. Meanwhile, we estimate the pose of each existing moving object using an object-oriented tracking method and robustly track the camera pose against the static scene. Based on the estimated camera pose and object poses, we associate segmented masks with existing models and incrementally fuse corresponding colour, depth, semantic, and foreground object probabilities into each object model. In contrast to existing approaches, our system is the first system to generate an object-level dynamic volumetric map from a single RGB-D camera, which can be used directly for robotic tasks. Our method can run at 2-3 Hz on a CPU, excluding the instance segmentation part. We demonstrate its effectiveness by quantitatively and qualitatively testing it on both synthetic and real-world sequences.


Title: Surfel-Based Dense RGB-D Reconstruction With Global And Local Consistency
Abstract: Achieving high surface reconstruction accuracy in dense mapping has been a desirable target for both robotics and vision communities. In the robotics literature, simultaneous localization and mapping (SLAM) systems use RGB-D cameras to reconstruct a dense map of the environment. They leverage the depth input to provide accurate local pose estimation and a locally consistent model. However, drift in the pose tracking over time leads to misalignments and artifacts. On the other hand, offline computer vision methods, such as the pipeline that combines structure-from-motion (SfM) and multi-view stereo (MVS), estimate the camera poses by performing batch optimization. These methods achieve global consistency, but suffer from heavy computation loads. We propose a novel approach that integrates both methods to achieve locally and globally consistent reconstruction. First, we estimate poses of keyframes in the offline SfM pipeline to provide strong global constraints at relatively low cost. Afterwards, we compute odometry between frames driven by off-the-shelf SLAM systems with high local accuracy. We fuse the two pose estimations using factor graph optimization to generate accurate camera poses for dense reconstruction. Experiments on real-world and synthetic datasets demonstrate that our approach produces more accurate models comparing to existing dense SLAM systems, while achieving significant speedup with respect to state-of-the-art SfM-MVS pipelines.


Title: Energy Optimal Control Allocation in a Redundantly Actuated Omnidirectional UAV
Abstract: This paper presents a novel actuation model and control allocation strategy for a redundantly-actuated multirotor unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV), referred to as the omnicopter. With an unconventional configuration, the omnicopter's eight propellers are able to produce all the six components of net force/torque, with two degrees of actuation redundancy. This enables the vehicle to execute motion trajectories unattainable with conventional underactuated multi-rotors. A new inverse actuator model is proposed that accounts for the significant interactions between propeller airflows by relating their output thrust forces to their input motor commands. Actuation redundancy is resolved by solving a convex constrained optimization problem. Its solution yields the most power efficient set of propellers thrusts that would produce a required net force/torque, while respecting the propeller thrust limits. When the required force/torque is infeasible due to the thrust limits, the solution would minimize the norm of the error between the desired and actual net force/torque vectors. Experimental results demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed model and control allocation strategy.


Title: 1-Actuator 3-DoF Manipulation Using an Underactuated Mechanism with Multiple Nonparallel and Viscoelastic Passive Joints
Abstract: This paper presents a nonprehensile manipulation based on the vibration of a plate, in which three degrees of freedom (DoF) of a planar part are controlled using only one actuator. First, the model of a manipulator with a flat plate end effector is proposed. The manipulator employs an underactuated mechanism including an active joint and multiple passive viscoelastic joints, in which the joint axes are arranged nonparallel to each other. Based on the model, the orbit of the plate for a sinusoidal displacement input to the active joint is theoretically derived. It is revealed that not only the orbital shape but also the orbital direction can be varied according to the input frequency. Based on the switching frequency of the orbital direction, a design index for the mechanical parameters is shown. Subsequently, the contribution of the switching of the orbital direction to the three-DoF manipulation of a part is explored via simulation. Eight primitives utilizing the plate orbital motions in both counter-clockwise and clockwise directions are provided. Finally, the proposed method is demonstrated by experiments.


Title: Whole-Body Active Compliance Control for Humanoid Robots with Robot Skin
Abstract: Humanoid robots are expected to interact in human environments, where physical interactions are unavoidable. Therefore, whole-body control methods that include multi-contact interactions are required. The new emerging technologies in touch sensing are fundamental to acquire online and rich information about these physical interactions with the environment. These technologies lead to the design of novel control systems that can profit from the tactile sensor information in an efficient form, thus producing reactive and compliant robots capable of interacting with their environment. In this paper, we present a novel control framework to integrate the multi-modal tactile information of a robot skin with different control strategies, producing dynamic behaviours suitable for Human-Robot Interactions (HRI). The control framework was experimentally evaluated on a full-size humanoid robot covered with more than 1260 skin cells distributed in the whole robot body. The results show that multi-modal tactile information can be fused hierarchically with multiple control strategies, producing active compliance in a position-controlled stiff humanoid robot.


Title: Internal Array Electrodes Improve the Spatial Resolution of Soft Tactile Sensors Based on Electrical Resistance Tomography
Abstract: Robots operating in unstructured environments would benefit from soft whole-body tactile sensors, but implementing such systems typically requires complex electrical wiring to a large number of sensing elements. The reconstruction method called electrical resistance tomography (ERT) has shown promising results (good coverage, manufacturability, and robustness) using electrodes located only along the boundary of the sensing region. However, relatively poor spatial resolution in the sensor's central region is a major drawback of the ERT approach. This paper introduces a new scheme of internal array electrodes to improve spatial resolution. We also systematically derive the optimal pairwise current injection patterns from a mathematical formulation of the ERT system. By highlighting the importance of each electrode pair, this approach enabled us to reduce the number of current injection patterns. Simulation of the standard and proposed sensor designs revealed that the internal array electrodes greatly improve distinguishability in the central region. For validation, a fabric-based soft tactile sensor made of multiple conductive fabrics was developed, including electronics that enable sampling at 200 Hz. During a 225-point localization test conducted without sensor-specific calibration, the constructed sensor showed average localization errors of 2.85 cm ± 1.02 cm. This result is notable because only 16 point electrodes were used to achieve this performance.


Title: Pose Graph optimization for Unsupervised Monocular Visual Odometry
Abstract: Unsupervised Learning based monocular visual odometry (VO) has lately drawn significant attention for its potential in label-free leaning ability and robustness to camera parameters and environmental variations. However, partially due to the lack of drift correction technique, these methods are still by far less accurate than geometric approaches for large-scale odometry estimation. In this paper, we propose to leverage graph optimization and loop closure detection to overcome limitations of unsupervised learning based monocular visual odometry. To this end, we propose a hybrid VO system which combines an unsupervised monocular VO called NeuralBundler with a pose graph optimization back-end. NeuralBundler is a neural network architecture that uses temporal and spatial photometric loss as main supervision and generates a windowed pose graph consists of multi-view 6DoF constraints. We propose a novel pose cycle consistency loss to relieve the tensions in the windowed pose graph, leading to improved performance and robustness. In the back-end, a global pose graph is built from local and loop 6DoF constraints estimated by NeuralBundler, and is optimized over SE(3). Empirical evaluation on the KITTI odometry dataset demonstrates that 1) NeuralBundler achieves state-of-the-art performance on unsupervised monocular VO estimation, and 2) our whole approach can achieve efficient loop closing and show favorable overall translational accuracy compared to established monocular SLAM systems.


Title: Empty Cities: Image Inpainting for a Dynamic-Object-Invariant Space
Abstract: In this paper we present an end-to-end deep learning framework to turn images that show dynamic content, such as vehicles or pedestrians, into realistic static frames. This objective encounters two main challenges: detecting all the dynamic objects, and inpainting the static occluded background with plausible imagery. The former challenge is addressed by the use of a convolutional network that learns a multiclass semantic segmentation of the image. The second problem is approached with a conditional generative adversarial model that, taking as input the original dynamic image and its dynamic/static binary mask, is capable of generating the final static image. These generated images can be used for applications such as augmented reality or vision-based robot localization purposes. To validate our approach, we show both qualitative and quantitative comparisons against other state-of-the-art inpainting methods by removing the dynamic objects and hallucinating the static structure behind them. Furthermore, to demonstrate the potential of our results, we carry out pilot experiments that show the benefits of our proposal for visual place recognition.


Title: GANVO: Unsupervised Deep Monocular Visual Odometry and Depth Estimation with Generative Adversarial Networks
Abstract: In the last decade, supervised deep learning approaches have been extensively employed in visual odometry (VO) applications, which is not feasible in environments where labelled data is not abundant. On the other hand, unsupervised deep learning approaches for localization and mapping in unknown environments from unlabelled data have received comparatively less attention in VO research. In this study, we propose a generative unsupervised learning framework that predicts 6-DoF pose camera motion and monocular depth map of the scene from unlabelled RGB image sequences, using deep convolutional Generative Adversarial Networks (GANs). We create a supervisory signal by warping view sequences and assigning the re-projection minimization to the objective loss function that is adopted in multi-view pose estimation and single-view depth generation network. Detailed quantitative and qualitative evaluations of the proposed framework on the KITTI [1] and Cityscapes [2] datasets show that the proposed method outperforms both existing traditional and unsupervised deep VO methods providing better results for both pose estimation and depth recovery.


Title: Fast Instance and Semantic Segmentation Exploiting Local Connectivity, Metric Learning, and One-Shot Detection for Robotics
Abstract: Semantic scene understanding is important for autonomous robots that aim to navigate dynamic environments, manipulate objects, or interact with humans in a natural way. In this paper, we address the problem of jointly performing semantic segmentation as well as instance segmentation in an online fashion, so that autonomous robots can use this information on-the-go and without sacrificing accuracy. We achieve this by exploiting a local connectivity prior of objects in the real world and a multi-task convolutional neural network architecture. The network identifies the individual object instances and their classes without region proposals or pre-segmentation of the images into individual classes. We implemented and thoroughly evaluated our approach, and our experiments suggest that our method can be used to accurately segment instance masks of objects and identify their class in an online fashion.


Title: Adding Cues to Binary Feature Descriptors for Visual Place Recognition
Abstract: In this paper we propose an approach to embed multi-dimensional continuous cues in binary feature descriptors used for visual place recognition. The embedding is achieved by extending each feature descriptor with a binary string that encodes a cue and supports the Hamming distance metric. Augmenting the descriptors in such a way has the advantage of being transparent to the procedure used to compare them. We present a concrete application of our methodology, demonstrating the considered type of continuous cue. Additionally, we conducted a broad quantitative and comparative evaluation on that application, covering five benchmark datasets and several state-of-the-art image retrieval approaches in combination with various binary descriptor types.


Title: Recursive Bayesian Classification for Perception of Evolving Targets using a Gaussian Toroid Prediction Model
Abstract: This paper proposes a probabilistic framework for classification of evolving targets, leveraging the principles of recursive Bayesian estimation in a perception-oriented context. By implementing a Gaussian toroid prediction model of the perception target's evolution, the proposed recursive Bayesian classification (RBC) scheme provides probabilistically robust classification. Appropriate features are extracted from the target, which is then probabilistically represented in a belief space. This approach is capable of handling high-dimensional belief spaces, while simultaneously allowing for multi-Gaussian representation of belief without computational complexity that hinders real-time analysis. The proposed technique is validated over several parameter values by thousands of simulated experiments, where it is shown to outperform naıve classification when high observational uncertainty is present.


Title: Priming Deep Pedestrian Detection with Geometric Context
Abstract: We investigate the role of geometric context in deep neural networks to establish better pedestrian detectors that are more robust to occlusions. Notwithstanding their demonstrated successes, deep object detectors under-perform in crowded scenes with high intra-category occlusions. One brute-force solution is to collect a large number of labeled training samples under occlusion, but the combinatorial increase in the labeling effort makes it an unaffordable solution. We argue that a promising and complementary direction to solve this problem is to bring geometric context to modulate feature learning in a DNN. We identify that an effective way to leverage geometric context is to induce it in two steps - through early fusion, by guiding region proposal generation to focus on occluded regions, and through late fusion, by penalizing misalignments of bounding boxes in both 2D and 3D. Our experiments on multiple state-of-the-art DNN detectors and detection benchmarks clearly demonstrates that our proposed method outperforms strong baselines by an average of 5%.


Title: Balancing Global Exploration and Local-connectivity Exploitation with Rapidly-exploring Random disjointed-Trees
Abstract: Sampling efficiency in a highly constrained environment has long been a major challenge for sampling-based planners. In this work, we propose Rapidly-exploring Random disjointed-Trees* (RRdT*), an incremental optimal multi-query planner. RRdT* uses multiple disjointed-trees to exploit local-connectivity of spaces via Markov Chain random sampling, which utilises neighbourhood information derived from previous successful and failed samples. To balance local exploitation, RRdT* actively explore unseen global spaces when local-connectivity exploitation is unsuccessful. The active trade-off between local exploitation and global exploration is formulated as a multi-armed bandit problem. We argue that the active balancing of global exploration and local exploitation is the key to improving sample efficient in sampling-based motion planners. We provide rigorous proofs of completeness and optimal convergence for this novel approach. Furthermore, we demonstrate experimentally the effectiveness of RRdT*'s locally exploring trees in granting improved visibility for planning. Consequently, RRdT* outperforms existing state-of-the-art incremental planners, especially in highly constrained environments.


Title: Geometric Search-Based Inverse Kinematics of 7-DoF Redundant Manipulator with Multiple Joint Offsets
Abstract: We propose a geometric method to solve inverse kinematics (IK) problems of 7-DoF manipulators with joint offsets at shoulder, elbow, and wrist. Traditionally, inverse position kinematics for redundant manipulators are solved by using an iterative method based on the pseudo-inverse of the manipulator Jacobian. This provides a single solution among the infinitely many possible solutions for the IK problem of redundant manipulators. There are no closed-form IK solutions for redundant manipulators with multiple joint offsets. Using our method we can compute multiple IK solutions using two-parameter search by exploiting geometry of the structure of a redundant manipulator. Our proposed IK algorithm can handle multiple joint offsets and is mathematically simple to implement in a few lines of code. We apply our algorithm to compute IK solutions for 7-DoF redundant Baxter robot (that has joint offsets at shoulder, wrist, and elbow joints) for end-effector configurations where existing geometry-based IK solvers fail to find solutions. We also demonstrate the use of our algorithm in an application where we want to compute an IK solution (among the infinitely many possible solutions) that has minimum error bound in end-effector position, in the presence of random joint actuation and sensing uncertainties.


Title: Model-free Online Motion Adaptation for Optimal Range and Endurance of Multicopters
Abstract: In this work we introduce an approach that allows a quadcopter to find the velocity which maximizes its flight time (endurance) or flight distance (range) while moving along a given path, using on-board power measurement. The proposed strategy is based on Extremum Seeking control and (a) does not require any model of the power consumption of the system, (b) can be executed on-line, and (c) guarantees adaptation to unknown disturbances. We show experimentally that hovering is not the most energy-efficient loitering strategy, and we demonstrate the proposed method's ability to adapt to different aerodynamic disturbances, such as payloads. The method may be especially useful in applications where a quadcopter carries an unknown payload, allowing it to adapt for improved range.


Title: Multi-view Reconstruction of Wires using a Catenary Model
Abstract: Reliable detection and reconstruction of wires is one of the hardest problems in the UAV community, with a wide ranging impact in the industry in terms of wire avoidance capabilities and powerline corridor inspection. In this work, we introduce a real-time, model-based, multi-view algorithm to reconstruct wires from a set of images with known camera poses, while exploiting their natural shape - the catenary curve. Using a model-based approach helps us deal with partial wire detections in images, which may occur due to natural occlusion and false negatives. In addition, using a parsimonious model makes our algorithm efficient as we only need to optimize for 5 model parameters, as opposed to hundreds of 3D points in bundle-adjustment approaches. Our algorithm obviates the need for pixel correspondences by computing the reprojection error via the distance transform of binarized wire segmentation images. Further, we make our algorithm robust to arbitrary initializations by introducing an on-demand, approximate extrapolation of the distance transform based objective. We demonstrate the effectiveness of our algorithm against false negatives and random initializations in simulation, and show qualitative results with real data collected from a small UAV.


Title: Real-time Optimal Planning and Model Predictive Control of a Multi-rotor with a Suspended Load
Abstract: This paper presents planning and control algorithms for a multi-rotor with a suspended load. The suspended load cannot be controlled easily by the multi-rotor due to severe dynamic coupling between them. Difficulties are exacerbated by under-actuated, highly nonlinear nature of multi-rotor dynamics. Although many studies have been proposed to plan trajectories and control this system, there exist only a few reports on real-time trajectory generation. With this in mind, we propose a planning method which is capable of generating collision-free trajectories real-time and applicable to a high-dimensional nonlinear system. Using a differential flatness property, the system can be linearized entirely with elaborately chosen flat outputs. Convexification of non-convex constraints is carried out, and concave obstacle-avoidance constraints are converted to convex ones. After that, a convex optimization problem is solved to generate an optimal trajectory, but semi-feasible trajectory which considers only some parts of the initial state. We apply model predictive control with a sequential linear quadratic solver to compute a feasible collision-free trajectory and to control the system. Performance of the algorithm is validated by flight experiment.


Title: DFNet: Semantic Segmentation on Panoramic Images with Dynamic Loss Weights and Residual Fusion Block
Abstract: For the domain of self-driving and automatic parking, perception is a basic and critical technique, moreover, the detection of lane markings and parking slots is an important part of visual perception. Compared with front sight images, panoramic images(PI) can capture more comprehensive pavement information. However, the imbalance of different classes in PI is even more serious. Additionally, the judgment of boundary information between areas is a hard problem in deep models. Therefore, we propose a new model named DFNet to solve these problems. The proposed model has two main contributions, one is dynamic loss weights, and the other is residual fusion block(RFB). DFNet use dynamic loss weights to overcome the negative effect of imbalance dataset, which are calculated according to the pixel number of each class in a batch. RFB is composed of several convolutional layers, a pooling layer, and a fusion layer to combine the feature maps by pixel multiplication, which can reduce boundary information loss. We evaluate our method on PSV dataset, and the achieved advanced results demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed model.


Title: Graduated Fidelity Lattices for Motion Planning under Uncertainty
Abstract: In this work we present a state lattice based approach for motion planning in mobile robotics. Sensing and motion uncertainty are managed at planning time to obtain safe and optimal paths. To do this reliably, our approach estimates the probability of collision taking into account the robot shape and the uncertainty in heading. We also introduce a novel graduated fidelity approach and a multi-resolution heuristic which adapt to the obstacles in the map, improving the planning efficiency while maintaining its performance. Results for different environments, shapes and motion models are reported, including experiments with real robots.


Title: Simulated Annealing-optimized Trajectory Planning within Non-Collision Nominal Intervals for Highway Autonomous Driving
Abstract: This article considers the problem of near-optimal trajectory generation for autonomous vehicles on highways. The goal is to select a predictive reference trajectory in the free evolution space, while avoiding both generating a pre-calculated set of candidate trajectories and decoupling path and velocity optimizations. Moreover, this trajectory aims at optimizing a decision process based on multi-criteria functions, which are not straightforward to design and can have a blackbox formulation. The main idea of this article is to use the decision evaluation function in the trajectory generator with a Simulated Annealing (SA) approach. The parameters of a sigmoid trajectory are optimized within Non-Collision Nominal Intervals (NCNI), which are defined as collision-free intervals under nominal conditions using a velocity-space representation.


Title: Night-to-Day Image Translation for Retrieval-based Localization
Abstract: Visual localization is a key step in many robotics pipelines, allowing the robot to (approximately) determine its position and orientation in the world. An efficient and scalable approach to visual localization is to use image retrieval techniques. These approaches identify the image most similar to a query photo in a database of geo-tagged images and approximate the query's pose via the pose of the retrieved database image. However, image retrieval across drastically different illumination conditions, e.g. day and night, is still a problem with unsatisfactory results, even in this age of powerful neural models. This is due to a lack of a suitably diverse dataset with true correspondences to perform end-to-end learning. A recent class of neural models allows for realistic translation of images among visual domains with relatively little training data and, most importantly, without ground-truth pairings.In this paper, we explore the task of accurately localizing images captured from two traversals of the same area in both day and night. We propose ToDayGAN - a modified image-translation model to alter nighttime driving images to a more useful daytime representation. We then compare the daytime and translated night images to obtain a pose estimate for the night image using the known 6-DOF position of the closest day image. Our approach improves localization performance by over 250% compared the current state-of-the-art, in the context of standard metrics in multiple categories.


Title: Efficient 2D-3D Matching for Multi-Camera Visual Localization
Abstract: Visual localization, i.e., determining the position and orientation of a vehicle with respect to a map, is a key problem in autonomous driving. We present a multi-camera visual inertial localization algorithm for large scale environments. To efficiently and effectively match features against a pre-built global 3D map, we propose a prioritized feature matching scheme for multi-camera systems. In contrast to existing works, designed for monocular cameras, we (1) tailor the prioritization function to the multi-camera setup and (2) run feature matching and pose estimation in parallel. This significantly accelerates the matching and pose estimation stages and allows us to dynamically adapt the matching efforts based on the surrounding environment. In addition, we show how pose priors can be integrated into the localization system to increase efficiency and robustness. Finally, we extend our algorithm by fusing the absolute pose estimates with motion estimates from a multi-camera visual inertial odometry pipeline (VIO). This results in a system that provides reliable and drift-less pose estimation. Extensive experiments show that our localization runs fast and robust under varying conditions, and that our extended algorithm enables reliable real-time pose estimation.


Title: A Reinforcement Learning Approach for Control of a Nature-Inspired Aerial Vehicle
Abstract: In this work, reinforcement learning is used to develop a position controller for an underactuated nature-inspired Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV). This particular configuration of UAVs achieves lift by spinning its entire body contrary to standard multi-rotors or fixed-wing aircraft. Deep Deterministic Policy Gradients (DDPG) with Ape-X Distributed Prioritized Experience Replay was used to train neural network function approximators that were implemented as the final control policy. The reinforcement learning agent was trained in simulations and directly ported over to real-life hardware. Position control tests were performed on the learned control policy and compared to a baseline PID controller. The learned controller was found to exhibit better control over the inherent oscillations that arise from the non-linear dynamics of the platform.


Title: DoS-Resilient Multi-Robot Temporal Logic Motion Planning
Abstract: We propose an efficient multi-robot motion planning algorithm for missions captured by linear temporal logic (LTL) specifications, in the presence of bounded disturbances and denial-of-service (DoS) attacks against the communication between robots and base stations. Given an LTL formula Ψ, our goal is to construct robot trajectories, and associated control strategies, to satisfy Ψ and continuously establish communication paths between robots and base stations despite the DoS attacks and the disturbances on the robot states. Our approach combines and extends results from robust control and efficient motion planning via satisfiability modulo convex programming (SMC). We first compute a feedback controller that rejects the disturbance together with a perturbation of the DoS-free workspace that accounts for the worst-case disturbance scenario. On the perturbed workspace, we formulate the planning problem as a feasibility problem over Boolean and convex constraints, respectively capturing the DoS-resilient mission constraints and the constraints on the nominal, disturbance-free, robot dynamics. Numerical results show the effectiveness of our algorithm in providing DoS-resilient plans that are robust to disturbances and support the execution of complex missions.


Title: Task-Based Design of Ad-hoc Modular Manipulators
Abstract: The great promise of modular robots is the ability to create on demand robots; however, choosing the “right” design based on a task is still a challenging problem. In this paper, we present an approach to automatically synthesize both the design and control for modular robots from a task description. In particular, we focus on manipulators composed of one degree-of-freedom (DoF) modules. Our approach is able to handle partially infeasible tasks by either identifying the infeasible part and finding a design that satisfies the feasible part or searching for multiple designs that together satisfy the entire task. We compare our approach to a baseline genetic algorithm in a series of increasingly complex environments.


Title: SweepNet: Wide-baseline Omnidirectional Depth Estimation
Abstract: Omnidirectional depth sensing has its advantage over the conventional stereo systems since it enables us to recognize the objects of interest in all directions without any blind regions. In this paper, we propose a novel wide-baseline omnidirectional stereo algorithm which computes the dense depth estimate from the fisheye images using a deep convolutional neural network. The capture system consists of multiple cameras mounted on a wide-baseline rig with ultra-wide field of view (FOV) lenses, and we present the calibration algorithm for the extrinsic parameters based on the bundle adjustment. Instead of estimating depth maps from multiple sets of rectified images and stitching them, our approach directly generates one dense omnidirectional depth map with full 360° coverage at the rig global coordinate system. To this end, the proposed neural network is designed to output the cost volume from the warped images in the sphere sweeping method, and the final depth map is estimated by taking the minimum cost indices of the aggregated cost volume by SGM. For training the deep neural network and testing the entire system, realistic synthetic urban datasets are rendered using Blender. The experiments using the synthetic and real-world datasets show that our algorithm outperforms the conventional depth estimation methods and generate highly accurate depth maps.


Title: Real-Time Dense Mapping for Self-Driving Vehicles using Fisheye Cameras
Abstract: We present a real-time dense geometric mapping algorithm for large-scale environments. Unlike existing methods which use pinhole cameras, our implementation is based on fisheye cameras whose large field of view benefits various computer vision applications for self-driving vehicles such as visual-inertial odometry, visual localization, and object detection. Our algorithm runs on in-vehicle PCs at approximately 15 Hz, enabling vision-only 3D scene perception for self-driving vehicles. For each synchronized set of images captured by multiple cameras, we first compute a depth map for a reference camera using plane-sweeping stereo. To maintain both accuracy and efficiency, while accounting for the fact that fisheye images have a lower angular resolution, we recover the depths using multiple image resolutions. We adopt the fast object detection framework, YOLOv3, to remove potentially dynamic objects. At the end of the pipeline, we fuse the fisheye depth images into the truncated signed distance function (TSDF) volume to obtain a 3D map. We evaluate our method on large-scale urban datasets, and results show that our method works well in complex dynamic environments.


Title: Discrete Layer Jamming for Safe Co-Robots
Abstract: High injury severity occurs when a stiff robot arm hits an operator. Introducing compliance into robot systems reduces the impact and enables safe interaction, but at the expense of positioning performance and payload capacity. This paper presents a tunable stiffness mechanism for safe human-robot interaction based on discrete layer jamming. The proposed design of a discrete layer jamming mechanism is a robot link made of multiple thin layers of ABS and multiple clamps. By applying high clamping pressure to the laminates, the link behaves like a rigid link; reducing the clamping pressure softens the link which yields safer human-robot interaction. Compared to conventional pneumatic layer jamming, discrete layer jamming allows for simplicity of installation with dynamic actuators, faster control, greater portability since no air supply is needed, and no sealing issues. To validate the concept, this paper investigates a discrete layer jamming beam made of ten ABS laminates and two aluminum clamps that cover 10% of the surface of the beam. Stiffness tests have been performed, showing that around 17 times bending stiffness change is achieved by increasing the clamping pressure of two clamps from 0 to 1 MPa.


Title: Lifelong Learning for Heterogeneous Multi-Modal Tasks
Abstract: In this work, we investigate the lifelong learning problem from the viewpoint of heterogeneous multi-modal fusion. The main challenges come from the fact that the common representation between heterogeneous modalities should be persistently learned and the learned classifier for each multi-modal task should be persistently updated. To address this problem, we construct a multi-modal lifelong learning framework which deals with the consecutive multi-modal learning tasks and develop an efficient online dictionary learning algorithm to solve the multi-modal lifelong learning problem. Finally, we perform experimental validation on a complicated material recognition task and show the promising results.


Title: Assembly of Multilayered Hepatic Lobule-like Vascular Network by using Heptapole Magnetic Tweezer
Abstract: In this paper, we have fabricated a multilayered hepatic lobule-like vascular network in a 3D tissue using a heptapole magnetic tweezer. The tissue consists of cell-laden hydrogels with 3D channel networks. To fabricate multilayered channel system, magnetic hydrogel fibers were manipulated by a magnetic tweezer. The hepatic lobule tissue shows a hexagonal structure with different sizes of veins. Six portal veins transfer the blood including nutrients and oxygen to a central vein by sinusoids. The portal and central veins are made by steel rods, whereas the magnetic hydrogel fibers has a role of sinusoids. An important point of this research is to connect two veins - portal and central vein - by magnetic fibers. For this, we used magnetic tweezer with seven poles to magnetize the steel rods. In order to generate high magnetic fields, we design magnetic tweezer with a flat tip and additional lower tweezer based on simulation data. The manipulation was performed in fibrin gel inside rat liver cells. By applying high magnetic fields, we attracted magnetic fibers to the steel rods and constructed 3D channel network in cellular structure. To verify the efficiency of the channel, we supply culture medium to the channel and then analyze the cell viability according to the distance from the channel. As a result, the cells located at close to the channel show higher cell viability than others.


Title: Miniature Robotic Tubes with Rotational Tip-Joints as a Medical Delivery Platform
Abstract: We present a medical-needle-sized robotic tube with multi-degrees of freedom (M-DOF) rotational hinge joints at the instrument tip, fabricated by two-axis laser micro-machining. Due to the presence of an ample working channel and direct tip controllability, this tube is a potential candidate for the precise delivery of radioactive seeds, probes and micro-forceps to regions of interest within the human body. In this paper, the advantages of the proposed hinged instrument are studied in contrast with that of flexure joints, which include-fine angle control (posability), and a shorter joint length that enables compact articulation. In addition, the joint strength both in the axial and lateral directions was experimentally investigated to demonstrate its feasibility as a robust delivery platform. Further, the intuitive nature of hinge rotation permits the use of a simple kinematic model for accurate tip motion control, under fewer simplifying assumptions than flexure joints which are impeded by material non-linearity and geometric discontinuities. An instrumented prototype was used to test this model by delivering a laser beam along a prescribed path (synonymous to simple ablation tasks). The observed RMS position error for the projected beam was ~0.364 mm.


Title: Data Driven Inverse Kinematics of Soft Robots using Local Models
Abstract: Soft robots are advantageous in terms of flexibility, safety and adaptability. It is challenging to find efficient computational approaches for planning and controlling their motion. This work takes a direct data-driven approach to learn the kinematics of the three-dimensional shape of a soft robot, by using visual markers. No prior information about the robot at hand is required. The model is oblivious to the design of the robot and type of actuation system. This allows adaptation to erroneous manufacturing. We present a highly versatile and inexpensive learning cube environment for collecting and analysing data. We prove that using multiple, lower order models of data opposed to one global, higher order model, will reduce the required data quantity, time complexity and memory complexity significantly without compromising accuracy. Further, our approach allows for embarrassingly parallelism. Yielding an overall much more simple and efficient approach.


Title: A Validated Physical Model For Real-Time Simulation of Soft Robotic Snakes
Abstract: In this work we present a framework that is capable of accurately representing soft robotic actuators in a multiphysics environment in real-time. We propose a constraint-based dynamics model of a 1-dimensional pneumatic soft actuator that accounts for internal pressure forces, as well as the effect of actuator latency and damping under inflation and deflation and demonstrate its accuracy a full soft robotic snake with the composition of multiple 1D actuators. We verify our model's accuracy in static deformation and dynamic locomotion open-loop control experiments. To achieve real-time performance we leverage the parallel computation power of GPUs to allow interactive control and feedback.


Title: 3D Keypoint Repeatability for Heterogeneous Multi-Robot SLAM
Abstract: For robots with different types of sensors, loop closure in a multi-robot SLAM scenario requires keypoints that can be matched between sensor measurement point clouds with different properties such as point density and noise. In this paper, we evaluate the performance of several 3D keypoint detectors (Harris3D, ISS, KPQ, KPQ-SI, and NARF) for repeatability between scans from different sensors towards building a heterogeneous multi-robot SLAM system. We find that KPQ-SI and NARF have the best relative repeatability, with KPQ-SI finding more keypoints overall and a higher number of repeatable keypoints, at the cost of significantly worse computational performance. In scans of the same area from different poses, both detectors find enough keypoints for point cloud registration and loop closure. For heterogenous multirobot SLAM applications with computational or bandwidth restrictions, the NARF detector consistently finds repeatable keypoints while also allowing for real-time performance.


Title: ROVO: Robust Omnidirectional Visual Odometry for Wide-baseline Wide-FOV Camera Systems
Abstract: In this paper we propose a robust visual odometry system for a wide-baseline camera rig with wide field-of-view (FOV) fisheye lenses, which provides full omnidirectional stereo observations of the environment. For more robust and accurate ego-motion estimation we adds three components to the standard VO pipeline, 1) the hybrid projection model for improved feature matching, 2) multi-view P3P RANSAC algorithm for pose estimation, and 3) online update of rig extrinsic parameters. The hybrid projection model combines the perspective and cylindrical projection to maximize the overlap between views and minimize the image distortion that degrades feature matching performance. The multi-view P3P RANSAC algorithm extends the conventional P3P RANSAC to multi-view images so that all feature matches in all views are considered in the inlier counting for robust pose estimation. Finally the online extrinsic calibration is seamlessly integrated in the backend optimization framework so that the changes in camera poses due to shocks or vibrations can be corrected automatically. The proposed system is extensively evaluated with synthetic datasets with ground-truth and real sequences of highly dynamic environment, and its superior performance is demonstrated.


Title: Multirotor dynamics based online scale estimation for monocular SLAM
Abstract: This paper proposes a novel method to estimate the scale online for monocular SLAM. Unlike conventional scale estimation methods that require a metric sensor such as an IMU and apriori knowledge of its biases, this approach estimates the scale online by solely using the monocular camera and multirotor dynamics model in an extended Kalman Filter framework. Further, we discuss the observability of scale and theoretically show that the scale becomes observable when multirotor dynamics model and monocular vision are used in conjunction. We validate our proposition with extensive experimentation on the local as well as on the standard datasets and compare the same with other state of the art methods.


Title: Dentronics: Review, First Concepts and Pilot Study of a New Application Domain for Collaborative Robots in Dental Assistance
Abstract: In this paper we introduce dentronics as a new emerging application domain for collaborative lightweight robots in the dental context backed up by a user survey supporting the clear need. Specifically, we developed a multi-modal interaction framework, applied this framework to a specific dental use-case, and conducted a preliminary user-study for evaluation. Our results demonstrate usability and feasibility beyond a controlled experimental setup. We conclude that dentronics is indeed within reach given today's technology and deserves further investigation towards clinical use.


Title: Activity recognition in manufacturing: The roles of motion capture and sEMG+inertial wearables in detecting fine vs. gross motion
Abstract: In safety-critical environments, robots need to reliably recognize human activity to be effective and trust-worthy partners. Since most human activity recognition (HAR) approaches rely on unimodal sensor data (e.g. motion capture or wearable sensors), it is unclear how the relationship between the sensor modality and motion granularity (e.g. gross or fine) of the activities impacts classification accuracy. To our knowledge, we are the first to investigate the efficacy of using motion capture as compared to wearable sensor data for recognizing human motion in manufacturing settings. We introduce the UCSD-MIT Human Motion dataset, composed of two assembly tasks that entail either gross or fine-grained motion. For both tasks, we compared the accuracy of a Vicon motion capture system to a Myo armband using three widely used HAR algorithms. We found that motion capture yielded higher accuracy than the wearable sensor for gross motion recognition (up to 36.95%), while the wearable sensor yielded higher accuracy for fine-grained motion (up to 28.06%). These results suggest that these sensor modalities are complementary, and that robots may benefit from systems that utilize multiple modalities to simultaneously, but independently, detect gross and fine-grained motion. Our findings will help guide researchers in numerous fields of robotics including learning from demonstration and grasping to effectively choose sensor modalities that are most suitable for their applications.


Title: Localization and Tracking of Uncontrollable Underwater Agents: Particle Filter Based Fusion of On-Body IMUs and Stationary Cameras
Abstract: Tracking of uncontrollable agents in a controlled environment is an important research question for the coordination of controllable and uncontrollable agents and bio-inspired multi-agent control. This paper presents a framework that approaches the multiagent tracking problem from a localization perspective, utilizing a combination of wearable sensors and stationary cameras. Specifically, this framework was applied to localize uncontrollable biological agents (dolphins) in a well defined environment. The biological agents were outfitted with wearable sensors (IMU, speed, depth) and were free to move in their three dimensional habitat. The dynamic data collected by the wearable sensors was supplemented with image data collected using a pair of cameras mounted above the habitat. The framework presented in this paper combines data from these sensor streams to calculate an accurate estimate of the animal's location during extended periods of free movement. The associations between camera detections and tagged agents are handled using a particle filter embedded with a fuzzy observation concept. The platform is readily implementable in similar water / land environments, and is able to handle nonlinear agent dynamics, non-Gaussian noise, and sparse camera observations while maintaining robust agent localization and tracking.


Title: Uncertainty Estimation for Projecting Lidar Points onto Camera Images for Moving Platforms
Abstract: Combining multiple sensors for advanced perception is a crucial requirement for autonomous vehicle navigation. Heterogeneous sensors are used to obtain rich information about the surrounding environment. The combination of the camera and lidar sensors enables precise range information that can be projected onto the visual image data. This gives a high level understanding of the scene which can be used to enable context based algorithms such as collision avoidance and navigation. The main challenge when combining these sensors is aligning the data into a common domain. This can be difficult due to the errors in the intrinsic calibration of the camera, extrinsic calibration between the camera and the lidar and errors resulting from the motion of the platform. In this paper, we examine the algorithms required to provide motion correction for scanning lidar sensors. The error resulting from the projection of the lidar measurements into a consistent odometry frame is not possible to remove entirely, and as such it is essential to incorporate the uncertainty of this projection when combining the two different sensor frames. This work proposes a novel framework for the prediction of the uncertainty of lidar measurements (in 3D) projected in to the image frame (in 2D) for moving platforms. The proposed approach fuses the uncertainty of the motion correction with uncertainty resulting from errors in the extrinsic and intrinsic calibration. By incorporating the main components of the projection error, the uncertainty of the estimation process is better represented. Experimental results for our motion correction algorithm and the proposed extended uncertainty model are demonstrated using real-world data collected on an electric vehicle equipped with wide-angle cameras covering a 180-degree field of view and a 16-beam scanning lidar.


Title: Interaction-aware Multi-agent Tracking and Probabilistic Behavior Prediction via Adversarial Learning
Abstract: In order to enable high-quality decision making and motion planning of intelligent systems such as robotics and autonomous vehicles, accurate probabilistic predictions for surrounding interactive objects is a crucial prerequisite. Although many research studies have been devoted to making predictions on a single entity, it remains an open challenge to forecast future behaviors for multiple interactive agents simultaneously. In this work, we take advantage of the Generative Adversarial Network (GAN) due to its capability of distribution learning and propose a generic multi-agent probabilistic prediction and tracking framework which takes the interactions among multiple entities into account, in which all the entities are treated as a whole. However, since GAN is very hard to train, we make an empirical research and present the relationship between training performance and hyperparameter values with a numerical case study. The results imply that the proposed model can capture both the mean, variance and multi-modalities of the groundtruth distribution. Moreover, we apply the proposed approach to a real-world task of vehicle behavior prediction to demonstrate its effectiveness and accuracy. The results illustrate that the proposed model trained by adversarial learning can achieve a better prediction performance than other state-of-the-art models trained by traditional supervised learning which maximizes the data likelihood. The well-trained model can also be utilized as an implicit proposal distribution for particle filtered based Bayesian state estimation.


Title: Model Predictive Control of Ride-sharing Autonomous Mobility-on-Demand Systems
Abstract: This paper presents a model predictive control (MPC) approach to optimize routes for Ride-sharing Autonomous Mobility-on-Demand (RAMoD) systems, whereby self-driving vehicles provide coordinated on-demand mobility, possibly allowing multiple customers to share a ride. Specifically, we first devise a time-expanded network flow model for RAMoD. Second, leveraging this model, we design a real-time MPC algorithm to optimize the routes of both empty and customer-carrying vehicles, with the goal of optimizing social welfare, namely, a weighted combination of customers' travel time and vehicles' mileage. Finally, we present a real-world case study for the city of San Francisco, CA, by using the micro-scopic traffic simulator MATSim. The simulation results show that a RAMoD system can significantly improve social welfare with respect to a single-occupancy Autonomous Mobility-on-Demand (AMoD) system, and that the predictive structure of the proposed MPC controller allows it to outperform existing reactive ride-sharing coordination algorithms for RAMoD.


Title: A Hierarchical Framework for Coordinating Large-Scale Robot Networks
Abstract: In this paper, we study the cooperative path planning and motion coordination problems of the multi-robot system with large number of robots, aiming for practical applications in robotic warehouses and automated transportation systems. Particularly, we solve the life-long planning problem and guarantee the coordination performance in the presence of robot motion uncertainties. A hierarchical path planning and motion coordination structure is presented. The environment is divided into several sectors and a traffic heat-map is presented to describe the current sector-level traffic condition. In path planning level, the sector-level path is calculated by considering the path distance, the current traffic condition and the current robot uncertainty. In motion coordination level, local cooperative A* algorithm and conflict-based searching strategy are utilized within each sector to generate the collision-free local path of each robot in a rolling planning manner. The effectiveness and practical applicability of the proposed approach are validated by simulations with more than one thousand robots and real experiments.


Title: Skill Acquisition via Automated Multi-Coordinate Cost Balancing
Abstract: We propose a learning framework, named Multi-Coordinate Cost Balancing (MCCB), to address the problem of acquiring point-to-point movement skills from demonstrations. MCCB encodes demonstrations simultaneously in multiple differential coordinates that specify local geometric properties. MCCB generates reproductions by solving a convex optimization problem with a multi-coordinate cost function and linear constraints on the reproductions, such as initial, target, and via points. Further, since the relative importance of each coordinate system in the cost function might be unknown for a given skill, MCCB learns optimal weighting factors that balance the cost function. We demonstrate the effectiveness of MCCB via detailed experiments conducted on one handwriting dataset and three complex skill datasets.


Title: Real-time Multisensory Affordance-based Control for Adaptive Object Manipulation
Abstract: We address the challenge of how a robot can adapt its actions to successfully manipulate objects it has not previously encountered. We introduce Real-time Multisensory Affordance-based Control (RMAC), which enables a robot to adapt existing affordance models using multisensory inputs. We show that using the combination of haptic, audio, and visual information with RMAC allows the robot to learn afforance models and adaptively manipulate two very different objects (drawer, lamp), in multiple novel configurations. Offline evaluations and real-time online evaluations show that RMAC allows the robot to accurately open different drawer configurations and turn-on novel lamps with an average accuracy of 75%.


Title: Learning Behavior Trees From Demonstration
Abstract: Robotic Learning from Demonstration (LfD) allows anyone, not just experts, to program a robot for an arbitrary task. Many LfD methods focus on low level primitive actions such as manipulator trajectories. Complex multistep task with many primitive actions must be learned from demonstration if LfD is to encompass the full range of task a user may desire. Existing methods represent the high level task in various forms including, finite state machines, decision trees, formal logic, among others. Behavior trees are proposed as an alternative representation of high level task. Behavior trees are an execution model for the control of a robot designed for real time execution, modularity, and, consequently, transparency. Real time execution allows the robot to reactively perform the task. Modularity allows the reuse of learned primitive actions and high level task in new situations, speeding up the process of learning in new scenarios. Transparency allows users to understand and interactively modify the learned model. Behavior trees are used to represent high level tasks by building on the relationship it has with decision trees. We demonstrate a human teaching our Fetch robot a household cleaning task.


Title: Active Multi-Contact Continuous Tactile Exploration with Gaussian Process Differential Entropy
Abstract: In the present work, we propose an active tactile exploration framework to obtain a surface model of an unknown object utilizing multiple contacts simultaneously. To incorporate these multiple contacts, the exploration strategy is based on the differential entropy of the underlying Gaussian process implicit surface model, which formalizes the exploration with multiple contacts within an information theoretic context and additionally allows for nonmyopic multi-step planning. In contrast to many previous approaches, the robot continuously slides along the surface with its end-effectors to gather the tactile stimuli, instead of touching it at discrete locations. This is realized by closely integrating the surface model into the compliant controller framework. Furthermore, we extend our recently proposed sliding based tactile exploration approach to handle non-convex objects. In the experiments, it is shown that multiple contacts simultaneously leads to a more efficient exploration of complex, non-convex objects, not only in terms of time, but also with respect to the total moved distance of all end-effectors. Finally, we demonstrate our methodology with a real PR2 robot that explores an object with both of its arms.


Title: Learning Quickly to Plan Quickly Using Modular Meta-Learning
Abstract: Multi-object manipulation problems in continuous state and action spaces can be solved by planners that search over sampled values for the continuous parameters of operators. The efficiency of these planners depends critically on the effectiveness of the samplers used, but effective sampling in turn depends on details of the robot, environment, and task. Our strategy is to learn functions called speciatizers that generate values for continuous operator parameters, given a state description and values for the discrete parameters. Rather than trying to learn a single specializer for each operator from large amounts of data on a single task, we take a modular meta-learning approach. We train on multiple tasks and learn a variety of specializers that, on a new task, can be quickly adapted using relatively little data - thus, our system learns quickly to plan quickly using these specializers. We validate our approach experimentally in simulated 3D pick-and-place tasks with continuous state and action spaces. Visit http://tinyurl.com/chitnis-icra-19 for a supplementary video.


Title: Deep Multi-Sensory Object Category Recognition Using Interactive Behavioral Exploration
Abstract: When identifying an object and its properties, humans use features from multiple sensory modalities produced when manipulating the object. Motivated by this cognitive process, we propose a deep learning methodology for object category recognition which uses visual, auditory, and haptic sensory data coupled with exploratory behaviors (e.g., grasping, lifting, pushing, etc.). In our method, as the robot performs an action on an object, it uses a Tensor-Train Gated Recurrent Unit network to process its visual data, and Convolutional Neural Networks to process haptic and auditory data. We propose a novel strategy to train a single neural network that inputs video, audio and haptic data, and demonstrate that its performance is better than separate neural networks for each sensory modality. The proposed method was evaluated on a dataset in which the robot explored 100 different objects, each belonging to one of 20 categories. While the visual information was the dominant modality for most categories, adding the additional haptic and auditory networks further improves the robot's category recognition accuracy. For some of the behaviors, our approach outperforms the previous published baseline for the dataset which used handcrafted features for each modality. We also show that a robot does not need the sensory data from the entire interaction, but instead can make a good prediction early on during behavior execution.


Title: Autonomous Latching System for Robotic Boats
Abstract: Autonomous robotic boats are devised to transport people and goods similar to self-driving cars. One of the attractive features specially applied in water environment is to dynamically link and join multiple boats into one unit in order to form floating infrastructure such as bridges, markets or concert stages, as well as autonomously self-detach to perform individual tasks.In this paper we present a novel latching system that enables robotic boats to create dynamic united floating infrastructure while overcoming water disturbances. The proposed latching mechanism is based on the spherical joint (ball and socket) that allows rotation and free movements in two planes at the same time. In this configuration, the latching system is capable to securely and efficiently assemble/disassemble floating structures. The vision-based robot controller guides the self-driving robotic boats to latch with high accuracy in the millimeter range. Moreover, in case the robotic boat fails to latch due to harsh weather, the autonomous latching system is capable to recompute and reposition to latch successfully. We present experimental results from latching and docking in indoor environments. Also, we present results in outdoor environments from latching a couple of robotic boats in open water with calm and turbulent currents.


Title: Incorporating End-to-End Speech Recognition Models for Sentiment Analysis
Abstract: Previous work on emotion recognition demonstrated a synergistic effect of combining several modalities such as auditory, visual, and transcribed text to estimate the affective state of a speaker. Among these, the linguistic modality is crucial for the evaluation of an expressed emotion. However, manually transcribed spoken text cannot be given as input to a system practically. We argue that using ground-truth transcriptions during training and evaluation phases leads to a significant discrepancy in performance compared to real-world conditions, as the spoken text has to be recognized on the fly and can contain speech recognition mistakes. In this paper, we propose a method of integrating an automatic speech recognition (ASR) output with a character-level recurrent neural network for sentiment recognition. In addition, we conduct several experiments investigating sentiment recognition for human-robot interaction in a noise-realistic scenario which is challenging for the ASR systems. We quantify the improvement compared to using only the acoustic modality in sentiment recognition. We demonstrate the effectiveness of this approach on the Multimodal Corpus of Sentiment Intensity (MOSI) by achieving 73,6% accuracy in a binary sentiment classification task, exceeding previously reported results that use only acoustic input. In addition, we set a new state-of-the-art performance on the MOSI dataset (80.4% accuracy, 2% absolute improvement).


Title: Decentralization of Multiagent Policies by Learning What to Communicate
Abstract: Effective communication is required for teams of robots to solve sophisticated collaborative tasks. In practice it is typical for both the encoding and semantics of communication to be manually defined by an expert; this is true regardless of whether the behaviors themselves are bespoke, optimization based, or learned. We present an agent architecture and training methodology using neural networks to learn task-oriented communication semantics based on the example of a communication-unaware expert policy. A perimeter defense game illustrates the system's ability to handle dynamically changing numbers of agents and its graceful degradation in performance as communication constraints are tightened or the expert's observability assumptions are broken.


Title: Learning Recursive Bayesian Nonparametric Modeling of Moving Targets via Mobile Decentralized Sensors
Abstract: Bayesian nonparametric models, such as the Dirichlet Process Gaussian Process (DPGP), have been shown very effective at learning models of dynamic targets exclusively from data. Previous work on batch DPGP learning and inference, however, ceases to be efficient in multi-sensor applications that require decentralized measurements to be obtained sequentially over time. Batch processing, in this case, leads to redundant computations that may hinder online applicability. This paper develops a recursive approach for DPGP learning and inference in which a novel Dirichlet Process prior based on Wasserstein metric is used for measuring the similarity between multiple Gaussian Processes (GPs). Combined with the GP recursive fusion law, the proposed recursive DPGP fusion approach enables efficient online data fusion. The problem of active sensing for recursive DPGP learning and inference is also investigated by uncertainty reduction via expected mutual information. Simulation and experimental results show that the proposed approach successfully learns the models of moving targets and outperforms existing benchmark methods.


Title: UAV/UGV Autonomous Cooperation: UAV assists UGV to climb a cliff by attaching a tether
Abstract: This paper proposes a novel cooperative system for an Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV) and an Unmanned Ground Vehicle (UGV) which utilizes the UAV not only as a flying sensor but also as a tether attachment device. Two robots are connected with a tether, allowing the UAV to anchor the tether to a structure located at the top of a steep terrain, impossible to reach for UGVs. Thus, enhancing the poor traversability of the UGV by not only providing a wider range of scanning and mapping from the air, but also by allowing the UGV to climb steep terrains with the winding of the tether. In addition, we present an autonomous framework for the collaborative navigation and tether attachment in an unknown environment. The UAV employs visual inertial navigation with 3D voxel mapping and obstacle avoidance planning. The UGV makes use of the voxel map and generates an elevation map to execute path planning based on a traversability analysis. Furthermore, we compared the pros and cons of possible methods for the tether anchoring from multiple points of view. To increase the probability of successful anchoring, we evaluated the anchoring strategy with an experiment. Finally, the feasibility and capability of our proposed system were demonstrated by an autonomous mission experiment in the field with an obstacle and a cliff.


Title: Distributed Motion Tomography for Reconstruction of Flow Fields*
Abstract: This paper considers a group of mobile sensing agents in a flow field and presents a distributed method for motion tomography (MT) that estimates the underlying flow field. MT formulates an underdetermined nonlinear system of equations as an inverse problem. Inspired by the Kaczmarz method which is an optimization approach for solving a linear system of equations, our previous work developed a nonlinear Kaczmarz method that solves the system of equations associated with MT. Considering distributed multi-agent systems for MT, this paper extends the nonlinear Kaczmarz method into a distributed framework. The distributed nonlinear Kaczmarz method is developed by formulating a constrained consensus problem that belongs to a class of projected consensus algorithms. To study the convergence and consensus for the method, its linear case is analyzed first and then its nonlinear case is discussed. The nonlinear case of the method is further validated through simulations by estimating a gyre flow field using mobile sensor networks with different numbers of neighboring agents. Resulting estimated flow fields are compared with a flow field estimated by its centralized counterpart.


Title: Lidar Measurement Bias Estimation via Return Waveform Modelling in a Context of 3D Mapping
Abstract: In a context of 3D mapping, it is very important to obtain accurate measurements from sensors. In particular, Light Detection And Ranging (LIDAR) measurements are typically treated as a zero-mean Gaussian distribution. We show that this assumption leads to predictable localisation drifts, especially when a bias related to measuring obstacles with high incidence angles is not taken into consideration. Moreover, we present a way to physically understand and model this bias, which generalizes to multiple sensors. Using an experimental setup, we measured the bias of the Sick LMS151, Velodyne HDL-32E, and Robosense RS-LiDAR-16 as a function of depth and incidence angle, and showed that the bias can reach 20 cm for high incidence angles. We then used our model to remove the bias from the measurements, leading to more accurate maps and a reduced localisation drift.


Title: An Extrinsic Calibration Tool for Radar, Camera and Lidar
Abstract: We present a novel open-source tool for extrinsic calibration of radar, camera and lidar. Unlike currently available offerings, our tool facilitates joint extrinsic calibration of all three sensing modalities on multiple measurements. Furthermore, our calibration target design extends existing work to obtain simultaneous measurements for all these modalities. We study how various factors of the calibration procedure affect the outcome on real multi-modal measurements of the target. Three different configurations of the optimization criterion are considered, namely using error terms for a minimal amount of sensor pairs, or using terms for all sensor pairs with additional loop closure constraints, or by adding terms for structure estimation in a probabilistic model. The experiments further evaluate how the number of calibration boards affect calibration performance, and robustness against different levels of zero mean Gaussian noise. Our results show that all configurations achieve good results for lidar to camera errors and that fully connected pose estimation shows the best performance for lidar to radar errors when more than five board locations are used.


Title: Low-latency Visual SLAM with Appearance-Enhanced Local Map Building
Abstract: A local map module is often implemented in modern VO/VSLAM systems to improve data association and pose estimation. Conventionally, the local map contents are determined by co-visibility. While co-visibility is cheap to establish, it utilizes the relatively-weak temporal prior (i.e. seen before, likely to be seen now), therefore admitting more features into the local map than necessary. This paper describes an enhancement to co-visibility local map building by incorporating a strong appearance prior, which leads to a more compact local map and latency reduction in downstream data association. The appearance prior collected from the current image influences the local map contents: only the map features visually similar to the current measurements are potentially useful for data association. To that end, mapped features are indexed and queried with Multi-index Hashing (MIH). An online hash table selection algorithm is developed to further reduce the query overhead of MIH and the local map size. The proposed appearance-based local map building method is integrated into a state-of-the-art VO/VSLAM system. When evaluated on two public benchmarks, the size of the local map, as well as the latency of real-time pose tracking in VO/VSLAM are significantly reduced. Meanwhile, the VO/VSLAM mean performance is preserved or improves.


Title: Generating Adversarial Driving Scenarios in High-Fidelity Simulators
Abstract: In recent years self-driving vehicles have become more commonplace on public roads, with the promise of bringing safety and efficiency to modern transportation systems. Increasing the reliability of these vehicles on the road requires an extensive suite of software tests, ideally performed on high-fidelity simulators, where multiple vehicles and pedestrians interact with the self-driving vehicle. It is therefore of critical importance to ensure that self-driving software is assessed against a wide range of challenging simulated driving scenarios. The state of the art in driving scenario generation, as adopted by some of the front-runners of the self-driving car industry, still relies on human input [1]. In this paper we propose to automate the process using Bayesian optimization to generate adversarial self-driving scenarios that expose poorly-engineered or poorly-trained self-driving policies, and increase the risk of collision with simulated pedestrians and vehicles. We show that by incorporating the generated scenarios into the training set of the self-driving policy, and by fine-tuning the policy using vision-based imitation learning we obtain safer self-driving behavior.


Title: Data-Driven Contact Clustering for Robot Simulation
Abstract: We propose a novel data-driven learning-based contact clustering (i.e., of contact points and contact normals) framework for rigid-body robot simulation, with its accuracy established/verified by real experimental data. We first construct an experimental robotic setup with force/torque (F/T) sensors to collect real contact motion/force data. We then design a multilayer perceptron (MLP) network for the contact clustering based on the full motion and force/torque information of the contacts. We also adopt the constraint-based optimization contact solver to facilitate the learning of our MLP network during the training. Our proposed data-driven/learning-based contact clustering framework is then verified against the experimental setup, compared with other techniques/simulators and shown to significantly (or meaningfully) enhance the accuracy of contact simulation as compared to them.


Title: Dual Refinement Network for Single-Shot Object Detection
Abstract: Object detection methods fall into two categories, i.e., two-stage and single-stage detectors. The former is characterized by high detection accuracy while the latter usually has a considerable inference speed. Hence, it is imperative to fuse their merits for a better accuracy vs. speed trade-off. To this end, we propose a dual refinement network (DRN) to boost the performance of the single-stage detector. Inheriting from the advantages of two-stage approaches (i.e., two-step regression and accurate features for detection), anchor refinement and feature offset refinement are conducted in a novel anchor-offset detection, where the detection head is comprised of deformable convolutions. Moreover, to leverage contextual information for describing objects, we design a multi-deformable head, in which multiple detection paths with different receptive field sizes devote themselves to detecting objects. Extensive experiments on PASCAL VOC and ImageNet VID datasets are conducted, and we achieve a state-of-the-art detection performance in terms of both accuracy and inference speed.


Title: Customizing Object Detectors for Indoor Robots
Abstract: Object detection models based on convolutional neural networks (CNNs) demonstrate impressive performance when trained on large-scale labeled datasets. While a generic object detector trained on such a dataset performs adequately in applications where the input data is similar to user photographs, the detector performs poorly on small objects, particularly ones with limited training data or imaged from uncommon viewpoints. Also, a specific room will have many objects that are missed by standard object detectors, frustrating a robot that continually operates in the same indoor environment.This paper describes a system for rapidly creating customized object detectors. Data is collected from a quadcopter that is teleoperated with an interactive interface. Once an object is selected, the quadcopter autonomously photographs the object from multiple viewpoints to collect data to train DUNet (Dense Upscaled Network), our proposed model for learning customized object detectors from scratch given limited data. Our experiments compare the performance of learning models from scratch with DUNet vs. fine tuning existing state of the art object detectors, both on our indoor robotics domain and on standard datasets.


Title: CHiMP: A Contact based Hilbert Map Planner
Abstract: This work presents a new contact-based 3D path planning approach for manipulators using robot skin. We make use of the Stochastic Functional Gradient Path Planner, extending it to the 3D case, and assess its usefulness in combination with multi-modal robot skin. Our proposed algorithm is verified on a 6 DOF robot arm that has been covered with multi-modal robot skin. The experimental platform is combined with a skin based compliant controller, making the robot inherently reactive. We implement different state-of-the-art planners within our contact-based robot system to compare their performance under the same conditions. In this way, all the planners use the same skin compliant control during evaluation. Furthermore, we extend the stochastic planner with tactile-based explorative behavior to improve its performance, especially for unknown environments. We show that CHiMP is able to outperform state of the art algorithms when working with skin-based sparse contact data.


Title: Hydraulically-actuated compliant revolute joint for medical robotic systems based on multimaterial additive manufacturing
Abstract: In this paper, an active compliant revolute joint actuated by hydraulic energy is developed. The joint is made of polymer for integration in medical robotic systems, even in a challenging environment such as Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI). The use of multimaterial additive manufacturing allows us to develop two original aspects. First, a new seal design is proposed to build miniature hydraulic cylinders embedded in the active joint, with low level of friction. Second, a rack-and-pinion mechanism is being integrated to a compliant revolute joint to obtain a high level of compactness. Design and experimental assessment of the hydraulic cylinder and the compliant joint with embedded rack-and-pinion are presented, as well as an illustration in the context of needle manipulation with passive teleoperation.


Title: Model-Based On-line Estimation of Time-Varying Nonlinear Joint Stiffness on an e-Series Universal Robots Manipulator
Abstract: Flexibility commonly exists in the joints of many industrial robots due to the elasticity of the lightweight strain-wave type transmissions being used. This leads to a dynamic time-varying displacement between the position of the drive actuator and that of the driven link. Furthermore, the joint flexibility changes with time due to the material slowly being worn off at the gear meshing. Knowing the stiffness of the robot joints is of great value, e.g. in the design of new model-based feedforward and feedback controllers, and for predictive maintenance in the case of gearing unit failure. In this paper, we address on-line estimation of robot joint stiffness using a recursive least squares strategy based on a parametric model taking into account the elastic torques' nonlinear dependency on transmission deformation. Robustness is achieved in the presence of measurement noise and in poor excitation conditions. The method can be easily extended to general classes of serial-link multi-degree-of-freedom robots. The estimation technique uses only feedback signals that are readily available on Universal Robots' e-Series manipulators. Experiments on the new UR5e manipulator demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed method.


Title: Trajectory Planning for a Tractor with Multiple Trailers in Extremely Narrow Environments: A Unified Approach*
Abstract: Trajectory planning for a tractor-trailer vehicle is challenging because the vehicle kinematics consists of underactuated and nonholonomic constraints that are highly coupled. Prevalent sampling-based or search-based planners suitable for rigid-body vehicles are not capable of handling the tractor-trailer vehicle cases. This work aims to deal with generic n-trailer cases in the tiny environments. To this end, an optimal control problem is formulated, which is beneficial in being accurate, straightforward, and unified. An adaptively homotopic warm-starting approach is proposed to facilitate the numerical solution process of the formulated optimal control problem. Compared with the existing sequential warm starting strategies, our proposal can adaptively define the subproblems with the purpose of making the gaps between adjacent subproblems “pleasant” for the solver. Unification and efficiency of the proposed adaptively homotopic warm-starting approach have been investigated in several extremely tiny scenarios. Our planner finds solutions that other existing planners cannot. Online planning opportunities are briefly discussed as well.


Title: Using Local Experiences for Global Motion Planning
Abstract: Sampling-based planners are effective in many real-world applications such as robotics manipulation, navigation, and even protein modeling. However, it is often challenging to generate a collision-free path in environments where key areas are hard to sample. In the absence of any prior information, sampling-based planners are forced to explore uniformly or heuristically, which can lead to degraded performance. One way to improve performance is to use prior knowledge of environments to adapt the sampling strategy to the problem at hand. In this work, we decompose the workspace into local primitives, memorizing local experiences by these primitives in the form of local samplers, and store them in a database. We synthesize an efficient global sampler by retrieving local experiences relevant to the given situation. Our method transfers knowledge effectively between diverse environments that share local primitives and speeds up the performance dramatically. Our results show, in terms of solution time, an improvement of multiple orders of magnitude in two traditionally challenging high-dimensional problems compared to state-of-the-art approaches.


Title: DMP Based Trajectory Tracking for a Nonholonomic Mobile Robot With Automatic Goal Adaptation and Obstacle Avoidance
Abstract: Dynamic Movement Primitive (DMP) which is popular for motion planning of a robot manipulator, has been adapted for a nonholonomic mobile robot to track the desired trajectory. DMP is a simple damped spring model with a forcing function, which learns the trajectory. The damped spring model attracts the robot towards the goal position, and the forcing function forces the robot to follow the given trajectory. Two Radial Basis Function Networks (RBFNs) have been used to learn the forcing function associated with the DMP model. Weight update laws are derived using the gradient descent approach to train the RBFNs. Fuzzy logic based steering angle dynamics is proposed to handle the asymmetric nature of an obstacle. The proposed scheme is capable enough to generate a smooth trajectory in the presence of an obstacle even when start and goal positions are altered, without losing the spatial information embedded while training. The convergence of the robot goal position has been shown using Lyapunov stability theory-based analysis. The approach has been extended to multiple static and dynamic obstacles for the successful convergence of the robot at the goal position. Both simulation and experimental results are provided to confirm the efficacy of the proposed scheme.


Title: Predicting Vehicle Behaviors Over An Extended Horizon Using Behavior Interaction Network
Abstract: Anticipating possible behaviors of traffic participants is an essential capability of autonomous vehicles. Many behavior detection and maneuver recognition methods only have a very limited prediction horizon that leaves inadequate time and space for planning. To avoid unsatisfactory reactive decisions, it is essential to count long-term future rewards in planning, which requires extending the prediction horizon. In this paper, we uncover that clues to vehicle behaviors over an extended horizon can be found in vehicle interaction, which makes it possible to anticipate the likelihood of a certain behavior, even in the absence of any clear maneuver pattern. We adopt a recurrent neural network (RNN) for observation encoding, and based on that, we propose a novel vehicle behavior interaction network (VBIN) to capture the vehicle interaction from the hidden states and connection feature of each interaction pair. The output of our method is a probabilistic likelihood of multiple behavior classes, which matches the multimodal and uncertain nature of the distant future. A systematic comparison of our method against two state-of-the-art methods and another two baseline methods on a publicly available real highway dataset is provided, showing that our method has superior accuracy and advanced capability for interaction modeling.


Title: Multimodal Spatio-Temporal Information in End-to-End Networks for Automotive Steering Prediction
Abstract: We study the end-to-end steering problem using visual input data from an onboard vehicle camera. An empirical comparison between spatial, spatio-temporal and multimodal models is performed assessing each concept's performance from two points of evaluation. First, how close the model is in predicting and imitating a real-life driver's behavior, second, the smoothness of the predicted steering command. The latter is a newly proposed metric. Building on our results, we propose a new recurrent multimodal model. The suggested model has been tested on a custom dataset recorded by BMW, as well as the public dataset provided by Udacity. Results show that it outperforms previously released scores. Further, a steering correction concept from off-lane driving through the inclusion of correction frames is presented. We show that our suggestion leads to promising results empirically.


Title: Generation of Synchronized Configuration Space Trajectories of Multi-Robot Systems
Abstract: We pose the problem of path-constrained trajectory generation for the synchronous motion of multi-robot systems as a non-linear optimization problem. Our method determines appropriate parametric representation for the configuration variables, generates an approximate solution as a starting point for the optimization method, and uses successive refinement techniques to solve the problem in a computationally efficient manner. We have demonstrated the effectiveness of the proposed method on challenging simulation and physical experiments with high degrees of freedom robotic systems.


Title: Visual Guidance and Automatic Control for Robotic Personalized Stent Graft Manufacturing
Abstract: Personalized stent graft is designed to treat Abdominal Aortic Aneurysms (AAA). Due to the individual difference in arterial structures, stent graft has to be custom made for each AAA patient. Robotic platforms for autonomous personalized stent graft manufacturing have been proposed in recently which rely upon stereo vision systems for coordinating multiple robots for fabricating customized stent grafts. This paper proposes a novel hybrid vision system for real-time visual-sevoing for personalized stent-graft manufacturing. To coordinate the robotic arms, this system is based on projecting a dynamic stereo microscope coordinate system onto a static wide angle view stereo webcam coordinate system. The multiple stereo camera configuration enables accurate localization of the needle in 3D during the sewing process. The scale-invariant feature transform (SIFT) method and color filtering are implemented for stereo matching and feature identifications for object localization. To maintain the clear view of the sewing process, a visual-servoing system is developed for guiding the stereo microscopes for tracking the needle movements. The deep deterministic policy gradient (DDPG) reinforcement learning algorithm is developed for real-time intelligent robotic control. Experimental results have shown that the robotic arm can learn to reach the desired targets autonomously.


Title: Multi-View Picking: Next-best-view Reaching for Improved Grasping in Clutter
Abstract: Camera viewpoint selection is an important aspect of visual grasp detection, especially in clutter where many occlusions are present. Where other approaches use a static camera position or fixed data collection routines, our Multi-View Picking (MVP) controller uses an active perception approach to choose informative viewpoints based directly on a distribution of grasp pose estimates in real time, reducing uncertainty in the grasp poses caused by clutter and occlusions. In trials of grasping 20 objects from clutter, our MVP controller achieves 80% grasp success, outperforming a single-viewpoint grasp detector by 12%. We also show that our approach is both more accurate and more efficient than approaches which consider multiple fixed viewpoints. Code is available at https://github.com/dougsm/mvp_grasp.


Title: A Multi-Sensor Next-Best-View Framework for Geometric Model-Based Robotics Applications
Abstract: Geometric models are crucial for many robotics applications. Current robotic 3D reconstruction systems only focus on specific reconstruction goals which make them hard to adapt to different tasks. In this paper we present a next-best-view framework which allows robots to construct a geometric model incrementally through consecutive sensing actions. Instead of limiting the type and total number of sensors, in each sensing step we evaluate actions from all available sensors and pick the best to execute. Our framework is more comprehensive since the model building process can be designed to best accomplish different tasks. The system has been demonstrated in two experiments on 3D reconstruction and weld seam inspection, yielding promising results.


Title: Tree Search Techniques for Minimizing Detectability and Maximizing Visibility
Abstract: We introduce and study the problem of planning a trajectory for an agent to carry out a reconnaissance mission while avoiding being detected by an adversarial guard. This introduces a multi-objective version of classical visibility-based target search and pursuit-evasion problem. In our formulation, the agent receives a positive reward for increasing its visibility (by exploring new regions) and a negative penalty every time it is detected by the guard. The objective is to find a finite-horizon path for the agent that balances the trade off between maximizing visibility and minimizing detectability.We model this problem as a discrete, sequential, two-player, zero-sum game. We use two types of game tree search algorithms to solve this problem: minimax search tree and Monte-Carlo search tree. Both search trees can yield the optimal policy but may require possibly exponential computational time and space. We propose several pruning techniques to reduce the computational cost while still preserving optimality guarantees. Simulation results show that the proposed strategy prunes approximately three orders of magnitude nodes as compared to the brute-force strategy. We also find that the Monte-Carlo search tree saves approximately one order of computational time as compared to the minimax search tree.


Title: User-Guided Offline Synthesis of Robot Arm Motion from 6-DoF Paths
Abstract: We present an offline method to generate smooth, feasible motion for robot arms such that end-effector pose goals of a 6-DoF path are matched within acceptable limits specified by the user. Our approach aims to accurately match the position and orientation goals of the given path, and allows deviation from these goals if there is danger of self-collisions, joint-space discontinuities or kinematic singularities. Our method generates multiple candidate trajectories, and selects the best by incorporating sparse user input that specifies what kinds of deviations are acceptable. We apply our method to a range of challenging paths and show that our method generates solutions that achieve smooth, feasible motions while closely approximating the given pose goals and adhering to user specifications.


Title: Two-Stage Transfer Learning for Heterogeneous Robot Detection and 3D Joint Position Estimation in a 2D Camera Image Using CNN
Abstract: Collaborative robots are becoming more common on factory floors as well as regular environments, however, their safety still is not a fully solved issue. Collision detection does not always perform as expected and collision avoidance is still an active research area. Collision avoidance works well for fixed robot-camera setups, however, if they are shifted around, Eye-to-Hand calibration becomes invalid making it difficult to accurately run many of the existing collision avoidance algorithms. We approach the problem by presenting a stand-alone system capable of detecting the robot and estimating its position, including individual joints, by using a simple 2D colour image as an input, where no Eye-to-Hand calibration is needed. As an extension of previous work, a two-stage transfer learning approach is used to re-train a multi-objective convolutional neural network (CNN) to allow it to be used with heterogeneous robot arms. Our method is capable of detecting the robot in real-time and new robot types can be added by having significantly smaller training datasets compared to the requirements of a fully trained network. We present data collection approach, the structure of the multi-objective CNN, the two-stage transfer learning training and test results by using real robots from Universal Robots, Kuka, and Franka Emika. Eventually, we analyse possible application areas of our method together with the possible improvements.


Title: Online Multilayered Motion Planning with Dynamic Constraints for Autonomous Underwater Vehicles
Abstract: Underwater robots are subject to complex hydro-dynamic forces. These forces define how the vehicle moves, so it is important to consider them when planning trajectories. However, performing motion planning considering the dynamics on the robot's onboard computer is challenging due to the limited computational resources available. In this paper an efficient motion planning framework for autonomous underwater vehicles (AUVs) is presented. By introducing a loosely coupled multilayered planning design, our framework is able to generate dynamically feasible trajectories while keeping the planning time low enough for online planning. First, a fast path planner operating in a lower-dimensional projected space computes a lead path from the start to the goal configuration. Then, the lead path is used to bias the sampling of a second motion planner, which takes into account all the dynamic constraints. Furthermore, we propose a strategy for online planning that saves computational resources by generating the final trajectory only up to a finite horizon. By using the finite horizon strategy together with the multilayered approach, the sampling of the second planner focuses on regions where good quality solutions are more likely to be found, significantly reducing the planning time. To provide strong safety guarantees our framework also incorporates the conservative approximations of inevitable collision states (icss). finally, we present simulations and experiments using a real underwater robot to demonstrate the capabilities of our framework.


Title: Making Sense of Vision and Touch: Self-Supervised Learning of Multimodal Representations for Contact-Rich Tasks
Abstract: Contact-rich manipulation tasks in unstructured environments often require both haptic and visual feedback. However, it is non-trivial to manually design a robot controller that combines modalities with very different characteristics. While deep reinforcement learning has shown success in learning control policies for high-dimensional inputs, these algorithms are generally intractable to deploy on real robots due to sample complexity. We use self-supervision to learn a compact and multimodal representation of our sensory inputs, which can then be used to improve the sample efficiency of our policy learning. We evaluate our method on a peg insertion task, generalizing over different geometry, configurations, and clearances, while being robust to external perturbations. We present results in simulation and on a real robot.


Title: Towards Robust Product Packing with a Minimalistic End-Effector
Abstract: Advances in sensor technologies, object detection algorithms, planning frameworks and hardware designs have motivated the deployment of robots in warehouse automation. A variety of such applications, like order fulfillment or packing tasks, require picking objects from unstructured piles and carefully arranging them in bins or containers. Desirable solutions need to be low-cost, easily deployable and controllable, making minimalistic hardware choices desirable. The challenge in designing an effective solution to this problem relates to appropriately integrating multiple components, so as to achieve a robust pipeline that minimizes failure conditions. The current work proposes a complete pipeline for solving such packing tasks, given access only to RGB-D data and a single robot arm with a vacuum-based end-effector, which is also used as a pushing finger. To achieve the desired level of robustness, three key manipulation primitives are identified, which take advantage of the environment and simple operations to successfully pack multiple cubic objects. The overall approach is demonstrated to be robust to execution and perception errors. The impact of each manipulation primitive is evaluated by considering different versions of the proposed pipeline, which incrementally introduce reasoning about object poses and corrective manipulation actions.


Title: Soft Robotic Glove with Integrated Sensing for Intuitive Grasping Assistance Post Spinal Cord Injury
Abstract: This paper presents a fully-integrated soft robotic glove with multi-articular textile actuators, custom soft sensors, and an intuitive state machine intent detection controller. We demonstrate that the pressurized actuators can generate motion and force comparable to natural human fingers through bench-top testing. We apply textile-elastomer capacitive sensors to the glove to track finger flexion via strain and detect contact with objects via force. Intuitive user control is achieved via a state machine controller based on signals from the integrated sensors to detect relative changes in hand-object interactions. Results from an initial evaluation with 3 participants with spinal cord injury (SCI), of varied injury levels and years since injury, wearing and controlling the glove show an average of 87% improvement in grasping force, and improvements in functional assessments for participants with recent injuries. A significant variation in response suggests further investigation is required to understand the adaptation needed across different injury levels and durations since injury. Additionally, we evaluate the controller and find an average of 3 seconds from user initiations to completed grasps, and 10% inadvertent grasp triggers and no false releases when objects are held.


Title: Shape Sensing of Variable Stiffness Soft Robots using Electrical Impedance Tomography
Abstract: Soft robotic systems offer benefits over traditional rigid systems through reduced contact trauma with soft tissues and by enabling access through tortuous paths in minimally invasive surgery. However, the inherent deformability of soft robots places both a greater onus on accurate modelling of their shape, and greater challenges in realising intraoperative shape sensing. Herein we present a proprioceptive (self-sensing) soft actuator, with an electrically conductive working fluid. Electrical impedance measurements from up to six electrodes enabled tomographic reconstructions using Electrical Impedance Tomography (EIT). A new Frequency Division Multiplexed (FDM) EIT system was developed capable of measurements of 66 dB SNR with 20 ms temporal resolution. The concept was examined in two two-degree-of-freedom designs: a hydraulic hinged actuator and a pneumatic finger actuator with hydraulic beams. Both cases demonstrated that impedance measurements could be used to infer shape changes, and EIT images reconstructed during actuation showed distinct patterns with respect to each degree of freedom (DOF). Whilst there was some mechanical hysteresis observed, the repeatability of the measurements and resultant images was high. The results show the potential of FDM-EIT as a low-cost, low profile shape sensor in soft robots.


Title: Distributed Multi-Robot Formation Splitting and Merging in Dynamic Environments
Abstract: This paper presents a distributed method for splitting and merging of multi-robot formations in dynamic environments with static and moving obstacles. Splitting and merging actions rely on distributed consensus and can be performed to avoid obstacles. Our method accounts for the limited communication range and visibility radius of the robots and relies on the communication of obstacle-free convex regions and the computation of an intersection graph. In addition, our method is able to detect and recover from (permanent and temporary) communication and motion faults. Finally, we demonstrate the applicability and scalability of the proposed method in simulations with up to sixteen quadrotors and real-world experiments with a team of four quadrotors.


Title: Multi-Robot Region-of-Interest Reconstruction with Dec-MCTS
Abstract: We consider the problem of reconstructing regions of interest of a scene using multiple robot arms and RGB-D sensors. This problem is motivated by a variety of applications, such as precision agriculture and infrastructure inspection. A viewpoint evaluation function is presented that exploits predicted observations and the geometry of the scene. A recently proposed non-myopic planning algorithm, Decentralised Monte Carlo tree search, is used to coordinate the actions of the robot arms. Motion planning is performed over a navigation graph that considers the high-dimensional configuration space of the robot arms. Extensive simulated experiments are carried out using real sensor data and then validated on hardware with two robot arms. Our proposed targeted information gain planner is compared to state-of-the-art baselines and outperforms them in every measured metric. The robots quickly observe and accurately detect fruit in a trellis structure, demonstrating the viability of the approach for real-world applications.


Title: Bayesian Optimization of Soft Exosuits Using a Metabolic Estimator Stopping Process
Abstract: Recent human-in-the-loop (HIL) optimization studies using wearable devices have shown an improved average metabolic reduction by optimizing a small number of control parameters during short-duration walking experiments. However, the slow metabolic dynamics, high measurement noise, and experimental time constraints create challenges for increasing the number of control parameters to be optimized. Prior work applying gradient descent and Bayesian optimization to this problem have decoupled metabolic estimation and control parameter selection using fixed estimation intervals, which imposes a hard limit on the number of parameter evaluations possible in a given time budget. In this work, we take a different approach that couples estimation and parameter selection, allowing the algorithm to spend less time on refining the metabolic estimates for parameters that are unlikely to improve performance over the best observed values. Our approach uses a Kalman filter-based metabolic estimator to formulate an optimal stopping problem during the data acquisition step of standard Bayesian optimization. Performance was analyzed in numerical simulations and in pilot human subject testing with two subjects that involved optimizing six control parameters of a single-joint exosuit and four parameters of a multi-joint exosuit.


Title: Robust 3D Distributed Formation Control With Collision Avoidance And Application To Multirotor Aerial Vehicles
Abstract: We present a distributed control strategy for a team of agents to autonomously achieve a desired 3D formation. Our approach is based on local relative position measurements and can be applied to multirotor aerial vehicles. We assume that agents have a common sense of direction, which is used to align the z-axes of their local coordinate frames. However, this assumption is not crucial, and our approach is provably robust to misalignments in the local coordinate frames or measurement inaccuracies. In particular, agents can move along any direction that projects positively onto the desired direction of motion. This property is exploited to design a fully-distributed collision avoidance strategy. We validate the proposed approach experimentally and show that a team of quadrotors can achieve a desired 3D formation without collisions.


Title: Networked Operation of a UAV Using Gaussian Process-Based Delay Compensation and Model Predictive Control
Abstract: This study addresses an operation of unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs) in a network environment where there is time-varying network delay. The network delay entails undesirable effects on the stability of the UAV control system due to delayed state feedback and outdated control input. Although several networked control algorithms have been proposed to deal with the network delay, most existing studies have assumed that the plant dynamics is known and simple, or the network delay is constant. These assumptions are improper to multirotor-type UAVs because of their nonlinearity and time-sensitive characteristics. To deal with these problems, we propose a networked control system using model predictive control (MPC) designed under the consideration of multirotor characteristics. We also apply a Gaussian process (GP) to learn an unknown nonlinear model, which increases the accuracy of path planning and state estimation. Flight experiments show that the proposed algorithm successfully compensates the network delay and Gaussian process learning improves the UAV's path tracking performance.


Title: Improving Underwater Obstacle Detection using Semantic Image Segmentation
Abstract: This paper presents two novel approaches for improving image-based underwater obstacle detection by combining sparse stereo point clouds with monocular semantic image segmentation. Generating accurate image-based obstacle maps in cluttered underwater environments, such as coral reefs, are essential for robust robotic path planning and navigation. However, these maps can be challenged by factors including visibility, lighting and dynamic objects (e.g. fish) that may lead to falsely identified free space or dynamic objects which trajectory planners may react to undesirably. We propose combining feature-based stereo matching with learning-based segmentation to produce a more robust obstacle map. This approach considers direct binary learning of the presence or absence of underwater obstacles, as well as a multiclass learning approach to classify their distance (near, mid and far) in the scene. An enhancement to the binary map is also shown by including depth information from sparse stereo matching to produce 3D obstacle maps of the scene. The performance is evaluated using field data collected in cluttered, and at times, visually degraded coral reef environments. The results show improved image-wide obstacle detection, rejection of transient objects (such as fish), and range estimation compared to feature-based sparse and dense stereo point clouds alone.


Title: Comparing Physical and Simulated Performance of a Deterministic and a Bio-inspired Stochastic Foraging Strategy for Robot Swarms
Abstract: Designing resource-collection algorithms for relatively simple robots that are effective given the noise and uncertainty of the real world is a challenge in swarm robotics. This paper describes the performance of two algorithms for collective robot foraging: the stochastic central-place foraging algorithm (CPFA) and the distributed deterministic spiral algorithm (DDSA). With the CPFA, robots mimic the foraging behaviors of ants; they stochastically search for targets and share information to recruit other robots to locations where they detect multiple targets. With the DDSA, robots travel along pre-planned spiral paths; robots detect the nearest targets first and, in theory, guarantee eventual complete coverage of the arena with minimal overlap. We implemented both algorithms and compared their performance in a Gazebo simulation and in physical robots in a large outdoor arena. In a realistic Gazebo simulation, the DDSA outperforms the CPFA. However, in real-world experiments with obstacles, collisions, and errors, the movement patterns of robots implementing the DDSA become visually indistinguishable from the CPFA. The CPFA is less affected by noise and error, and it performs as well as, or better than, the DDSA. Physical experiments change our conclusion about which algorithm has the best performance, emphasizing the importance of systematically comparing the performance of swarm robotic algorithms in the real world.


Title: Long-Term Occupancy Grid Prediction Using Recurrent Neural Networks
Abstract: We tackle the long-term prediction of scene evolution in a complex downtown scenario for automated driving based on Lidar grid fusion and recurrent neural networks (RNNs). A bird's eye view of the scene, including occupancy and velocity, is fed as a sequence to a RNN which is trained to predict future occupancy. The nature of prediction allows generation of multiple hours of training data without the need of manual labeling. Thus, the training strategy and loss function are designed for long sequences of real-world data (unbalanced, continuously changing situations, false labels, etc.). The deep CNN architecture comprises convolutional long short-term memories (ConvLSTMs) to separate static from dynamic regions and to predict dynamic objects in future frames. Novel recurrent skip connections show the ability to predict small occluded objects, i.e. pedestrians, and occluded static regions. Spatio-temporal correlations between grid cells are exploited to predict multimodal future paths and interactions between objects. Experiments also quantity improvements to our previous network, a Monte Carlo approach, and literature.


Title: Improving the Performance of Auxiliary Null Space Tasks via Time Scaling-Based Relaxation of the Primary Task
Abstract: Kinematic redundancy enhances the dexterity and flexibility of robot manipulators. By exploiting the redundant degrees of freedom, auxiliary null space tasks can be carried out in addition to the primary task. Such auxiliary tasks are often formulated in terms of a performance or safety criterion that shall be minimized. If the optimization criterion, however, is defined in global terms, then it is directly affected by the primary task. As a consequence, the task achievement of the auxiliary task may be unnecessarily detrimented by the main task. In addition to modifying the primary task via constraint relaxation, a possible solution for improving the performance of the auxiliary task is to relax the primary task temporarily via time scaling. This gives the null space task more time for achieving its objective. In this paper, we propose several such time scaling schemes and verify their performance for a DLR/KUKA Lightweight Robot with one redundant degree of freedom. Finally, we extend the concept to multiple prioritized tasks and provide a simulation example.


Title: Multi-Task Sensorization of Soft Actuators Using Prior Knowledge
Abstract: The space of all possible deformations of soft robotic actuators is extremely large. It is impossible to explicitly measure each internal degree of freedom, regardless of the number and types of sensors. It is, however, possible to measure a smaller subset of task-relevant deformations using only a few well-placed sensors. But for a different task, the soft actuator's deformation behavior might differ significantly. Instead of finding a new sensor placement for the new task, which would result in a separate hand for every task, we propose a method that maintains the original sensors and uses prior knowledge about each task to extend the applicability of the existing sensorized actuators to new tasks. We demonstrate our approach by the example of a PneuFlex actuator of the RBO Hand 2. When sensorizing the actuator for a single task, the sensor model does not transfer well to other tasks. Using our multi-task method, we train new sensor models that use prior knowledge about the tasks. The new models improve measurement accuracy for the new tasks without having to change the sensor hardware.


Title: OpenRoACH: A Durable Open-Source Hexapedal Platform with Onboard Robot Operating System (ROS)
Abstract: OpenRoACH is a 15-cm 200-gram self-contained hexapedal robot with an onboard single-board computer. To our knowledge, it is the smallest legged robot with the capability of running the Robot Operating System (ROS) onboard. The robot is fully open sourced, uses accessible materials and off-the-shelf electronic components, can be fabricated with benchtop fast-prototyping machines such as a laser cutter and a 3D printer, and can be assembled by one person within two hours. Its sensory capacity has been tested with gyroscopes, accelerometers, Beacon sensors, color vision sensors, linescan sensors and cameras. It is low-cost within $150 including structure materials, motors, electronics, and a battery. The capabilities of OpenRoACH are demonstrated with multi-surface walking and running, 24-hour continuous walking burn-ins, carrying 200-gram dynamic payloads and 800-gram static payloads, and ROS control of steering based on camera feedback. Information and files related to mechanical design, fabrication, assembly, electronics, and control algorithms are all publicly available on https://wiki.eecs.berkeley.edu/biomimetics/Main/OpenRoACH.


Title: Sensorless Force Control of Automated Grinding/Deburring Using an Adjustable force regulation mechanism
Abstract: Controlling the contact force on workpieces has been a challenging task for industrial grinding/deburring operations. Its realization often requires a grinding spindle with a multi-axis force sensor and controller feedback. The spindle needs to frequently vary its position in order to maintain a constant contact force. The use of sensors and control is costly and introduces extra complexity for grinding tools. To improve the polishing quality of handling workpieces of irregular contours, this paper presents a novel force regulation mechanism (FRM) to be installed on grinding tools. Without using additional sensors and control, the FRM can passively produce an adjusTable NORMAL Contact force between the tooltip and workpiece of various geometry. the spindle does not have to move to regulate the contact force. together with a simple grinder which is much less expensive, this approach offers a more attractive solution in terms of cost and complexity. in this paper, the design concept and simulation results are presented and discussed. a prototype of a grinder with the proposed FRM is illustrated to demonstrate the effectiveness and accuracy of force regulation. this novel mechanism is expected to serve as a reliable alternative for industrial grinding/deburring operation.


Title: Constrained Feedback Control by Prioritized Multi-objective Optimization
Abstract: Prioritized multi-objective optimization has been widely used within the operational space inverse dynamics control framework. In this paper, we present a constrained prioritized multi-objective optimization-base control formulation that extends to impedance control, including the `simple' impedance controller, which does not require the dynamic model. The main contribution of this paper is the dynamic-model-free prioritized feedback control formulation which encompasses arbitrary number of priority levels and takes the saturation constraints on the control inputs rigorously into account. The utility of the proposed formulation is demonstrated by a combined inverse dynamics impedance controller used to simulate stable locomotion of a planar anthropometric biped robot.


Title: Towards Robot Interaction Autonomy: Explore, Identify, and Interact
Abstract: Nowadays, robots are expected to enter in various application scenarios and interact with unknown and dynamically changing environments. This highlights the need for creating autonomous robot behaviours to explore such environments, identify their characteristics and adapt, and build knowledge for future interactions. To respond to this need, in this paper we present a novel framework that integrates multiple components to achieve a context-aware and adaptive interaction between the robot and uncertain environments. The core of this framework is a novel self-tuning impedance controller that regulates robot quasi-static parameters, i.e., stiffness and damping, based on the robot sensory data and vision. The tuning of the parameters is achieved only in the direction(s) of interaction or movement, by distinguishing expected interactions from external disturbances. A vision module is developed to recognize the environmental characteristics and to associate them to the previously/newly identified interaction parameters, with the robot always being able to adapt to the new changes or unexpected situations. This enables a faster robot adaptability, starting from better initial interaction parameters. The framework is evaluated experimentally in an agricultural task, where the robot effectively interacts with various deformable environments.


Title: Personalized Online Learning of Whole-Body Motion Classes using Multiple Inertial Measurement Units
Abstract: Online action classification is an important field of research, enabling the particularly interesting application scenario of controlling wearable devices which actively support the user's motions. The majority of machine learning applications of real-world systems are based on pre-trained average-user models without any personalization. Our long-term goal is to provide a system that adapts to its user's personal behavior patterns on the fly and in real-time. Ideally, we want to initiate a continuous collaboration between the system and the user where both alternatively adjust to each other to maximize the system's utility. Such tasks are not feasible with static models. In this paper, we investigate the potential and benefits of personalized online learning in the task of online action classification. We record motion sequences of different subjects wearing the Xsens bodysuit, which incorporates multiple inertial measuring units, enabling a fine-grained discrimination of motions. On this basis, we first perform a feature selection, showing that only a few sensors are necessary to achieve a high classification performance. Subsequently, we compare the recognition capabilities of offline average user models against personalized models trained in an online way. Our experiments conclude that personalized models require only few data to outperform average user systems and are particularly valuable for applications with limited computational hardware which rely on the raw sensor inputs only.


Title: The H3D Dataset for Full-Surround 3D Multi-Object Detection and Tracking in Crowded Urban Scenes
Abstract: 3D multi-object detection and tracking are crucial for traffic scene understanding. However, the community pays less attention to these areas due to the lack of a standardized benchmark dataset to advance the field. Moreover, existing datasets (e.g., KITTI [1]) do not provide sufficient data and labels to tackle challenging scenes where highly interactive and occluded traffic participants are present. To address the issues, we present the Honda Research Institute 3D Dataset (H3D), a large-scale full-surround 3D multi-object detection and tracking dataset collected using a 3D LiDAR scanner. H3D comprises of 160 crowded and highly interactive traffic scenes with a total of 1 million labeled instances in 27,721 frames. With unique dataset size, rich annotations, and complex scenes, H3D is gathered to stimulate research on full-surround 3D multi-object detection and tracking. To effectively and efficiently annotate a large-scale 3D point cloud dataset, we propose a labeling methodology to speed up the overall annotation cycle. A standardized benchmark is created to evaluate full-surround 3D multi-object detection and tracking algorithms. 3D object detection and tracking algorithms are trained and tested on H3D. Finally, sources of errors are discussed for the development of future algorithms.


Title: Building a Winning Self-Driving Car in Six Months
Abstract: The SAE AutoDrive Challenge is a three-year competition to develop a Level 4 autonomous vehicle by 2020. The first set of challenges were held in April of 2018 in Yuma, Arizona. Our team (aUToronto/Zeus) placed first. In this paper, we describe Zeus' complete system architecture and specialized algorithms that enabled us to win. We show that it is possible to develop a vehicle with basic autonomy features in just six months relying on simple, robust algorithms. We do not make use of a prior map. Instead, we have developed a multi-sensor visual localization solution. All the algorithms in the paper run in real-time using CPUs only. We also highlight the closed-loop performance of the system in detail in several experiments.


Title: Online Vehicle Trajectory Prediction using Policy Anticipation Network and optimization-based Context Reasoning
Abstract: In this paper, we present an online two-level vehicle trajectory prediction framework for urban autonomous driving where there are complex contextual factors, such as lane geometries, road constructions, traffic regulations and moving agents. Our method combines high-level policy anticipation with low-level context reasoning. We leverage a long short-term memory (LSTM) network to anticipate the vehicle's driving policy (e.g., forward, yield, turn left, turn right, etc.) using its sequential history observations. The policy is then used to guide a low-level optimization-based context reasoning process. We show that it is essential to incorporate the prior policy anticipation due to the multimodal nature of the future trajectory. Moreover, contrary to existing regression-based trajectory prediction methods, our optimization-based reasoning process can cope with complex contextual factors. The final output of the two-level reasoning process is a continuous trajectory that automatically adapts to different traffic configurations and accurately predicts future vehicle motions. The performance of the proposed framework is analyzed and validated in an emerging autonomous driving simulation platform (CARLA).


Title: End to End Learning of a Multi-Layered Snn Based on R-Stdp for a Target Tracking Snake-Like Robot
Abstract: This paper introduces an end-to-end learning approach based on Reward-modulated Spike-Timing-Dependent Plasticity (R-STDP) for a multi-layered spiking neural network (SNN). As a case study, a snake-like robot is used as an agent to perform target tracking tasks on the basis of our proposed approach. Since the key of R-STDP is to use rewards to modulate synapse strengthens, we first propose a general way to propagate the reward back through a multi-layered SNN. Upon the proposed approach, we build up an SNN controller that drives a snake-like robot for performing target tracking tasks. We demonstrate the practicability and advantage of our approach in terms of lateral tracking accuracy by comparing it to other state-of-the-art learning algorithms for SNNs based on R-STDP.


Title: Egocentric Vision-based Future Vehicle Localization for Intelligent Driving Assistance Systems
Abstract: Predicting the future location of vehicles is essential for safety-critical applications such as advanced driver assistance systems (ADAS) and autonomous driving. This paper introduces a novel approach to simultaneously predict both the location and scale of target vehicles in the first-person (egocentric) view of an ego-vehicle. We present a multi-stream recurrent neural network (RNN) encoder-decoder model that separately captures both object location and scale and pixel-level observations for future vehicle localization. We show that incorporating dense optical flow improves prediction results significantly since it captures information about motion as well as appearance change. We also find that explicitly modeling future motion of the ego-vehicle improves the prediction accuracy, which could be especially beneficial in intelligent and automated vehicles that have motion planning capability. To evaluate the performance of our approach, we present a new dataset of first-person videos collected from a variety of scenarios at road intersections, which are particularly challenging moments for prediction because vehicle trajectories are diverse and dynamic. Code and dataset have been made available at: https://usa.honda-ri.com/hevi.


Title: Uncertainty-Aware Driver Trajectory Prediction at Urban Intersections
Abstract: Predicting the motion of a driver's vehicle is crucial for advanced driving systems, enabling detection of potential risks towards shared control between the driver and automation systems. In this paper, we propose a variational neural network approach that predicts future driver trajectory distributions for the vehicle based on multiple sensors. Our predictor generates both a conditional variational distribution of future trajectories, as well as a confidence estimate for different time horizons. Our approach allows us to handle inherently uncertain situations, and reason about information gain from each input, as well as combine our model with additional predictors, creating a mixture of experts. We show how to augment the variational predictor with a physics-based predictor, and based on their confidence estimations, improve overall system performance. The resulting combined model is aware of the uncertainty associated with its predictions, which can help the vehicle autonomy to make decisions with more confidence. The model is validated on real-world urban driving data collected in multiple locations. This validation demonstrates that our approach improves the prediction error of a physics-based model by 25% while successfully identifying the uncertain cases with 82% accuracy.


Title: Go with the Flow: Exploration and Mapping of Pedestrian Flow Patterns from Partial Observations
Abstract: Understanding how people are likely to behave in an environment is a key requirement for efficient and safe robot navigation. However, mobile platforms are subject to spatial and temporal constraints, meaning that only partial observations of human activities are typically available to a robot, while the activity patterns of people in a given environment may also change at different times. To address these issues we present as the main contribution an exploration strategy for acquiring models of pedestrian flows, which decides not only the locations to explore but also the times when to explore them. The approach is driven by the uncertainty from multiple Poisson processes built from past observations. The approach is evaluated using two long-term pedestrian datasets, comparing its performance against uninformed exploration strategies. The results show that when using the uncertainty in the exploration policy, model accuracy increases, enabling faster learning of human motion patterns.


Title: Memory Efficient Experience Replay for Streaming Learning
Abstract: In supervised machine learning, an agent is typically trained once and then deployed. While this works well for static settings, robots often operate in changing environments and must quickly learn new things from data streams. In this paradigm, known as streaming learning, a learner is trained online, in a single pass, from a data stream that cannot be assumed to be independent and identically distributed (iid). Streaming learning will cause conventional deep neural networks (DNNs) to fail for two reasons: 1) they need multiple passes through the entire dataset; and 2) non-iid data will cause catastrophic forgetting. An old fix to both of these issues is rehearsal. To learn a new example, rehearsal mixes it with previous examples, and then this mixture is used to update the DNN. Full rehearsal is slow and memory intensive because it stores all previously observed examples, and its effectiveness for preventing catastrophic forgetting has not been studied in modern DNNs. Here, we describe the ExStream algorithm for memory efficient rehearsal and compare it to alternatives. We find that full rehearsal can eliminate catastrophic forgetting in a variety of streaming learning settings, with ExStream performing well using far less memory and computation.


Title: RoboCSE: Robot Common Sense Embedding
Abstract: Autonomous service robots require computational frameworks that allow them to generalize knowledge to new situations in a manner that models uncertainty while scaling to real-world problem sizes. The Robot Common Sense Embedding (RoboCSE) showcases a class of computational frameworks, multi-relational embeddings, that have not been leveraged in robotics to model semantic knowledge. We validate RoboCSE on a realistic home environment simulator (AI2Thor) to measure how well it generalizes learned knowledge about object affordances, locations, and materials. Our experiments show that RoboCSE can perform prediction better than a baseline that uses pre-trained embeddings, such as Word2Vec, achieving statistically significant improvements while using orders of magnitude less memory than our Bayesian Logic Network baseline. In addition, we show that predictions made by RoboCSE are robust to significant reductions in data available for training as well as domain transfer to MatterPort3D, achieving statistically significant improvements over a baseline that memorizes training data.


Title: Neural Lander: Stable Drone Landing Control Using Learned Dynamics
Abstract: Precise near-ground trajectory control is difficult for multi-rotor drones, due to the complex aerodynamic effects caused by interactions between multi-rotor airflow and the environment. Conventional control methods often fail to properly account for these complex effects and fall short in accomplishing smooth landing. In this paper, we present a novel deep-learning-based robust nonlinear controller (Neural-Lander) that improves control performance of a quadrotor during landing. Our approach combines a nominal dynamics model with a Deep Neural Network (DNN) that learns high-order interactions. We apply spectral normalization (SN) to constrain the Lipschitz constant of the DNN. Leveraging this Lipschitz property, we design a nonlinear feedback linearization controller using the learned model and prove system stability with disturbance rejection. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first DNN-based nonlinear feedback controller with stability guarantees that can utilize arbitrarily large neural nets. Experimental results demonstrate that the proposed controller significantly outperforms a Baseline Nonlinear Tracking Controller in both landing and cross-table trajectory tracking cases. We also empirically show that the DNN generalizes well to unseen data outside the training domain.


Title: DeltaMag: An Electromagnetic Manipulation System with Parallel Mobile Coils
Abstract: In this paper, a novel magnetic manipulation system using mobile coils for remote actuation of magnetic untethered devices in an enlarged workspace is proposed and studied. A parallel mechanism is implemented to actuate the mobile coils. A proof-of-concept prototype is designed and constructed, namely the DeltaMag, which includes three electromagnetic coils for generating magnetic fields and three motors for actuation of the coils. It has good space utilization: ratio between the diameter of the workspace and the diameter of the whole prototype reaches 0.7.A calibrated mathematical model is developed for the field distribution of a single coil, which has an average error of 8.75%. Then, we introduce a calculation method for the 3D magnetic field at any working position for the configuration of multiple parallel mobile coils. Moreover, an embedded system is established for actuating the parallel mechanism, whose pose is fed back via serial communication for magnetic field computation. A vision based approach is developed for closed-loop control of the parallel mechanism. Furthermore, experiments demonstrate the capabilities of the DeltaMag for manipulation of a magnetic catheter mock-up and a magnetic capsule mock-up in a workspace with a diameter more than 200 mm.


Title: Steering a Multi-armed Robotic Sheath Using Eccentric Precurved Tubes
Abstract: This paper presents a novel continuum robot sheath for use in single-port minimally invasive procedures such as neuroendoscopy in which the sheath is designed to deliver multiple robotic arms. Articulation of the sheath is achieved by using precurved superelastic tubes lining the working channels used for arm delivery. These tubes perform a similar role to push/pull tendons, but can accomplish shape change of the sheath via rotation as well as translation. A kinematic model using Cosserat rod theory is derived which is based on modeling the system as a set of eccentrically aligned precurved tubes constrained along their length by an elastic backbone. The specific case of a two-arm sheath is considered in detail and its relationship to a concentric tube balanced pair is described. Simulation and experiment are used to investigate the concept, map its workspace and to evaluate the kinematic model.


Title: Dynamics Consensus between Centroidal and Whole-Body Models for Locomotion of Legged Robots
Abstract: It is nowadays well-established that locomotion can be written as a large and complex optimal control problem. Yet, current knowledge in numerical solver fails to directly solve it. A common approach is to cut the dimensionality by relying on reduced models (inverted pendulum, capture points, centroidal). However it is difficult both to account for whole-body constraints at the reduced level and also to define what is an acceptable trade-off at the whole-body level between tracking the reduced solution or searching for a new one. The main contribution of this paper is to introduce a rigorous mathematical framework based on the Alternating Direction Method of Multipliers, to enforce the consensus between the centroidal state dynamics at reduced and whole-body level. We propose an exact splitting of the whole-body optimal control problem between the centroidal dynamics (under-actuation) and the manipulator dynamics (full actuation), corresponding to a re-arrangement of the equations already stated in previous works. We then describe with details how alternating descent is a good solution to implement an effective locomotion solver. We validate this approach in simulation with walking experiments on the HRP-2 robot.


Title: Visual Diver Recognition for Underwater Human-Robot Collaboration
Abstract: This paper presents an approach for autonomous underwater robots to visually detect and identify divers. The proposed approach enables an autonomous underwater robot to detect multiple divers in a visual scene and distinguish between them. Such methods are useful for robots to identify a human leader, for example, in multi-human/robot teams where only designated individuals are allowed to command or lead a team of robots. Initial diver identification is performed using the Faster R-CNN algorithm with a region proposal network which produces bounding boxes around the divers' locations. Subsequently, a suite of spatial and frequency domain descriptors are extracted from the bounding boxes to create a feature vector. A K-Means clustering algorithm, with k set to the number of detected bounding boxes, thereafter identifies the detected divers based on these feature vectors. We evaluate the performance of the proposed approach on video footage of divers swimming in front of a mobile robot and demonstrate its accuracy.


Title: Dense Surface Reconstruction from Monocular Vision and LiDAR
Abstract: In this work, we develop a new surface reconstruction pipeline that combines monocular camera images and LiDAR measurements from a moving sensor rig to reconstruct dense 3D mesh models of indoor scenes. For surface reconstruction, the 3D LiDAR and camera are widely deployed for gathering geometric information from environments. Current state-of-the-art multi-view stereo or LiDAR-only reconstruction methods cannot reconstruct indoor environments accurately due to shortcomings of each sensor type. In our approach, LiDAR measurements are integrated into a multi-view stereo pipeline for point cloud densification and tetrahedralization. In addition to that, a graph cut algorithm is utilized to generate a watertight surface mesh. Because our proposed method leverages the complementary nature of these two sensors, the accuracy and completeness of the output model are improved. The experimental results on real world data show that our method significantly outperforms both the state-of-the-art camera-only and LiDAR-only reconstruction methods in accuracy and completeness.


Title: Prospection: Interpretable plans from language by predicting the future
Abstract: High-level human instructions often correspond to behaviors with multiple implicit steps. In order for robots to be useful in the real world, they must be able to to reason over both motions and intermediate goals implied by human instructions. In this work, we propose a framework for learning representations that convert from a natural-language command to a sequence of intermediate goals for execution on a robot. A key feature of this framework is prospection, training an agent not just to correctly execute the prescribed command, but to predict a horizon of consequences of an action before taking it. We demonstrate the fidelity of plans generated by our framework when interpreting real, crowd-sourced natural language commands for a robot in simulated scenes.


Title: Flight, Camera, Action! Using Natural Language and Mixed Reality to Control a Drone
Abstract: With increasing autonomy, robots like drones are increasingly accessible to untrained users. Most users control drones using a low-level interface, such as a radio-controlled (RC) controller. For a wider adoption of these technologies by the public, a much higher-level interface, such as natural language or mixed reality (MR), allows the automation of the control of the agent in a goal-oriented setting. We present an interface that uses natural language grounding within an MR environment to solve high-level task and navigational instructions given to an autonomous drone. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first work to perform fully autonomous language grounding in an MR setting for a robot. Given a map, our interface first grounds natural language commands to reward specifications within a Markov Decision Process (MDP) framework. Then, it passes the reward specification to an MDP solver. Finally, the drone performs the desired operations in the real world while planning and localizing itself. Our approach uses MR to provide a set of known virtual landmarks, enabling the drone to understand commands referring to objects without being equipped with object detectors for multiple novel objects or a predefined environment model. We conducted an exploratory user study to assess users' experience of our MR interface with and without natural language, as compared to a web interface. We found that users were able to command the drone more quickly via both MR interfaces as compared to the web interface, with roughly equal system usability scores across all three interfaces.


Title: Safe and Fast Path Planning in Cluttered Environment using Contiguous Free-space Partitioning
Abstract: The paper proposes a path planning algorithm for cluttered environment and maze. The proposed planning algorithm exploits the merit of convex optimization while forming the convex navigable free-spaces, ensuring safety of the vehicle. The contiguous convex free-spaces are iteratively computed from a random-walk based seed generation method to create a contiguous navigable geometry. Inside this contiguous navigable geometry an undirected graph is then created, whose each node and edge belong to at least one convex region which boils down the path planning problem into a graph search problem. In addition, the proposed multiple query planning algorithm can merge the user provided feasible initial and goal configuration with the existing undirected graph in each plan, without deteriorating the planning performance in terms of run-time and path length. Simulation and experimental results confirm the superiority of the proposed planning algorithm jointly in terms of both path length and run-time by a significant margin.


Title: Merging Position and orientation Motion Primitives
Abstract: In this paper, we focus on generating complex robotic trajectories by merging sequential motion primitives. A robotic trajectory is a time series of positions and orientations ending at a desired target. Hence, we first discuss the generation of converging pose trajectories via dynamical systems, providing a rigorous stability analysis. Then, we present approaches to merge motion primitives which represent both the position and the orientation part of the motion. Developed approaches preserve the shape of each learned movement and allow for continuous transitions among succeeding motion primitives. Presented methodologies are theoretically described and experimentally evaluated, showing that it is possible to generate a smooth pose trajectory out of multiple motion primitives.


Title: Real-Time Joint Semantic Segmentation and Depth Estimation Using Asymmetric Annotations
Abstract: Deployment of deep learning models in robotics as sensory information extractors can be a daunting task to handle, even using generic GPU cards. Here, we address three of its most prominent hurdles, namely, i) the adaptation of a single model to perform multiple tasks at once (in this work, we consider depth estimation and semantic segmentation crucial for acquiring geometric and semantic understanding of the scene), while ii) doing it in real-time, and iii) using asymmetric datasets with uneven numbers of annotations per each modality. To overcome the first two issues, we adapt a recently proposed real-time semantic segmentation network, making changes to further reduce the number of floating point operations. To approach the third issue, we embrace a simple solution based on hard knowledge distillation under the assumption of having access to a powerful `teacher' network. We showcase how our system can be easily extended to handle more tasks, and more datasets, all at once, performing depth estimation and segmentation both indoors and outdoors with a single model. Quantitatively, we achieve results equivalent to (or better than) current state-of-the-art approaches with one forward pass costing just 13ms and 6.5 GFLOPs on 640×480 inputs. This efficiency allows us to directly incorporate the raw predictions of our network into the SemanticFusion framework [1] for dense 3D semantic reconstruction of the scene.


Title: MRS-VPR: a multi-resolution sampling based global visual place recognition method
Abstract: Place recognition and loop closure detection are challenging for long-term visual navigation tasks. SeqSLAM is considered to be one of the most successful approaches to achieve long-term localization under varying environmental conditions and changing viewpoints. SeqSLAM uses a brute-force sequential matching method, which is computationally intensive. In this work, we introduce a multi-resolution sampling-based global visual place recognition method (MRS-VPR), which can significantly improve the matching efficiency and accuracy in sequential matching. The novelty of this method lies in the coarse-to-fine searching pipeline and a particle filter-based global sampling scheme, that can balance the matching efficiency and accuracy in the long-term navigation task. Moreover, our model works much better than SeqSLAM when the testing sequence is over a much smaller time scale than the reference sequence. Our experiments demonstrate that MRSVPR is efficient in locating short temporary trajectories within long-term reference ones without compromising on the accuracy compared to SeqSLAM.


Title: Continuous Value Iteration (CVI) Reinforcement Learning and Imaginary Experience Replay (IER) For Learning Multi-Goal, Continuous Action and State Space Controllers
Abstract: This paper presents a novel model-free Reinforcement Learning algorithm for learning behavior in continuous action, state, and goal spaces. The algorithm approximates optimal value functions using non-parametric estimators. It is able to efficiently learn to reach multiple arbitrary goals in deterministic and nondeterministic environments. To improve generalization in the goal space, we propose a novel sample augmentation technique. Using these methods, robots learn faster and overall better controllers. We benchmark the proposed algorithms using simulation and a real-world voltage controlled robot that learns to maneuver in a non-observable Cartesian task space.


Title: Multi-Object Search using Object-Oriented POMDPs
Abstract: A core capability of robots is to reason about multiple objects under uncertainty. Partially Observable Markov Decision Processes (POMDPs) provide a means of reasoning under uncertainty for sequential decision making, but are computationally intractable in large domains. In this paper, we propose Object-Oriented POMDPs (OO-POMDPs), which represent the state and observation spaces in terms of classes and objects. The structure afforded by OO-POMDPs support a factorization of the agent's belief into independent object distributions, which enables the size of the belief to scale linearly versus exponentially in the number of objects. We formulate a novel Multi-Object Search (MOS) task as an OO-POMDP for mobile robotics domains in which the agent must find the locations of multiple objects. Our solution exploits the structure of OO-POMDPs by featuring human language to selectively update the belief at task onset. Using this structure, we develop a new algorithm for efficiently solving OO-POMDPs: Object-Oriented Partially Observable Monte-Carlo Planning (OOPOMCP). We show that OO-POMCP with grounded language commands is sufficient for solving challenging MOS tasks both in simulation and on a physical mobile robot.


Title: Multi-Task Template Matching for Object Detection, Segmentation and Pose Estimation Using Depth Images
Abstract: Template matching has been shown to accurately estimate the pose of a new object given a limited number of samples. However, pose estimation of occluded objects is still challenging. Furthermore, many robot application domains encounter texture-less objects for which depth images are more suitable than color images. In this paper, we propose a novel framework, Multi-Task Template Matching (MTTM), that finds the nearest template of a target object from a depth image while predicting segmentation masks and a pose transformation between the template and a detected object in the scene using the same feature map of the object region. The proposed feature comparison network computes segmentation masks and pose predictions by comparing feature maps of templates and cropped features of a scene. The segmentation result from this network improves the robustness of the pose estimation by excluding points that do not belong to the object. Experimental results show that MTTM outperforms baseline methods for segmentation and pose estimation of occluded objects despite using only depth images.


Title: Factored Pose Estimation of Articulated Objects using Efficient Nonparametric Belief Propagation
Abstract: Robots working in human environments often encounter a wide range of articulated objects, such as tools, cabinets, and other jointed objects. Such articulated objects can take an infinite number of possible poses, as a point in a potentially high-dimensional continuous space. A robot must perceive this continuous pose in order to manipulate the object to a desired pose. This problem of perception and manipulation of articulated objects remains a challenge due to its high dimensionality and multi-modal uncertainty. In this paper, we propose a factored approach to estimate the poses of articulated objects using an efficient non-parametric belief propagation algorithm. We consider inputs as geometrical models with articulation constraints, and observed 3D sensor data. The proposed framework produces object-part pose beliefs iteratively. The problem is formulated as a pairwise Markov Random Field (MRF) where each hidden node (continuous pose variable) models an observed object-part's pose and each edge denotes an articulation constraint between a pair of parts. We propose articulated pose estimation by a Pull Message Passing algorithm for Nonparametric Belief Propagation (PMPNBP) and evaluate its convergence properties over scenes with articulated objects.


Title: GraspFusion: Realizing Complex Motion by Learning and Fusing Grasp Modalities with Instance Segmentation
Abstract: Recent progress of deep learning improved the capability of a robot to find a proper grasp of a novel object for different grasp modalities (e.g., pinch and suction). While these previous studies consider multiple modalities separately, several studies develop multi-modal grippers that can achieve simultaneous pinch and suction grasp (multi-modal grasp fusion) for more capable and stable object manipulation. However, the previous studies with these grippers restrict the situations: simple object geometry and uncluttered environments. To overcome these difficulties, we propose a system that consists of: 1) object-class-agnostic grasp modality detection; 2) object-class-agnostic instance segmentation; and 3) grasp template matching for different modalities. The key idea of our work is the introduction of instance segmentation to fuse multiple modalities regarding each instance eluding a grasp of multiple objects at once. In the experiments, we evaluated the proposed system on the real-world picking task in clutter. The experimental results show that the effectiveness of modality detection, instance segmentation, and the integrated system as a whole.


Title: MVX-Net: Multimodal VoxelNet for 3D Object Detection
Abstract: Many recent works on 3D object detection have focused on designing neural network architectures that can consume point cloud data. While these approaches demonstrate encouraging performance, they are typically based on a single modality and are unable to leverage information from other modalities, such as a camera. Although a few approaches fuse data from different modalities, these methods either use a complicated pipeline to process the modalities sequentially, or perform late-fusion and are unable to learn interaction between different modalities at early stages. In this work, we present PointFusion and VoxelFusion: two simple yet effective early-fusion approaches to combine the RGB and point cloud modalities, by leveraging the recently introduced VoxelNet architecture. Evaluation on the KITTI dataset demonstrates significant improvements in performance over approaches which only use point cloud data. Furthermore, the proposed method provides results competitive with the state-of-the-art multimodal algorithms, achieving top-2 ranking in five of the six birds eye view and 3D detection categories on the KITTI benchmark, by using a simple single stage network.


Title: Multi-Modal Geometric Learning for Grasping and Manipulation
Abstract: This work provides an architecture that incorporates depth and tactile information to create rich and accurate 3D models useful for robotic manipulation tasks. This is accomplished through the use of a 3D convolutional neural network (CNN). Offline, the network is provided with both depth and tactile information and trained to predict the object's geometry, thus filling in regions of occlusion. At runtime, the network is provided a partial view of an object. Tactile information is acquired to augment the captured depth information. The network can then reason about the object's geometry by utilizing both the collected tactile and depth information. We demonstrate that even small amounts of additional tactile information can be incredibly helpful in reasoning about object geometry. This is particularly true when information from depth alone fails to produce an accurate geometric prediction. Our method is benchmarked against and outperforms other visual-tactile approaches to general geometric reasoning. We also provide experimental results comparing grasping success with our method.


Title: Realizing Learned Quadruped Locomotion Behaviors through Kinematic Motion Primitives
Abstract: Humans and animals are believed to use a very minimal set of trajectories to perform a wide variety of tasks including walking. Our main objective in this paper is two fold 1) Obtain an effective tool to realize these basic motion patterns for quadrupedal walking, called the kinematic motion primitives (kMPs), via trajectories learned from deep reinforcement learning (D-RL) and 2) Realize a set of behaviors, namely trot, walk, gallop and bound from these kinematic motion primitives in our custom four legged robot, called the “Stoch”. D-RL is a data driven approach, which has been shown to be very effective for realizing all kinds of robust locomotion behaviors, both in simulation and in experiment. On the other hand, kMPs are known to capture the underlying structure of walking and yield a set of derived behaviors. We first generate walking gaits from D-RL, which uses policy gradient based approaches. We then analyze the resulting walking by using principal component analysis. We observe that the kMPs extracted from PCA followed a similar pattern irrespective of the type of gaits generated. Leveraging on this underlying structure, we then realize walking in Stoch by a straightforward reconstruction of joint trajectories from kMPs. This type of methodology improves the transferability of these gaits to real hardware, lowers the computational overhead on-board, and also avoids multiple training iterations by generating a set of derived behaviors from a single learned gait.


Title: Single-shot Foothold Selection and Constraint Evaluation for Quadruped Locomotion
Abstract: In this paper, we propose a method for selecting the optimal footholds for legged systems. The goal of the proposed method is to find the best foothold for the swing leg on a local elevation map. First, we evaluate the geometrical characteristics of each cell on the elevation map, checks kinematic constraints and collisions. Then, we apply the Convolutional Neural Network to learn the relationship between the local elevation map and the quality of potential footholds. During execution time, the controller obtains the qualitative measurement of each potential foothold from the neural model. This method evaluates hundreds of potential footholds and checks multiple constraints in a single step which takes 10 ms on a standard computer without GPU. The experiments were carried out on a quadruped robot walking over rough terrain in both simulation and real robotic platforms.


Title: Handling robot constraints within a Set-Based Multi-Task Priority Inverse Kinematics Framework
Abstract: Set-Based Multi-Task Priority is a recent framework to handle inverse kinematics for redundant structures. Both equality tasks, i.e., control objectives to be driven to a desired value, and set-bases tasks, i.e., control objectives to be satisfied with a set/range of values can be addressed in a rigorous manner within a priority framework. In addition, optimization tasks, driven by the gradient of a proper function, may be considered as well, usually as lower priority tasks. In this paper the proper design of the tasks, their priority and the use of a Set-Based Multi-Task Priority framework is proposed in order to handle several constraints simultaneously in real-time. It is shown that safety related tasks such as, e.g., joint limits or kinematic singularity, may be properly handled by consider them both at an higher priority as set-based task and at a lower within a proper optimization functional. Experimental results on a 7DOF Jaco2 arm with and without the proposed approach show the effectiveness of the proposed method.


Title: Algorithmic Resolution of Multiple Impacts in Nonsmooth Mechanical Systems with Switching Constraints
Abstract: We present a differential-algebraic formulation with switching constraints to model the nonsmooth dynamics of robotic systems subject to changing constraints and multiple impacts. The formulation combines a single structurally simple governing equation, a set of switching kinematic constraints, and the plastic impact law, to represent the dynamics of robots that interact with their environment. The main contribution of this formulation is a novel algorithmic impact resolution method which provides an explicit solution to the classical plastic impact law in the case of multiple simultaneous impacts. This method serves as an alternative to prior linear-complementarity-based formulations which offer an implicit impact resolution through iterative calculation. We demonstrate the utility of the proposed method by simulating the locomotion of a planar anthropometric biped.


Title: Rigid Body Motion Prediction with Planar Non-convex Contact Patch
Abstract: We present a principled method for motion prediction via dynamic simulation for rigid bodies in intermittent contact with each other where the contact is assumed to be a planar non-convex contact patch. The planar non-convex contact patch can either be a topologically connected set or disconnected set. Such algorithms are useful in planning and control for robotic manipulation. Most work in rigid body dynamic simulation assume that the contact between objects is a point contact, which may not be valid in many applications. In this paper, by using the convex hull of the contact patch, we build on our recent work on simulating rigid bodies with convex contact patches, for simulating motion of objects with planar non-convex contact patches. We formulate a discrete-time mixed complementarity problem where we solve the contact detection and integration of the equations of motion simultaneously. Thus, our method is a geometrically-implicit method and we prove that in our formulation, there is no artificial penetration between the contacting rigid bodies. We solve for the equivalent contact point (ECP) and contact impulse of each contact patch simultaneously along with the state, i.e., configuration and velocity of the objects. We provide empirical evidence to show that our method can seamlessly capture transition between different contact modes like patch contact to multiple or single point contact during simulation.


Title: Controller Synthesis for Discrete-time Hybrid Polynomial Systems via Occupation Measures
Abstract: We consider the feedback design for stabilizing a rigid body system by making and breaking multiple contacts with the environment without prespecifying the timing or the number of occurrence of the contacts. We model such a system as a discrete-time hybrid polynomial system, where the state-input space is partitioned into several polytopic regions with each region associated with a different polynomial dynamics equation. Based on the notion of occupation measures, we present a novel controller synthesis approach that solves finite-dimensional semidefinite programs as approximations to an infinite-dimensional linear program to stabilize the system. The optimization formulation is simple and convex, and for any fixed degree of approximations the computational complexity is polynomial in the state and control input dimensions. We illustrate our approach on some robotics examples.


Title: One-Shot Learning of Multi-Step Tasks from Observation via Activity Localization in Auxiliary Video
Abstract: Due to burdensome data requirements, learning from demonstration often falls short of its promise to allow users to quickly and naturally program robots. Demonstrations are inherently ambiguous and incomplete, making correct generalization to unseen situations difficult without a large number of demonstrations in varying conditions. By contrast, humans are often able to learn complex tasks from a single demonstration (typically observations without action labels) by leveraging context learned over a lifetime. Inspired by this capability, our goal is to enable robots to perform one-shot learning of multi-step tasks from observation by leveraging auxiliary video data as context. Our primary contribution is a novel system that achieves this goal by: (1) using a single user-segmented demonstration to define the primitive actions that comprise a task, (2) localizing additional examples of these actions in unsegmented auxiliary videos via a metalearning-based approach, (3) using these additional examples to learn a reward function for each action, and (4) performing reinforcement learning on top of the inferred reward functions to learn action policies that can be combined to accomplish the task. We empirically demonstrate that a robot can learn multi-step tasks more effectively when provided auxiliary video, and that performance greatly improves when localizing individual actions, compared to learning from unsegmented videos.


