total paper: 159
Title: Learning Motion Planning Policies in Uncertain Environments through Repeated Task Executions
Abstract: The ability to navigate uncertain environments from a start to a goal location is a necessity in many applications. While there are many reactive algorithms for online replanning, there has not been much investigation in leveraging past executions of the same navigation task to improve future executions. In this work, we first formalize this problem by introducing the Learned Reactive Planning Problem (LRPP). Second, we propose a method to capture these past executions and from that determine a motion policy to handle obstacles that the robot has seen before. Third, we show from our experiments that using this policy can significantly reduce the execution cost over just using reactive algorithms.


Title: On-line 3D active pose-graph SLAM based on key poses using graph topology and sub-maps
Abstract: In this paper, we present an on-line active pose-graph simultaneous localization and mapping (SLAM) frame-work for robots in three-dimensional (3D) environments using graph topology and sub-maps. This framework aims to find the best trajectory for loop-closure by re-visiting old poses based on the T-optimality and D-optimality metrics of the Fisher information matrix (FIM) in pose-graph SLAM. In order to reduce computational complexity, graph topologies are introduced, including weighted node degree (T-optimality metric) and weighted tree-connectivity (D-optimality metric), to choose a candidate trajectory and several key poses. With the help of the key poses, a sampling-based path planning method and a continuous-time trajectory optimization method are combined hierarchically and applied in the whole framework. So as to further improve the real-time capability of the method, the sub-map joining method is used in the estimation and planning process for large-scale active SLAM problems. In simulations and experiments, we validate our approach by comparing against existing methods, and we demonstrate the on-line planning part using a quad-rotor unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV).


Title: Modeling and Planning Manipulation in Dynamic Environments
Abstract: In this paper we propose a new model for sequential manipulation tasks that also considers robot dynamics and time-variant environments. From this model we automatically derive constraint-based controllers and use them as steering functions in a kinodynamic manipulation planner. The resulting plan is not a trajectory but a sequence of controllers that react online to disturbances. We validated our approach in simulation and on a real robot. In the experiments our approach plans and executes dual-robot manipulation tasks with online collision avoidance and reactions to estimates of object poses.


Title: Efficient Obstacle Rearrangement for Object Manipulation Tasks in Cluttered Environments
Abstract: We present an algorithm that produces a plan for relocating obstacles in order to grasp a target in clutter by a robotic manipulator without collisions. We consider configurations where objects are densely populated in a constrained and confined space. Thus, there exists no collision-free path for the manipulator without relocating obstacles. Since the problem of planning for object rearrangement has shown to be NP-hard, it is difficult to perform manipulation tasks efficiently which could frequently happen in service domains (e.g., taking out a target from a shelf or a fridge). Our proposed planner employs a collision avoidance scheme which has been widely used in mobile robot navigation. The planner determines an obstacle to be removed quickly in real time. It also can deal with dynamic changes in the configuration (e.g., changes in object poses). Our method is shown to be complete and runs in polynomial time. Experimental results in a realistic simulated environment show that our method improves up to 31% of the execution time compared to other competitors.


Title: MoveIt! Task Constructor for Task-Level Motion Planning
Abstract: A lot of motion planning research in robotics focuses on efficient means to find trajectories between individual start and goal regions, but it remains challenging to specify and plan robotic manipulation actions which consist of multiple interdependent subtasks. The Task Constructor framework we present in this work provides a flexible and transparent way to define and plan such actions, enhancing the capabilities of the popular robotic manipulation framework MoveIt!.11The Task Constructor framework is publicly available at https://github.com/ros-planning/moveit_task_constructor Subproblems are solved in isolation in black-box planning stages and a common interface is used to pass solution hypotheses between stages. The framework enables the hierarchical organization of basic stages using containers, allowing for sequential as well as parallel compositions. The flexibility of the framework is illustrated in multiple scenarios performed on various robot platforms, including bimanual ones.


Title: Versatile Reactive Bipedal Locomotion Planning Through Hierarchical Optimization
Abstract: When experiencing disturbances during locomotion, human beings use several strategies to maintain balance, e.g. changing posture, modulating step frequency and location. However, when it comes to the gait generation for humanoid robots, modifying step time or body posture in real time introduces nonlinearities in the walking dynamics, thus increases the complexity of the planning. In this paper, we propose a two-layer hierarchical optimization framework to address this issue and provide the humanoids with the abilities of step time and step location adjustment, Center of Mass (CoM) height variation and angular momentum adaptation. In the first layer, times and locations of consecutive two steps are modulated online based on the current CoM state using the Linear Inverted Pendulum Model. By introducing new optimization variables to substitute the hyperbolic functions of step time, the derivatives of the objective function and feasibility constraints are analytically derived, thus reduces the computational cost. Then, taking the generated horizontal CoM trajectory, step times and step locations as inputs, CoM height and angular momentum changes are optimized by the second layer nonlinear model predictive control. This whole procedure will be repeated until the termination condition is met. The improved recovery capability under external disturbances is validated in simulation studies.


Title: Intent-Uncertainty-Aware Grasp Planning for Robust Robot Assistance in Telemanipulation
Abstract: Promoting a robot agent's autonomy level, which allows it to understand the human operator's intent and provide motion assistance to achieve it, has demonstrated great advantages to the operator's intent in teleoperation. However, the research has been limited to the target approaching process. We advance the shared control technique one step further to deal with the more challenging object manipulation task. Appropriately manipulating an object is challenging as it requires fine motion constraints for a certain manipulation task. Although these motion constraints are critical for task success, they are subtle to observe from ambiguous human motion. The disembodiment problem and physical discrepancy between the human and robot hands bring additional uncertainty, make the object manipulation task more challenging. Moreover, there is a lack of modeling and planning techniques that can effectively combine the human motion input and robot agent's motion input while accounting for the ambiguity of the human intent. To overcome this challenge, we built a multi-task robot grasping model and developed an intent-uncertainty-aware grasp planner to generate robust grasp poses given the ambiguous human intent inference inputs. With this validated modeling and planning techniques, it is expected to extend teleoperated robots' functionality and adoption in practical telemanipulation scenarios.


Title: Stability Optimization of Two-Fingered Anthropomorphic Hands for Precision Grasping with a Single Actuator
Abstract: In this paper, we present a constrained optimization framework for evaluating the post-contact stability of underactuated precision grasping configurations with a single degree of actuation. Relationships between key anthropomorphic design parameters including link length ratios, transmission ratios, joint stiffness ratios and palm width are developed with applications in upper limb prosthetic design. In addition to grasp stability, we examine post-contact system work, to reduce reconfiguration, and consider the range of objects that can be stably grasped. External wrenches were simulated on a subset of the heuristically evaluated optimal solutions and an optimal configuration was experimentally tested to determine favorable wrench resistible gripper orientations for grasp planning applications.


Title: Motion Planning Templates: A Motion Planning Framework for Robots with Low-power CPUs
Abstract: Motion Planning Templates (MPT) is a C++ template-based library that uses compile-time polymorphism to generate robot-specific motion planning code and is geared towards eking out as much performance as possible when running on the low-power CPU of a battery-powered small robot. To use MPT, developers of robot software write or leverage code specific to their robot platform and motion planning problem, and then have MPT generate a robot-specific motion planner and its associated data-structures. The resulting motion planner implementation is faster and uses less memory than general motion planning implementations based upon runtime polymorphism. While MPT loses runtime flexibility, it gains advantages associated with compile-time polymorphism- including the ability to change scalar precision, generate tightly-packed data structures, and store robot-specific data in the motion planning graph. MPT also uses compile-time algorithms to resolve the algorithm implementation, and select the best nearest neighbor algorithm to integrate into it. We demonstrate MPT's performance, lower memory footprint, and ability to adapt to varying robots in motion planning scenarios on a small humanoid robot and on 3D rigid-body motions.


Title: Flight Testing Boustrophedon Coverage Path Planning for Fixed Wing UAVs in Wind
Abstract: A method was previously developed by this author to optimise the flight path of a fixed wing UAV performing aerial surveys of complex concave agricultural fields. This relies heavily on a flight time in wind prediction model as its cost function. This paper aims to validate this model by comparing flight test results with the model prediction. There are a number of assumptions that this model relies on. The major assumption is that wind is steady and uniform over the small area and time scales involved in a survey. To show that this is reasonable, wind fields measurements will be taken from a multi rotor UAV with an ultrasonic windspeed sensor.


Title: Obstacle-aware Adaptive Informative Path Planning for UAV-based Target Search
Abstract: Target search with unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs) is relevant problem to many scenarios, e.g., search and rescue (SaR). However, a key challenge is planning paths for maximal search efficiency given flight time constraints. To address this, we propose the Obstacle-aware Adaptive Informative Path Planning (OA-IPP) algorithm for target search in cluttered environments using UAVs. Our approach leverages a layered planning strategy using a Gaussian Process (GP)based model of target occupancy to generate informative paths in continuous 3D space. Within this framework, we introduce an adaptive replanning scheme which allows us to trade off between information gain, field coverage, sensor performance, and collision avoidance for efficient target detection. Extensive simulations show that our OA-IPP method performs better than state-of-the-art planners, and we demonstrate its application in a realistic urban SaR scenario.


Title: Real-Time Planning with Multi-Fidelity Models for Agile Flights in Unknown Environments
Abstract: Autonomous navigation through unknown environments is a challenging task that entails real-time localization, perception, planning, and control. UAVs with this capability have begun to emerge in the literature with advances in lightweight sensing and computing. Although the planning methodologies vary from platform to platform, many algorithms adopt a hierarchical planning architecture where a slow, low-fidelity global planner guides a fast, high-fidelity local planner. However, in unknown environments, this approach can lead to erratic or unstable behavior due to the interaction between the global planner, whose solution is changing constantly, and the local planner; a consequence of not capturing higher-order dynamics in the global plan. This work proposes a planning framework in which multi-fidelity models are used to reduce the discrepancy between the local and global planner. Our approach uses high-, medium-, and low-fidelity models to compose a path that captures higher-order dynamics while remaining computationally tractable. In addition, we address the interaction between a fast planner and a slower mapper by considering the sensor data not yet fused into the map during the collision check. This novel mapping and planning framework for agile flights is validated in simulation and hardware experiments, showing replanning times of 5-40 ms in cluttered environments.


Title: Efficient Trajectory Planning for High Speed Flight in Unknown Environments
Abstract: There has been considerable recent work in motion planning for UAVs to enable aggressive, highly dynamic flight in known environments with motion capture systems. However, these existing planners have not been shown to enable the same kind of flight in unknown, outdoor environments. In this paper we present a receding horizon planning architecture that enables the fast replanning necessary for reactive obstacle avoidance by combining three techniques. First, we show how previous work in computationally efficient, closed-form trajectory generation method can be coupled with spatial partitioning data structures to reason about the geometry of the environment in real-time. Second, we show how to maintain safety margins during fast flight in unknown environments by planning velocities according to obstacle density. Third, our receding-horizon, sampling-based motion planner uses minimum-jerk trajectories and closed-loop tracking to enable smooth, robust, high-speed flight with the low angular rates necessary for accurate visual-inertial navigation. We compare against two state-of-the-art, reactive motion planners in simulation and benchmark solution quality against an offline global planner. Finally, we demonstrate our planner over 80 flights with a combined distance of 22km of autonomous quadrotor flights in an urban environment at speeds up to 9.4ms $^{-1}$.


Title: Priority Maps for Surveillance and Intervention of Wildfires and other Spreading Processes
Abstract: Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV) path planning algorithms often assume a knowledge reward function or priority map, indicating the most important areas to visit. In this paper we propose a method to create priority maps for monitoring or intervention of dynamic spreading processes such as wildfires. The presented optimization framework utilizes the properties of positive systems, in particular the separable structure of value (cost-to-go) functions, to provide scalable algorithms for surveillance and intervention. We present results obtained for a 16 and 1000 node example and convey how the priority map responds to changes in the dynamics of the system. The larger example of 1000 nodes, representing a fictional landscape, shows how the method can integrate bushfire spreading dynamics, landscape and wind conditions. Finally, we give an example of combining the proposed method with a travelling salesman problem for UAV path planning for wildfire intervention.


Title: A Data-Efficient Framework for Training and Sim-to-Real Transfer of Navigation Policies
Abstract: Learning effective visuomotor policies for robots purely from data is challenging, but also appealing since a learning-based system should not require manual tuning or calibration. In the case of a robot operating in a real environment the training process can be costly, time-consuming, and even dangerous since failures are common at the start of training. For this reason, it is desirable to be able to leverage simulation and off-policy data to the extent possible to train the robot. In this work, we introduce a robust framework that plans in simulation and transfers well to the real environment. Our model incorporates a gradient-descent based planning module, which, given the initial image and goal image, encodes the images to a lower dimensional latent state and plans a trajectory to reach the goal. The model, consisting of the encoder and planner modules, is first trained through a meta-learning strategy in simulation. We subsequently perform adversarial domain transfer on the encoder by using a bank of unlabelled but random images from the simulation and real environments to enable the encoder to map images from the real and simulated environments to a similarly distributed latent representation. By fine tuning the entire model (encoder + planner) with only a few real world expert demonstrations, we show successful planning performances in different navigation tasks.


Title: Towards Learning Abstract Representations for Locomotion Planning in High-dimensional State Spaces
Abstract: Ground robots which are able to navigate a variety of terrains are needed in many domains. One of the key aspects is the capability to adapt to the ground structure, which can be realized through movable body parts coming along with additional degrees of freedom (DoF). However, planning respective locomotion is challenging since suitable representations result in large state spaces. Employing an additional abstract representation-which is coarser, lower-dimensional, and semantically enriched-can support the planning. While a desired robot representation and action set of such an abstract representation can be easily defined, the cost function requires large tuning efforts. We propose a method to represent the cost function as a CNN. Training of the network is done on generated artificial data, while it generalizes well to the abstraction of real world scenes. We further apply our method to the problem of search-based planning of hybrid driving-stepping locomotion. The abstract representation is used as a powerful informed heuristic which accelerates planning by multiple orders of magnitude.


Title: Fast Stochastic Functional Path Planning in Occupancy Maps
Abstract: Path planners are generally categorised as either trajectory optimisers or sampling-based planners. The latter is the predominant planning paradigm for occupancy maps. Most trajectory optimisers require a fully defined artificial potential field for planning and cannot incorporate updates from a partially observed model such as an occupancy map. A stochastic trajectory optimiser capable of planning over occupancy map was presented in [1]. However, its scalability is limited by the cubic complexity of the Gaussian process path representation. In this work, we introduce a novel highly expressive path representation based on kernel approximation to perform trajectory optimisation over occupancy maps. This approach reduces the computational complexity to a fixed cost that only depends on the number of features. We show that stochastic sampling is crucial for planning in occupancy maps and present comparisons to other state-of-the-art planning methods, using simulated and real occupancy data. These experiments demonstrate the significant reduction in runtime, resulting in performance comparable to or better than sampling-based methods.


Title: A Scalable Framework For Real-Time Multi-Robot, Multi-Human Collision Avoidance
Abstract: Robust motion planning is a well-studied problem in the robotics literature, yet current algorithms struggle to operate scalably and safely in the presence of other moving agents, such as humans. This paper introduces a novel framework for robot navigation that accounts for high-order system dynamics and maintains safety in the presence of external disturbances, other robots, and humans. Our approach precomputes a tracking error margin for each robot, generates confidence-aware human motion predictions, and coordinates multiple robots with a sequential priority ordering, effectively enabling scalable safe trajectory planning and execution. We demonstrate our approach in hardware with two robots and two humans, and showcase scalability in a larger simulation.


Title: Lazy Evaluation of Goal Specifications Guided by Motion Planning
Abstract: Nowadays robotic systems are expected to share workspaces and collaborate with humans. In such collaborative environments, an important challenge is to ground or establish the correct semantic interpretation of a human request. Once such an interpretation is available, the request must be translated into robot motion commands in order to complete the desired task. It is not unusual that a human request cannot be grounded to a unique interpretation, thus leading to an ambiguous request. A simple example is to ask a robot to “put a cup on the table,” when there are multiple cups available. In order to deal with this kind of ambiguous request, we propose a delayed or lazy variable grounding. The focus of this paper is a motion planning algorithm that, given goal regions that represent different valid groundings, lazily finds a feasible path to any one valid grounding. This algorithm includes a reward-penalty strategy, which attempts to prioritize those goal regions that seem more promising to provide a solution. We validate our approach by solving requests with multiple valid alternatives in both simulation and real-world experiments.


Title: Reconfigurable Motion Planning and Control in Obstacle Cluttered Environments under Timed Temporal Tasks
Abstract: This work addresses the problem of robot navigation under timed temporal specifications in workspaces cluttered with obstacles. We propose a hybrid control strategy that guarantees the accomplishment of a high-level specification expressed as a timed temporal logic formula, while preserving safety (i.e., obstacle avoidance) of the system. In particular, we utilize a motion controller that achieves safe navigation inside the workspace in predetermined time, thus allowing us to abstract the motion of the agent as a finite timed transition system among certain regions of interest. Next, we employ standard formal verification and convex optimization techniques to derive high-level timed plans that satisfy the agent's specifications. A simulation study illustrates and clarifies the proposed scheme.


Title: Turn-minimizing multirobot coverage
Abstract: Multirobot coverage is the problem of planning paths for several identical robots such that the combined regions traced out by the robots completely cover their environment. We consider the problem of multirobot coverage with the objective of minimizing the mission time, which depends on the number of turns taken by the robots. To solve this problem, we first partition the environment into ranks which are long thin rectangles the width of the robot's coverage tool. Our novel partitioning heuristic produces a set of ranks which minimizes the number of turns. Next, we solve a variant of the multiple travelling salesperson problem (m-TSP) on the set of ranks to minimize the robots' mission time. The resulting coverage plan is guaranteed to cover the entire environment. We present coverage plans for a robotic vacuum using real maps of 25 indoor environments and compare the solutions to paths planned without the objective of minimizing turns. Turn minimization reduced the number of turns by 6.7% and coverage time by 3.8% on average for teams of 1-5 robots.


Title: Efficient Kinodynamic Multi-Robot Replanning in Known Workspaces
Abstract: In this work, we consider the problem of online centralized kinodynamic multi-robot replanning (from potentially non-stationary initial states) and coordination in known and cluttered workspaces. Offline state lattice reachability analysis is leveraged to decouple the planning problem into two sequential graph searches-one in the explicit geometric graph of the environment and the other in the graph of the higher-order derivatives of the robot's state-in a manner such that the intermediate vertices of a safe set of geometric paths are guaranteed to have a feasible assignment of higher-order derivatives. Without additional iterative refinement procedures, the resulting time parameterized polynomial trajectories are dynamically feasible and collision-free. Planning results with up to 20 robots in two and three dimensional workspaces suggest the suitability of the proposed approach for multi-robot replanning in known environments.


Title: Feedback motion planning of legged robots by composing orbital Lyapunov functions using rapidly-exploring random trees
Abstract: We present a sampling-based framework for feedback motion planning of legged robots. Our framework is based on switching between limit cycles at a fixed instance of motion, the Poincaré section (e.g., apex or touchdown), by finding overlaps between the regions of attraction (ROA) of two limit cycles. First, we assume a candidate orbital Lyapunov function (OLF) and define a ROA at the Poincaré section. Next, we solve multiple trajectory optimization problems, one for each sampled initial condition on the ROA to minimize an energy metric and subject to the exponential convergence of the OLF between two steps. The result is a table of control actions and the corresponding initial conditions at the Poincaré section. Then we develop a control policy for each control action as a function of the initial condition using deep learning neural networks. The control policy is validated by testing on initial conditions sampled on ROA of randomly chosen limit cycles. Finally, the rapidly-exploring random tree algorithm is adopted to plan transitions between the limit cycles using the ROAs. The approach is demonstrated on a hopper model to achieve velocity and height transitions between steps.


Title: Feasibility Study of Robotic Needles with a Rotational Tip-Joint and Notch Patterns
Abstract: In this paper, we present the design of a steerable needle with proximal notch patterns for compliance and an embedded rotational tip joint for articulation. The device is fabricated by laser machining NiTi tube so that an inner working channel exists (to enable delivery of fluids, drugs or microtools) and no assembly is required for the joints. We formulate its model based on the classical Cosserat Rod theory. This is extended with incremental state prediction and a simple spring model for tissue reaction to integrate into a planning algorithm based on Dynamic Region RRT which efficiently explores the needle's state space. The planner was initialized with a target zone and arbitrary anatomical obstacles before running simulations which propagated incremental state changes at every step while adhering to constraints based on the physical system. Finally, we demonstrate the steering capability of the needle through insertion tests into a phantom.


Title: Autonomous Laparoscopic Robotic Suturing with a Novel Actuated Suturing Tool and 3D Endoscope
Abstract: Compared to open surgical techniques, laparoscopic surgical methods aim to reduce the collateral tissue damage and hence decrease the patient recovery time. However, constraints imposed by the laparoscopic surgery, i.e. the operation of surgical tools in limited spaces, turn simple surgical tasks such as suturing into time-consuming and inconsistent tasks for surgeons. In this paper, we develop an autonomous laparoscopic robotic suturing system. More specific, we expand our smart tissue anastomosis robot (STAR) by developing i) a new 3D imaging endoscope, ii) a novel actuated laparoscopic suturing tool, and iii) a suture planning strategy for the autonomous suturing. We experimentally test the accuracy and consistency of our developed system and compare it to sutures performed manually by surgeons. Our test results on suture pads indicate that STAR can reach 2.9 times better consistency in suture spacing compared to manual method and also eliminate suture repositioning and adjustments. Moreover, the consistency of suture bite sizes obtained by STAR matches with those obtained by manual suturing.


Title: Transferring Grasp Configurations using Active Learning and Local Replanning
Abstract: We present a new approach to transfer grasp configurations from prior example objects to novel objects. We assume the novel and example objects have the same topology and similar shapes. We perform 3D segmentation on these objects using geometric and semantic shape characteristics. We compute a grasp space for each part of the example object using active learning. We build bijective contact mapping between these model parts and compute the corresponding grasps for novel objects. Finally, we assemble the individual parts and use local replanning to adjust grasp configurations while maintaining its stability and physical constraints. Our approach is general, can handle all kind of objects represented using mesh or point cloud and a variety of robotic hands.


Title: Analytic Collision Risk Calculation for Autonomous Vehicle Navigation
Abstract: Collision checking and avoidance is an import part of the perception and planning system for autonomous driving. We present a new analytic approach to calculate the probability of a future collision and extend another already known solution to be suitable for ground vehicle navigation. Our new concept of the collision octagon facilitates in both cases the derivation of an analytic solution. Both approaches are compared to each other using simulated and real world scenarios. By comparing the results of the analytic solutions to the corresponding Monte Carlo simulations, their accuracy and real-time capability is demonstrated. The suitability of the analytic solutions for real world autonomous systems is further proven by integrating them into the trajectory prediction and planning system of the self-driving car of the Freie Universität Berlin.


Title: A new approach to local navigation for autonomous driving vehicles based on the curvature velocity method
Abstract: This paper presents an approach for a car navigation system to follow a road path consisting on a sequence of lanelets. The motion control is divided into high-level planning that produces the road path and lower-level reactive control that safely follows the path. The approach presented here is the lower-level reactive control that combines the simple pure pursuit method to obtain a reference curvature with the beam curvature method (BCM) that keeps the car in the center of the free space in the lane avoiding obstacles that can partially block the lane. The whole system has been applied to an autonomous vehicle aimed for elderly or disable people.


Title: Goal-Driven Navigation for Non-holonomic Multi-Robot System by Learning Collision
Abstract: In this paper, we propose the reinforcement learning based multi-robot collision avoidance approach by learning collision. Dynamical path re-planning, which is massively used in classical collision avoidance methods, needs overall information of the environment. Also, training agent robots to avoid the collision and pursue a goal point simultaneously is inefficient since the agent should learn two tasks. As the number of tasks that the agent should learn increases, it is difficult to make the performance of an algorithm consistent, which is known as reproducibility issue. To overcome these limitations, Collision Avoidance by Learning Collision (CALC), which learns collision instead of avoiding an obstacle robot is suggested. To solve the collision avoidance problem efficiently, the proposed method divides the problem into training and planning. In the training algorithm, an agent robot learns how to collide with a single obstacle robot and then generates a trained policy. With the trained policy, the agent can pursue a goal point since the policy leads the agent to `collide' with the goal. Furthermore, by taking action in a reverse way from the trained policy, the agent can avoid multiple obstacle robots in the planning algorithm at once. The proposed method is validated both in the robot simulation and real robot experiment, and compared with the existing collision avoidance method.


Title: Efficient Exact Collision Detection between Ellipsoids and Superquadrics via Closed-form Minkowski Sums
Abstract: Collision detection has attracted attention of researchers for decades in the field of computer graphics, robot motion planning, computer aided design, etc. A large number of successful algorithms have been proposed and applied, which make use of convex polytopes and bounding volumes as primitives. However, algorithms for those shapes rely significantly on the complexity of the meshes. This paper deals with collision detection for shapes with simple and exact mathematical descriptions, such as ellipsoids and superquadrics. These primitives have a wide range of applications in representing complex objects and have much fewer parameters than meshes. The foundation of the proposed collision detection scheme relies on the closed-form Minkowski sums between ellipsoids and superquadrics in n-dimensional Euclidean space. The basic idea here is to shrink the ellipsoid into a point and expand each superquadric into a new offset surface with closed-form parametric expression. The solutions for detecting relative positions between a point and a general convex differentiable parametric surface in both 2D and 3D are derived, leading to an algorithm for exact collision detection. To compare between exact and inexact algorithms, an accuracy metric is introduced based on the Principal Kinematic Formula (PKF). The proposed algorithm is then compared with existing wellknown algorithms: Gilbert-Johnson-Keerthi (GJK) and Algebraic Separation Conditions (ASC). The results show that the proposed algorithm performs competitively with these efficient checkers.


Title: Learning to Capture a Film-Look Video with a Camera Drone
Abstract: The development of intelligent drones has simplified aerial filming and provided smarter assistant tools for users to capture a film-look footage. Existing methods of autonomous aerial filming either specify predefined camera movements for a drone to capture a footage, or employ heuristic approaches for camera motion planning. However, both predefined movements and heuristically planned motions are hardly able to provide cinematic footages for various dynamic scenarios. In this paper, we propose a data-driven learning-based approach, which can imitate a professional cameraman's intention for capturing a film-look aerial footage of a single subject in real-time. We model the decision-making process of the cameraman with two steps: 1) we train a network to predict the future image composition and camera position, and 2) our system then generates control commands to achieve the desired shot framing. At the system level, we deploy our algorithm on the limited resources of a drone and demonstrate the feasibility of running automatic filming onboard in real-time. Our experiments show how our data-driven planning approach achieves film-look footages and successfully mimics the work of a professional cameraman.


Title: Multi-Vehicle Trajectory optimisation On Road Networks
Abstract: This paper addresses the problem of planning time-optimal trajectories for multiple cooperative agents along specified paths through a static road network. Vehicle interactions at intersections create non-trivial decisions, with complex flow-on effects for subsequent interactions. A globally optimal, minimum time trajectory is found for all vehicles using Mixed Integer Linear Programming (MILP). Computational performance is improved by minimising binary variables using iteratively applied targeted collision constraints, and efficient goal constraints. Simulation results in an open-pit mining scenario compare the proposed method against a fast heuristic method and a reactive approach based on site practices. The heuristic is found to scale better with problem size while the MILP is able to avoid local minima.


Title: Informed Information Theoretic Model Predictive Control
Abstract: The problem of minimizing cost in nonlinear control systems with uncertainties or disturbances remains a major challenge. Model predictive control (MPC), and in particular sampling-based MPC has recently shown great success in complex domains such as aggressive driving with highly nonlinear dynamics. Sampling-based methods rely on a prior distribution to generate samples in the first place. Obviously, the choice of this distribution highly influences efficiency of the controller. Existing approaches such as sampling around the control trajectory of the previous time step perform suboptimally, especially in multi-modal or highly dynamic settings. In this work, we therefore propose to learn models that generate samples in low-cost areas of the state-space, conditioned on the environment and on contextual information of the task to solve. By using generative models as an informed sampling distribution, our approach exploits guidance from the learned models and at the same time maintains robustness properties of the MPC methods. We use Conditional Variational Autoencoders (CVAE) to learn distributions that imitate samples from a training dataset containing optimized controls. An extensive evaluation in the autonomous navigation domain suggests that replacing previous sampling schemes with our learned models considerably improves performance in terms of path quality and planning efficiency.


Title: A Generic Optimization Based Cartesian Controller for Robotic Mobile Manipulation
Abstract: Typically, the problem of robotic manipulation is divided among two sequential phases: a planning one and an execution one. However, since the second one is executed in open loop, the robot is unable to react in real time to changes in the task (e.g. moving object). This paper addresses the mobile manipulation problem from a real-time, closed loop perspective. In particular, we propose a generic optimization-based Cartesian controller, that given a continuous monitoring of the goal, determines the best motion commands. We target our controller to a robotic system comprising an arm and a mobile platform. However, the approach can in principle be extended to more complex mechanisms. The approach is based on shifting the problem to velocity space, where end effector velocity is a linear function of joint and base platform velocities. Our approach was quantitatively evaluated both on simulation and on a real service robot. It was also integrated into a mobile service robot architecture targeting domestic tasks and evaluated on the RoboCup@Home scientific competition. Our results show that the controller is able to reach random arm configurations with a high probability of success.


Title: Motion Planning Networks
Abstract: Fast and efficient motion planning algorithms are crucial for many state-of-the-art robotics applications such as self-driving cars. Existing motion planning methods become ineffective as their computational complexity increases exponentially with the dimensionality of the motion planning problem. To address this issue, we present Motion Planning Networks (MPNet), a neural network-based novel planning algorithm. The proposed method encodes the given workspaces directly from a point cloud measurement and generates the end-to-end collision-free paths for the given start and goal configurations. We evaluate MPNet on various 2D and 3D environments including the planning of a 7 DOF Baxter robot manipulator. The results show that MPNet is not only consistently computationally efficient in all environments but also generalizes to completely unseen environments. The results also show that the computation time of MPNet consistently remains less than 1 second in all presented experiments, which is significantly lower than existing state-of-the-art motion planning algorithms.


Title: Coordinated multi-robot planning while preserving individual privacy
Abstract: We consider the problem of multiple robots that must cooperate within a shared environment, but which wish to limit the information they disclose during their coordination efforts. Specifically, we examine the problems of privacy-preserving rendezvous and persistent monitoring. In the former, the robots construct a joint plan to have them meet, without either knowing beforehand where or when the meeting will occur. In the latter, multiple robots dynamically cover a region of space-they plan collective motions which are collision-free but with the assurance that agents remain ignorant of the paths of others. Accordingly, the tasks are sort of inverses in that the robots must collectively determine whether their joint paths collide or not, then, using this, achieve their collective task. Other than what is learned by the outcome of the joint-collision determination, the robots possess no details of the other paths. Our approach builds on garbled circuits and homomorphic encryption to realize basic secure path intersection primitives. We present algorithms, a software implementation, and a physical experiment on mobile robots to test the practical feasibility of our approach. We believe that these ideas provide a valuable direction for adoption in small Unmanned Systems belonging to different stakeholders.


Title: Development of Informative Path Planning for Inspection of the Hanford Tank Farm
Abstract: Traditional environmental and structural monitoring often uses static sensor networks deployed at predetermined locations or mobile robots that use a rastering technique for area coverage. These methods rely on the operators making assumptions about the nature of the unknown field that is being measured and are often time-consuming for localizing an area of interest. Here, we aim to quickly localize possible leaks within high-level nuclear waste tanks at the Hanford facility. The structure of these tanks precludes most sensor network approaches and raises many issues with robotic inspection, such as navigation within highly constrained environments. This work uses a Bayesian Optimization approach for guiding a mobile robot's search strategy and implements a utility function that allows for prior knowledge of the structure to be incorporated when selecting future search locations. Compared to traditional exhaustive approaches, our method quickly reduces RMSE error and shortens the distance the robot must travel.


Title: Learning to Predict the Wind for Safe Aerial Vehicle Planning
Abstract: Obtaining an accurate estimate of the local wind remains a significant challenge for small unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs). Small UAVs often operate at low altitudes near terrain, where the wind environment can be more complex than at higher altitudes. Combined with their relatively low mass, this makes small UAVs particularly susceptible to wind. In this paper we present an approach for predicting high-resolution wind fields based on a terrain elevation model and known inflow conditions. Our approach uses a deep convolutional neural network (CNN) to generate 3D wind estimates. We show that our approach produces wind estimates with lower prediction error than existing methods, and that inference can be performed on an on-board computer in less than two seconds. By providing the wind estimate to a sampling-based planner we show that the improved estimates allow the planner to generate safer paths in strong wind scenarios than with alternative wind estimation techniques.


Title: Distributed Radiation Field Estimation and Informative Path Planning for Nuclear Environment Characterization
Abstract: This paper details the system and methods designed to enable the autonomous estimation of distributed nuclear radiation fields within complex and possibly GPS-denied environments. A sensing apparatus consisting of three radially placed Thallium-doped Cesium Iodide (CsI(Tl)) scintillators and Silicon Photomultipliers (SiPm) combined with custom- built pulse counting circuitry is designed and the provided readings are pose-annotated using LiDAR-based localization. Given this capacity, a method that utilizes the radiation intensity readings to first calculate the immediate field gradient and then combine this information to update and co-estimate the believed field intensity and gradient across the whole environment is developed. The strategy propagates the effect of each local measurement through field gradient co-estimation and simultaneously derives a model of the underlying uncertainty. To further support the need for informative data gathering, especially in the framework of emergency and rapid reconnaissance missions, a path planning strategy is also developed that first utilizes the field intensity and uncertainty estimates to select its new waypoint and then performs terrain traversability analysis to derive admissible paths. The complete system is evaluated both in simulation and experimentally. The experimental results refer to the autonomous exploration and field estimation inside an indoor facility within which actual radioactive uranium and thorium ore sources have been distributed.


Title: Improving Incremental Planning Performance through Overlapping Replanning and Execution
Abstract: Deployment of motion planning algorithms in practical applications has lagged due to their slow speed in reacting to disturbances. We believe that the best way to address this is to reuse learned planning and control information across queries. In previous work, we introduced Chekov, a reactive, integrated motion planning and execution system that reuses learned information in the form of an enhanced roadmap. We have previously shown how we can use Chekov to formulate trajectory optimization problems that result in superior performance in static environments. In this work, we show how incremental planning can be incorporated into the formulation of optimized trajectories from roadmap seed trajectories. Further, we show how an incremental planner can be adapted to reduce the overhead incurred for replanning when trajectories become invalid during execution.


Title: Online adaptation of uncertain models using neural network priors and partially observable planning
Abstract: One of the key challenges in realizing a robot that is capable of completing a variety of manipulation tasks in the real world is the need to utilize sufficiently compact and rich world models. If the assumed prediction model does not match real observations, planning systems are unable to perform properly. We propose a system that corrects the models based on information collected from the robot's sensors. We encode prior experiences in a neural network to generate possible parameters of the models for a physics engine from real observations. An online POMDP solver is used to plan actions to complete the task while progressively validating and improving the models. We perform experiments in simulations and on a real robot. The results show that this approach appropriately clarifies observed environments, can handle dynamics with discontinuities, and with increasing domain complexity achieves a better success rate than baseline methods.


Title: Energy Gradient-Based Graphs for Planning Within-Hand Caging Manipulation
Abstract: In this work, we present a within-hand manipulation approach that leverages a simple energy model based on caging grasps made by underactuated hands. Instead of explicitly modeling the contacts and dynamics in manipulation, we can calculate a map to describe the energy states of different hand-object configurations under an actuation input. Since the system intrinsically steers towards low energy states, the object's movement is uniquely described by the gradient of the energy map if the corresponding actuation is applied. Such maps are pre-calculated for a range of actuation inputs to represent the system's energy profile. We discretize the workspace into a grid and construct an energy gradient-based graph by locally exploring the gradients of the stored energy profile. Given a goal configuration of a simple cylindrical object, a sequence of actuation inputs can be calculated to manipulate it towards the goal by exploiting the connectivity in the graph. The proposed approach is experimentally implemented on a Yale T42 hand. Our evaluation results show that parts of the graph are well connected, explaining our ability to successfully plan and execute trajectories within the gripper's workspace.


Title: Prediction Maps for Real-Time 3D Footstep Planning in Dynamic Environments
Abstract: Perception of the local environment is a precondition for mobile robots to navigate safely in dynamic environments. Most robots, i.e., humanoids and smaller wheeled robots rely on planar regions. For humanoids, a simple 2D occupancy map as environment representation on which a path is planned is hereby not sufficient since they can step over and onto objects and therefore need height information. Considering dynamic obstacles introduces another level of complexity, since they can lead to necessary replanning or collisions at later stages. In this paper, we present a framework that first extracts planar regions in height maps and detects dynamic obstacles. Our system then uses this information to create a set of prediction maps, in which paths can be efficiently planned in real time at low CPU cost. We show in simulation and real-world experiments that our framework keeps run times well under 10ms for one computation cycle and allows for foresighted real-time 3D footstep planning.


Title: Learning To Grasp Under Uncertainty Using POMDPs
Abstract: Robust object grasping under uncertainty is an essential capability of service robots. Many existing approaches rely on far-field sensors, such as cameras, to compute a grasp pose and perform open-loop grasp after placing gripper under the pose. This often fails as a result of sensing or environment uncertainty. This paper presents a principled, general and efficient approach to adaptive grasping, using both tactile and visual sensing as feedback. We first model adaptive grasping as a partially observable Markov decision process (POMDP), which handles uncertainty naturally. We solve the POMDP for sampled objects from a set, in order to generate data for learning. Finally, we train a grasp policy, represented as a deep recurrent neural network (RNN), in simulation through imitation learning. By combining model-based POMDP planning and imitation learning, the proposed approach achieves robustness under uncertainty, generalization over many objects, and fast execution. In particular, we show that modeling only a small sample of objects enables us to learn a robust strategy to grasp previously unseen objects of varying shapes and recover from failure over multiple steps. Experiments on the G3DB object dataset in simulation and a smaller object set with a real robot indicate promising results.


Title: Adaptive View Planning for Aerial 3D Reconstruction
Abstract: With the proliferation of small aerial vehicles, acquiring close up imagery for high quality reconstruction is gaining importance. We present an adaptive view planning method to collect such images in an automated fashion. We first start by sampling a small set of views to build a coarse proxy to the scene. We then present (i) a method that builds a set of adaptive viewing planes for efficient view selection and (ii) an algorithm to plan a trajectory that guarantees high reconstruction quality which does not deviate too much from the optimal one. The vehicle then follows the trajectory to cover the scene, and the procedure is repeated until reconstruction quality converges or a desired level of quality is achieved. The set of viewing planes provides an effective compromise between using the entire 3D free space and using a single view hemisphere to select the views. We compare our algorithm to existing methods in three challenging scenes. Our algorithm generates views which produce the least reconstruction error comparing to three different baseline approaches.


Title: An Autonomous Loop-Closure Approach for Simultaneous Exploration and Coverage of Unknown Infrastructure Using MAVs
Abstract: The recent proliferation of low-cost Micro Aerial Vehicles (MAV) offers an attractive means for inspecting critical infrastructure autonomously. However, to enable such autonomous tasks requires a precise spatial model of the structure and operational area, typically constructed using sensor measurements obtained from the environment. To facilitate autonomous inspection capabilities, we address the problem of autonomous MAV exploration and coverage of an unknown structure to acquire the spatial information necessary for the development of a high-fidelity 3D model of the structure. Key to this problem is to not only cover the entire structure to acquire a complete set of spatial measurements, but also to minimize accumulative data errors during the exploration through direct planning of loop closures. We introduce a real-time waypoint planning approach to guide MAV motions to achieve complete exploration, coverage, and loop closure while respecting limited onboard resources.


Title: Multi-Vehicle Close Enough Orienteering Problem with Bézier Curves for Multi-Rotor Aerial Vehicles
Abstract: This paper introduces the Close Enough Orienteering Problem (CEOP) for planning missions with multi-rotor aerial vehicles considering their maximal velocity and acceleration limits. The addressed problem stands to select the most rewarding target locations and sequence to visit them in the given limited travel budget. The reward is collected within a non-zero range from a particular target location that allows saving the travel cost, and thus collect more rewards. Hence, we are searching for the fastest trajectories to collect the most valuable rewards such that the motion constraints are not violated, and the travel budget is satisfied. We leverage on existing trajectory parametrization based on Bézier curves recently deployed in surveillance planning using unsupervised learning, and we propose to employ the learning in a solution of the introduced multi-vehicle CEOP. Feasibility of the proposed approach is supported by empirical evaluation and experimental deployment using multi-rotor vehicles.


Title: Critically fast pick-and-place with suction cups
Abstract: Fast robotics pick-and-place with suction cups is a crucial component in the current development of automation in logistics (factory lines, e-commerce, etc.). By “critically fast” we mean the fastest possible movement for transporting an object such that it does not slip or fall from the suction cup. The main difficulties are: (i) handling the contact between the suction cup and the object, which fundamentally involves kinodynamic constraints; and (ii) doing so at a low computational cost, typically a few hundreds of milliseconds. To address these difficulties, we propose (a) a model for suction cup contacts, (b) a procedure to identify the contact stability constraint based on that model, and (c) a pipeline to parameterize, in a time-optimal manner, arbitrary geometric paths under the identified contact stability constraint. We experimentally validate the proposed pipeline on a physical robot system: the cycle time for a typical pick-and-place task was less than 5 seconds, planning and execution times included. The full pipeline is released as opensource for the robotics community.


Title: A constrained control-planning strategy for redundant manipulators
Abstract: This paper presents an interconnected control-planning strategy for redundant manipulators, subject to system and environmental constraints. The method incorporates low-level control characteristics and high-level planning components into a robust strategy for manipulators acting in complex environments, subject to joint limits. This strategy is formulated using an adaptive control rule, a computational efficient estimation of the robot's mathematical model and the nullspace of the constraints. A path is generated that takes into account the capabilities of the platform. The proposed method is computationally efficient, enabling its implementation on a real multi-body robotic system. Through experimental results with a 7 degree-of-freedom (DOF) manipulator, we demonstrate the performance of the method in real-world scenarios.


Title: Combining Physical Simulators and Object-Based Networks for Control
Abstract: Physics engines play an important role in robot planning and control; however, many real-world control problems involve complex contact dynamics that cannot be characterized analytically. Most physics engines therefore employ approximations that lead to a loss in precision. In this paper, we propose a hybrid dynamics model, simulator-augmented interaction networks (SAIN), combining a physics engine with an object-based neural network for dynamics modeling. Compared with existing models that are purely analytical or purely data-driven, our hybrid model captures the dynamics of interacting objects in a more accurate and data-efficient manner. Experiments both in simulation and on a real robot suggest that it also leads to better performance when used in complex control tasks. Finally, we show that our model generalizes to novel environments with varying object shapes and materials.


Title: A Fleet of Miniature Cars for Experiments in Cooperative Driving
Abstract: We introduce a unique experimental testbed that consists of a fleet of 16 miniature Ackermann-steering vehicles. We are motivated by a lack of available low-cost platforms to support research and education in multi-car navigation and trajectory planning. This article elaborates the design of our miniature robotic car, the Cambridge Minicar, as well as the fleet's control architecture. Our experimental testbed allows us to implement state-of-the-art driver models as well as autonomous control strategies, and test their validity in a real, physical multi-lane setup. Through experiments on our miniature highway, we are able to tangibly demonstrate the benefits of cooperative driving on multi-lane road topographies. Our setup paves the way for indoor large-fleet experimental research.


Title: Multi-robot Informative Path Planning with Continuous Connectivity Constraints
Abstract: We consider the problem of information collection from a polygonal environment using a multi-robot system, subject to continuous connectivity constraints. In particular, the robots, having a common radius of communication range, must remain connected throughout the exploration maximizing the information collection. The information gained through the exploration of the terrain is wirelessly transmitted to a base station. The base station performs the centralized planning of informative paths for the robots based on the information collected by them and thereafter, the robots follow these paths. This paper formulates the problem of multi-robot informative path planning under continuous connectivity constraints as an integer program leveraging the ideas of bipartite graph matching and minimal node separators. Theoretical analysis of the proposed solution proves that the informative paths will be collision-free and will be free of both livelock and deadlock. Experimental results demonstrate the low computational requirements of our algorithm for planning the informative paths, taking only about 0.75 sec. for planning a joint set of collision-free informative locations for 10 robots.


Title: Integrated Mapping and Path Planning for Very Large-Scale Robotic (VLSR) Systems
Abstract: This paper develops a decentralized approach for mapping and information-driven path planning for Very Large Scale Robotic (VLSR) systems. In this approach, obstacle mapping is performed using a continuous probabilistic representation known as a Hilbert map, which formulates the mapping problem as a binary classification task and uses kernel logistic regression to train a discriminative classifier online. A novel Hilbert map fusion method is presented that quickly and efficiently combines the information from individual robot maps. An integrated mapping and path planning algorithm is presented to determine paths of maximum information value, while simultaneously performing obstacle avoidance. Furthermore, the effect of how percentage communication failure effects the overall performance of the system is investigated. The approach is demonstrated on a VLSR system with hundreds of robots that must map obstacles collaboratively over a large region of interest using onboard range sensors and no prior obstacle information. The results show that, through fusion and decentralized processing, the entropy of the map decreases over time and robot paths remain collision-free.


Title: Active Perception in Adversarial Scenarios using Maximum Entropy Deep Reinforcement Learning
Abstract: We pose an active perception problem where an autonomous agent actively interacts with a second agent with potentially adversarial behaviors. Given the uncertainty in the intent of the other agent, the objective is to collect further evidence to help discriminate potential threats. The main technical challenges are the partial observability of the agent intent, the adversary modeling, and the corresponding uncertainty modeling. Note that an adversary agent may act to mislead the autonomous agent by using a deceptive strategy that is learned from past experiences. We propose an approach that combines belief space planning, generative adversary modeling, and maximum entropy reinforcement learning to obtain a stochastic belief space policy. By accounting for various adversarial behaviors in the simulation framework and minimizing the predictability of the autonomous agent's action, the resulting policy is more robust to unmodeled adversarial strategies. This improved robustness is empirically shown against an adversary that adapts to and exploits the autonomous agent's policy when compared with a standard Chance-Constraint Partially Observable Markov Decision Process robust approach.


Title: Online Estimation of Ocean Current from Sparse GPS Data for Underwater Vehicles
Abstract: Underwater robots are subject to position drift due to the effect of ocean currents and the lack of accurate localisation while submerged. We are interested in exploiting such position drift to estimate the ocean current in the surrounding area, thereby assisting navigation and planning. We present a Gaussian process (GP)-based expectation-maximisation (EM) algorithm that estimates the underlying ocean current using sparse GPS data obtained on the surface and dead-reckoned position estimates. We first develop a specialised GP regression scheme that exploits the incompressibility of ocean currents to counteract the underdetermined nature of the problem. We then use the proposed regression scheme in an EM algorithm that estimates the best-fitting ocean current in between each GPS fix. The proposed algorithm is validated in simulation and on a real dataset, and is shown to be capable of reconstructing the underlying ocean current field. We expect to use this algorithm to close the loop between planning and estimation for underwater navigation in unknown ocean currents.


Title: On Parameter Estimation of Space Manipulator Systems with Flexible Joints Using the Energy Balance*
Abstract: The parameter estimation of space manipulator systems on orbit is studied, whose manipulators are subject to joint flexibilities. To improve path planning and tracking capabilities, advanced control strategies that benefit from the knowledge of system parameters are required. These parameters include the system inertial parameters as well as the stiffness and damping parameters, which describe joint flexibilities. During operation some of these parameters may change or be unknown. Estimation methods based on the equations of motion are sensitive to noise, while methods based on the angular momentum conservation, while they are tolerant to noise, they cannot estimate the parameters that describe joint flexibilities. A parameter estimation method, based on the energy balance, applied during the motion of a space flexible-joint manipulator system in the free-floating mode, is developed. The method is tolerant to noise and can reconstruct the system full dynamics. It is shown that the parameters estimated by the proposed method can describe the system dynamics fully. The application of the developed method is valid for spatial systems; it is illustrated by a planar 7 degrees of freedom (DoF) example system.


Title: Semantic mapping extension for OpenStreetMap applied to indoor robot navigation
Abstract: In this work a graph-based, semantic mapping approach for indoor robotics applications is presented, which is extending OpenStreetMap (OSM) with robotic-specific, semantic, topological, and geometrical information. Models are introduced for basic indoor structures such as walls, doors, corridors, elevators, etc. The architectural principles support composition with additional domain and application-specific knowledge. As an example, a model for an area is introduced, and it is explained how this can be used in navigation. A key advantage of the proposed graph-based map representation is that it allows exploiting the hierarchical structure of the graphs. Finally, the compatibility of the approach with existing, grid-based motion planning algorithms is shown.


Title: Evaluating the Effectiveness of Perspective Aware Planning with Panoramas
Abstract: In this work, we present an information based exploration strategy tailored for the generation of high resolution 3D maps. We employ RGBD panoramas because they have been shown to provide memory efficient high quality representations of space. Robots explore the environment by selecting locations with maximal Cauchy-Schwarz Quadratic Mutual Information (CSQMI) computed on an angle enhanced occupancy grid to collect these RGBD panoramas. By employing the angle enhanced occupancy grid, the resulting exploration strategy emphasizes perspective in addition to binary coverage. Furthermore, the goal selection strategy is improved by using image morphology to reduce the search space over which CSQMI is computed. We present experimental results demonstrating the improved performance in perception related tasks by capturing panoramas using this approach, near frontier exploration, and a control of logging images at regular intervals while teleoperating the robot through the workspace. Collect imagery was passed through an object detection library with our perspective aware approach yielding a greater number of successful detections compared to near frontier exploration.


Title: Actively Improving Robot Navigation On Different Terrains Using Gaussian Process Mixture Models
Abstract: Robot navigation in outdoor environments is exposed to detrimental factors such as vibrations or power consumption due to the different terrains on which the robot navigates. In this paper, we address the problem of actively improving navigation by planning paths that aim at reducing over time phenomena such as vibrations during traversal. Our approach uses a Gaussian Process (GP) mixture model and an aerial image of the environment to learn and improve continuously a place-dependent model of such phenomena from the experiences of the robot. We use this model to plan paths that trade-off the exploration of unknown promising regions and the exploitation of known areas where the impact of the detrimental factors on navigation is low, leading to an improved navigation over time. We implemented our approach and thoroughly tested it using real-world data. Our experiments suggest that our approach with no initial information leads the robot, after few runs, to follow paths along which it experiences similar vibrations or energy consumption as if it was following the optimal path computed given the ground truth information.


Title: Contact–based Navigation Path Planning for Aerial Robots
Abstract: In this paper the problem of contact-based navigation path planning for aerial robots is considered with the goal of enabling the autonomous in-contact operation on surfaces that can be highly anomalous. Such a capacity can prove critical in inspection through contact missions, as well as when a flying robot is tasked to operate in very narrow environments rendering safe free-flight impossible. To achieve this objective, beyond sliding in contact, a new locomotion primitive is introduced, namely that of azimuth rotations perpendicular to the surface under consideration. This new navigation mode, called flying cartwheel mode, offers navigation resourcefulness and resilience when the system is tasked to move in contact with surfaces that are otherwise non-traversable. The designed path planning method exploits both navigation modalities and a traversability metric to decide when to switch from sliding to flying cartwheel mode, and overall provides cost-optimal trajectories for in-contact navigation. The proposed approach is verified both in simulation, as well as experimentally using a surface presenting complex anomalies. It is highlighted that the proposed method does not assume any specialized contact mechanism or a control law tailored to physical interaction tasks, and hence is applicable to almost any micro aerial vehicle integrating protective shrouds around its propellers.


Title: Miniaturization of multistage high dynamic range six-axis force sensor composed of resin material
Abstract: The following topics are dealt with: mobile robots; learning (artificial intelligence); robot vision; path planning; motion control; medical robotics; optimisation; object detection; position control; collision avoidance.


Title: How Shall I Drive? Interaction Modeling and Motion Planning towards Empathetic and Socially-Graceful Driving
Abstract: While intelligence of autonomous vehicles (AVs) has significantly advanced in recent years, accidents involving AVs suggest that these autonomous systems lack gracefulness in driving when interacting with human drivers. In the setting of a two-player game, we propose model predictive control based on social gracefulness, which is measured by the discrepancy between the actions taken by the AV and those that could have been taken in favor of the human driver. We define social awareness as the ability of an agent to infer such favorable actions based on knowledge about the other agent's intent, and further show that empathy, i.e., the ability to understand others' intent by simultaneously inferring others' understanding of the agent's self intent, is critical to successful intent inference. Lastly, through an intersection case, we show that the proposed gracefulness objective allows an AV to learn more sophisticated behavior, such as passive-aggressive motions that gently force the other agent to yield.


Title: Improved Coverage Path Planning Using a Virtual Sensor Footprint: a Case Study on Demining
Abstract: Coverage performance in a coverage path planning problem depends both on the path created and on the footprint of the sensor used. The footprint can be increased either by increasing the size of the sensor, or by mounting the sensor on a robotic arm to allow scanning over larger areas as the platform moves, effectively creating a virtual sensor with a larger footprint than the physical sensor's. However, the virtual footprint comes at a cost requiring formulating an optimization problem for the area of interest. In this work, three common strategies to use a metal detector on a platform are discussed, their time and energy performances are formulated and the corresponding optima are found.


Title: A Heuristic for Task Allocation and Routing of Heterogeneous Robots while Minimizing Maximum Travel Cost
Abstract: The article proposes a new heuristic for task allocation and routing of heterogeneous robots. Specifically, we consider a path planning problem where there are two (structurally) heterogeneous robots that start from distinctive depots and a set of targets to visit. The objective is to find a tour for each robot in a manner that enables each target location to be visited at least once by one of the robots while minimizing the maximum travel cost. A solution for Multiple Depot Heterogeneous Traveling Salesman Problem (MDHTSP) with min-max objective is in great demand with many potential applications, because it can significantly reduce the job completion duration. However, there are still no reliable algorithms that can run in short amount of time. As an initial idea of solving min-max MDHTSP, we present a heuristic based on a primal-dual technique that solves for a case involving two robots while focusing on task allocation. Based on computational results of the implementation, we show that the proposed algorithm produces a good quality of feasible solution within a relatively short computation time.


Title: Solving Methods for Multi-Robot Missions Planning with Energy Capacity Consideration
Abstract: We consider a problem minimizing the total duration of accomplishing missions performed by heterogeneous vehicles. The problem respects constraints related to vehicles' capabilities and energy capacities. The goal is to determine the best routes of each vehicle deployed by choosing which waypoints to pass and which observations to perform. Each vehicle has a particular distance matrix and a limited energy. In order to provide high quality solutions within reasonable computational time, two decomposition-based approximate methods were implemented: (i) the Multiphase heuristic, and (ii) the Two-Phase iterative heuristic. The performance of the methods is evaluated against the Branch-and-Cut algorithm using generated instances.


Title: Salty-A Domain Specific Language for GR(1) Specifications and Designs
Abstract: Designing robot controllers that correctly react to changes in the environment is a time-consuming and error-prone process. An alternative is to use “correct-by-construction” synthesis approaches to automatically generate controller designs from high-level specifications. In particular, Generalized Reactivity(l) or GR(1) specifications are well-suited to express specifications for robots that must act in dynamic environments, and approaches to generate controller designs from GR(1) specifications are highly computationally efficient. Toward that end, this paper presents Salty, a domain-specific language for GR(1) specifications. While tools exist to synthesize system designs from GR(1) specifications, Salty makes such specifications easier to write and debug by supporting features such as richer input and output types, user-defined macros, common specification patterns, and specification optimization and sanity checking. Salty interfaces with the separately developed synthesis tool Slugs to produce a system or controller design, and Salty translates this design to a software implementation in a variety of languages. We demonstrate Salty on an application involving coordination of multiple unmanned air vehicles (UAVs) and provide a workflow for connecting synthesized UAV controllers to freely available UAV planning and simulation software suites UxAS and AMASE.


Title: Persistent Multi-Robot Mapping in an Uncertain Environment
Abstract: This paper proposes a method to deploy teams of robots with constrained energy capacities to persistently maintain a map of an uncertain environment. Typical occupancy map approaches assume a static world; however, we introduce a decay in confidence that degrades the occupancy probability of grid cells and promotes revisitation. Further, sections of the map whose occupancy differs between observations are visited more frequently, while unchanging areas are scheduled less frequently. While naive planning is intractable through the entire space of multi-agent spatio-temporal states, the proposed algorithm decouples planning such that constraints are resolved separately by solving tracTable subproblems. We evaluate this approach in simulation and show how the uncertainty of our world model is maintained below an acceptable threshold while the algorithm retains a tractable computation time.


Title: A Fog Robotics Approach to Deep Robot Learning: Application to Object Recognition and Grasp Planning in Surface Decluttering
Abstract: The growing demand of industrial, automotive and service robots presents a challenge to the centralized Cloud Robotics model in terms of privacy, security, latency, bandwidth, and reliability. In this paper, we present a `Fog Robotics' approach to deep robot learning that distributes compute, storage and networking resources between the Cloud and the Edge in a federated manner. Deep models are trained on non-private (public) synthetic images in the Cloud; the models are adapted to the private real images of the environment at the Edge within a trusted network and subsequently, deployed as a service for low-latency and secure inference/prediction for other robots in the network. We apply this approach to surface decluttering, where a mobile robot picks and sorts objects from a cluttered floor by learning a deep object recognition and a grasp planning model. Experiments suggest that Fog Robotics can improve performance by sim-to-real domain adaptation in comparison to exclusively using Cloud or Edge resources, while reducing the inference cycle time by 4× to successfully declutter 86% of objects over 213 attempts.


Title: Streamlines for Motion Planning in Underwater Currents
Abstract: Motion planning for underwater vehicles must consider the effect of ocean currents. We present an efficient method to compute reachability and cost between sample points in sampling-based motion planning that supports long-range planning over hundreds of kilometres in complicated flows. The idea is to search a reduced space of control inputs that consists of stream functions whose level sets, or streamlines, optimally connect two given points. Such stream functions are generated by superimposing a control input onto the underlying current flow. A streamline represents the resulting path that a vehicle would follow as it is carried along by the current given that control input. We provide rigorous analysis that shows how our method avoids exhaustive search of the control space, and demonstrate simulated examples in complicated flows including a traversal along the east coast of Australia, using actual current predictions, between Sydney and Brisbane.


Title: A Unified Closed-Loop Motion Planning Approach For An I-AUV In Cluttered Environment With Localization Uncertainty
Abstract: This paper presents a unified motion planning approach for an Intervention Autonomous Underwater Vehicle (I-AUV) in a cluttered environment with localization uncertainty. With the uncertainty being propagated by an information filter, a trajectory optimization problem closed by a Linear-Quadratic-Gaussian controller is formulated for a coupled design of optimal trajectory, localization, and control. Due to the presence of obstacles or complexity of the cluttered environment, a set of feasible initial I-AUV trajectories covering multiple homotopy classes are required by optimization solvers. Parameterized through polynomials, the initial base trajectories are from solving quasi-quadratic optimization problems that are linearly constrained by waypoints from RRTconnect, while the initial trajectories of the manipulator are generated by a null space saturation controller. Simulations on an I-AUV with a 3 DOF manipulator in cluttered underwater environments demonstrated that initial trajectories are generated efficiently and that optimal and collision-free I-AUV trajectories with low state uncertainty are obtained.


Title: Belief Space Planning for Reducing Terrain Relative Localization Uncertainty in Noisy Elevation Maps
Abstract: Accurate global localization is essential for planetary rovers to reach mission goals and mitigate operational risk. For initial exploration missions, it is inappropriate to deploy GPS or build other infrastructure for navigating. One way of determining global position is to use terrain relative navigation (TRN). TRN compares planetary rover-perspective images and 3D models to existing satellite orbital imagery and digital elevation models (DEMs) for absolute positioning. However, TRN is limited by the quality of orbital data and the presence and uniqueness of terrain features. This work presents a novel combination of belief space planning with terrain relative navigation. Additionally, we introduce a new method for increasing the robustness of belief space planning to noisy map data. The new algorithm provides a statistically significant reduction in localization uncertainty when tested on elevation data produced from lunar orbital imagery.


Title: Soil Displacement Terramechanics for Wheel-Based Trenching with a Planetary Rover
Abstract: Planetary exploration rovers are expensive, weight constrained, and cannot be serviced once deployed. Here, we explore one way to increase their capabilities while avoiding the cost, mass, and complexity leading to these issues. We propose to re-use the large wheel actuators for trenching and other digging operations, which will enable a range of missions such as sampling deeper layers of soil. We present a new, closed-form model of the soil displaced by an angled, spinning wheel to analyze the trenching potential of a driving strategy and inform the control of the wheel. The model is demonstrated with single wheel experiments under different driving conditions. The model suggests: that a deep trench does not require large tractive efforts; that the shape of the trench can be controlled; and that a rear wheel has a lower risk of entrapment when trenching than a front wheel. Ultimately this model could be used in a nonprehensile manipulation planning or learning algorithm to enable autonomous trenching.


Title: Safe and Efficient High Dimensional Motion Planning in Space-Time with Time Parameterized Prediction
Abstract: In this work, we propose an algorithm that can plan safe and efficient robot trajectories in real time, given time-parameterized motion predictions, in order to avoid fast-moving obstacles in human-robot collaborative environments. Our algorithm is able to reduce the robot configuration space and the time domain significantly by constructing a Lazy Safe Interval Probabilistic Roadmap based on a pre-planned path. The algorithm then plans efficient obstacle-avoidance strategies within the space-time roadmap. We benchmarked our algorithm by evaluating the performance of a simulated 6-joint manipulator attempting to avoid a quickly moving human hand, using a dataset collected from human experiments. We compared our algorithm's performance with those of 8 variations of prior state-of-the-art planners. Results from this empirical evaluation indicate that our method generated safe plans in 97.5% of the evaluated situations, achieved a planning speed 30 times faster than the benchmarked methods that planned in the time domain without space reduction, and accomplished the minimal solution execution time among the benchmarked planners with a similar planning speed.


Title: Adaptive Gait Planning for Walking Assistance Lower Limb Exoskeletons in Slope Scenarios
Abstract: Lower-limb exoskeleton has gained considerable interests in walking assistance applications for paraplegic patients. In walking assistance of paraplegic patients, the exoskeleton should have the ability to help patients to walk over different terrains in the daily life, such as slope terrains. One critical issue is how to plan the stepping locations on slopes with different gradients, and generate stable and human-like gaits for patients. This paper proposed an adaptive gait planning approach which can generate gait trajectories adapt to slopes with different gradients for lower-limb walking assistance exoskeletons. We modeled the human-exoskeleton system as a 2D Linear Inverted Pendulum Model (2D-LIPM) with an external force in the two-dimensional sagittal plane, and proposed a Dynamic Gait Generator (DGG) based on an extension of the conventional Capture Point (CP) theory and Dynamic Movement Primitives (DMPs). The proposed approach can dynamically generate reference foot locations for each step on slopes, and human-like adaptive gait trajectories can be reproduced after the learning from demonstrated trajectories that sampled from level ground walking of normal healthy human. We demonstrated the efficiency of the proposed approach on both the Gazebo simulation platform and an exoskeleton named AIDER. Experimental results indicate that the proposed approach is able to provide the ability for exoskeletons to generate appropriate gaits adapt to slopes with different gradients.


Title: Fast Motion Planning for High-DOF Robot Systems Using Hierarchical System Identification
Abstract: We present an efficient algorithm for motion planning and controlling a robot system with a high number of degrees-of-freedom (DOF). These systems include high-DOF soft robots and articulated robots interacting with a deformable environment. We present a novel technique to accelerate the evaluations of the forward dynamics function by storing the results of costly computations in a hierarchical adaptive grid. Furthermore, we exploit the underactuated properties of the robot systems and build the grid in a low-dimensional space. Our approach approximates the forward dynamics function with guaranteed error bounds and can be used in optimization-based motion planning and reinforcement-learning-based feed-back control. We highlight the performance on two high-DOF robot systems: a line-actuated elastic robot arm and an underwater swimming robot in water. Compared to prior techniques based on exact dynamics evaluation, we observe one to two orders of magnitude improvement in the performance.


Title: Resilient Task Planning and Execution for Reactive Soft Robots
Abstract: Soft robots utilize compliant materials to perform motions and behaviors not typically achievable by rigid bodied systems. These materials and soft actuator fabrication methods have been leveraged to create multigait walking soft robots. However, soft materials are prone to failure, restricting the ability of soft robots to accomplish tasks. In this work we address the problem of generating reactive controllers for multigait walking soft robots that are resilient to actuator failure by applying methods of formal synthesis. We present a sensing-based abstraction for actuator performance, provide a framework for encoding multigait behavior and actuator failure in Linear Temporal Logic (LTL), and demonstrate synthesized controllers on a physical soft robot.


Title: Efficient Humanoid Contact Planning using Learned Centroidal Dynamics Prediction
Abstract: Humanoid robots dynamically navigate an environment by interacting with it via contact wrenches exerted at intermittent contact poses. Therefore, it is important to consider dynamics when planning a contact sequence. Traditional contact planning approaches assume a quasi-static balance criterion to reduce the computational challenges of selecting a contact sequence over a rough terrain. This however limits the applicability of the approach when dynamic motions are required, such as when walking down a steep slope or crossing a wide gap. Recent methods overcome this limitation with the help of efficient mixed integer convex programming solvers capable of synthesizing dynamic contact sequences. Nevertheless, its exponential-time complexity limits its applicability to short time horizon contact sequences within small environments. In this paper, we go beyond current approaches by learning a prediction of the dynamic evolution of the robot centroidal momenta, which can then be used for quickly generating dynamically robust contact sequences for robots with arms and legs using a search-based contact planner. We demonstrate the efficiency and quality of the results of the proposed approach in a set of dynamically challenging scenarios.


Title: Spline Based Curve Path Following of Underactuated Snake Robots
Abstract: This paper investigates the curve path following problem for a class of planar underactuated bio-inspired snake robots. The time-varying line-of-sight (LOS) guidance law and the cubic spline interpolation (CSI) path-planning method are employed. Existing studies focus on straight line path following which only gives a solution for snake robot motion control in relatively simple environments. Considering the snake robot's many degrees of freedom and excellent mobility in terrains, we propose a more applicable solution of curve path following for snake robots on the ground. The improved LOS helps the snake robot to steer aggressively at a sharp turning point. Furthermore, to avoid the sideslip of the snake robot caused by the ground friction change, an integral controller is introduced in the design of the heading reference. Simulations and experiments on an 8-link custom-built snake robot are conducted and the results demonstrate and validate the effectiveness of the proposed curve path following algorithm.


Title: Improved A-search guided tree construction for kinodynamic planning
Abstract: With node selection being directed by a heuristic cost [1]-[3], A-search guided tree (AGT) is constructed on-the-fly and enables fast kinodynamic planning. This work presents two variants of AGT to improve computation efficiency. An improved AGT (i-AGT) biases node expansion through prioritizing control actions, an analogy of prioritizing nodes. Focusing on node selection, a bi-directional AGT (BAGT) introduces a second tree originated from the goal in order to offer a better heuristic cost of the first tree. Effectiveness of BAGT pivots on the fact that the second tree encodes obstacles information near the goal. Case study demonstrates that i-AGT consistently reduces the complexity of the tree and improves computation efficiency; and BAGT works largely but not always, particularly with no benefit observed for simple cases.


Title: Balancing Global Exploration and Local-connectivity Exploitation with Rapidly-exploring Random disjointed-Trees
Abstract: Sampling efficiency in a highly constrained environment has long been a major challenge for sampling-based planners. In this work, we propose Rapidly-exploring Random disjointed-Trees* (RRdT*), an incremental optimal multi-query planner. RRdT* uses multiple disjointed-trees to exploit local-connectivity of spaces via Markov Chain random sampling, which utilises neighbourhood information derived from previous successful and failed samples. To balance local exploitation, RRdT* actively explore unseen global spaces when local-connectivity exploitation is unsuccessful. The active trade-off between local exploitation and global exploration is formulated as a multi-armed bandit problem. We argue that the active balancing of global exploration and local exploitation is the key to improving sample efficient in sampling-based motion planners. We provide rigorous proofs of completeness and optimal convergence for this novel approach. Furthermore, we demonstrate experimentally the effectiveness of RRdT*'s locally exploring trees in granting improved visibility for planning. Consequently, RRdT* outperforms existing state-of-the-art incremental planners, especially in highly constrained environments.


Title: Locomotion Planning through a Hybrid Bayesian Trajectory Optimization
Abstract: Locomotion planning for legged systems requires reasoning about suitable contact schedules. The contact sequence and timings constitute a hybrid dynamical system and prescribe a subset of achievable motions. State-of-the-art approaches cast motion planning as an optimal control problem. In order to decrease computational complexity, one common strategy separates footstep planning from motion optimization and plans contacts using heuristics. In this paper, we propose to learn contact schedule selection from high-level task descriptors using Bayesian Optimization. A bi-level optimization is defined in which a Gaussian Process model predicts the performance of trajectories generated by a motion planning nonlinear program. The agent, therefore, retains the ability to reason about suitable contact schedules, while explicit computation of the corresponding gradients is avoided. We delineate the algorithm in its general form and provide results for planning single-legged hopping. Our method is capable of learning contact schedule transitions that align with human intuition. It performs competitively against a heuristic baseline in predicting task appropriate contact schedules.


Title: Dynamic Channel: A Planning Framework for Crowd Navigation
Abstract: Real-time navigation in dense human environments is a challenging problem in robotics. Most existing path planners fail to account for the dynamics of pedestrians because introducing time as an additional dimension in search space is computationally prohibitive. Alternatively, most local motion planners only address imminent collision avoidance and fail to offer long-term optimality. In this work, we present an approach, called Dynamic Channels, to solve this global to local quandary. Our method combines the high-level topological path planning with low-level motion planning into a complete pipeline. By formulating the path planning problem as graph-searching in the triangulation space, our planner is able to explicitly reason about the obstacle dynamics and capture the environmental change efficiently. We evaluate efficiency and performance of our approach on public pedestrian datasets and compare it to a state-of-the-art planning algorithm for dynamic obstacle avoidance. Completeness proofs are provided in the supplement at http://caochao.me/files/proof.pdf. An extended version of the paper is available on arXiv.


Title: Composition of Local Potential Functions with Reflection
Abstract: This paper suggests reflections can be practically useful if they are included in planning for collision capable robot platforms. By modifying a proven strategy for navigation with reflections we maintain global convergence results and reach the goal in less time. An algorithm for identifying reflection surfaces for a given cell decomposition is reported. Baseline and reflected scenarios are compared for two different cell decompositions. Omnipuck, a reflection capable omnidirectional robot meant to store and release impact energy, is used to obtain experimental results and draw conclusions for future work.


Title: Design and Formal Verification of a Safe Stop Supervisor for an Automated Vehicle*
Abstract: Autonomous vehicles apply pertinent planning and control algorithms under different driving conditions. The mode switch between these algorithms should also be autonomous. On top of the nominal planners, a safe fallback routine is needed to stop the vehicle at a safe position if nominal operational conditions are violated, such as for a system failure. This paper describes the design and formal verification of a supervisor to manage all requirements for mode switching between nominal planners, and additional requirements for switching to a safe stop trajectory planner that acts as the fallback routine. The supervisor is designed via a model-based approach and its abstraction is formally verified by model checking. The supervisor is implemented and integrated with the Research Concept Vehicle, an experimental research and demonstration vehicle developed at the KTH Royal Institute of Technology. Simulations and experiments show that the vehicle is able to autonomously drive in a safe manner between two parking lots and can successfully come to a safe stop upon GPS sensor failure.


Title: Optimization-Based Terrain Analysis and Path Planning in Unstructured Environments
Abstract: Accurate environment representation is one of the key challenges in autonomous ground vehicle navigation in unstructured environments. We propose a real-time optimization-based approach to terrain modeling and path planning in off-road and rough environments. Our method uses an irregular, hierarchical, graph-like environment model. A space-dividing tree is used to define a compact data structure capturing vertex positions and establishing connectivity. The same unique underlying data structure is used for both terrain modeling and path planning without memory reallocation. Local plans are generated by graph search algorithms and are continuously regenerated for on-the-fly obstacle avoidance inside the scope of the local terrain map. We show that implementing a hierarchical model over a regular space division reduces graph edge expansions by up to 84%. We illustrate the applicability of the method through experiments with an unmanned ground vehicle in both structured and unstructured environments.


Title: Towards the Design of Robotic Drivers for Full-Scale Self-Driving Racing Cars
Abstract: Autonomous vehicles are undergoing a rapid development thanks to advances in perception, planning and control methods and technologies achieved in the last two decades. Moreover, the lowering costs of sensors and computing platforms are attracting industrial entities, empowering the integration and development of innovative solutions for civilian use. Still, the development of autonomous racing cars has been confined mainly to laboratory studies and small to middle scale vehicles. This paper tackles the development of a planning and control framework for an electric full scale autonomous racing car, which is an absolute novelty in the literature, upon which we report our preliminary experiments and perspectives on future work. Our system leverages real time Nonlinear Model Predictive Control to track a pre-planned racing line. We describe the whole control system architecture including the mapping and localization methods employed.


Title: Real-time Optimal Planning and Model Predictive Control of a Multi-rotor with a Suspended Load
Abstract: This paper presents planning and control algorithms for a multi-rotor with a suspended load. The suspended load cannot be controlled easily by the multi-rotor due to severe dynamic coupling between them. Difficulties are exacerbated by under-actuated, highly nonlinear nature of multi-rotor dynamics. Although many studies have been proposed to plan trajectories and control this system, there exist only a few reports on real-time trajectory generation. With this in mind, we propose a planning method which is capable of generating collision-free trajectories real-time and applicable to a high-dimensional nonlinear system. Using a differential flatness property, the system can be linearized entirely with elaborately chosen flat outputs. Convexification of non-convex constraints is carried out, and concave obstacle-avoidance constraints are converted to convex ones. After that, a convex optimization problem is solved to generate an optimal trajectory, but semi-feasible trajectory which considers only some parts of the initial state. We apply model predictive control with a sequential linear quadratic solver to compute a feasible collision-free trajectory and to control the system. Performance of the algorithm is validated by flight experiment.


Title: Uncertainty-Aware Path Planning for Navigation on Road Networks Using Augmented MDPs
Abstract: Although most robots use probabilistic algorithms to solve state estimation problems, path planning is often performed without considering the uncertainty about the robot's position. Uncertainty, however, matters in planning, but considering it often leads to computationally expensive algorithms. In this paper, we investigate the problem of path planning considering the uncertainty in the robot's belief about the world, in its perceptions and in its action execution. We propose the use of an uncertainty-augmented Markov Decision Process to approximate the underlying Partially Observable Markov Decision Process, and we employ a localization prior to estimate how the belief about the robot's position propagates through the environment. This yields to a planning approach that generates navigation policies able to make decisions according to the degree of uncertainty while being computationally tractable. We implemented our approach and thoroughly evaluated it on different navigation problems. Our experiments suggest that we are able to compute policies that are more effective than approaches that ignore the uncertainty, and that also outperform policies that always take the safest actions.


Title: Real-time Model Based Path Planning for Wheeled Vehicles
Abstract: This work presents a model based traversability analysis method which employs a detailed vehicle model to perform real-time path planning in complex environments. The vehicle model represents the vehicle's wheels and chassis, allowing it to accurately predict the vehicles 3D pose, detailed contact information for each wheel and the occurrence of a chassis collision given a 2D pose on an elevation map. These predictions are weighted, depending on the safety requirements of the vehicle, to provide a scoring function for an A*-like search strategy. The proposed method is designed to run at frame rates of 30Hz on data from a RGB-D sensor to provide reactive planning of safe paths. For evaluation, two wheeled mobile robots in different simulated and real world environment setups were tested to show the reliability and performance of the proposed method.


Title: What lies in the shadows? Safe and computation-aware motion planning for autonomous vehicles using intent-aware dynamic shadow regions
Abstract: One of the challenges of developing autonomous vehicles is planning in an inhabited environment under sensing uncertainty as well as limited perception and computational resources. Besides reasoning about the behaviour of traffic participants that are within the vehicles' field of view, safe autonomous driving also requires the vehicle to reason about possible traffic participants that might exist beyond its sensing horizon, and to adapt its driving behaviour accordingly. This paper describes an inference and motion planning pipeline that is able to guarantee passive safety (collisions are possible, but the autonomous vehicle will be at rest) with respect to hypothetical hidden agents that have not been observed yet. We also incorporate the vehicle's reaction time due to sensing and computational delays into the planning process; for example, we show how having a fast reaction time due to the availability of more computational resources leads to more aggressive trajectories, while a car with a larger reaction time will choose more relaxed trajectories that require less attention.


Title: Deep Local Trajectory Replanning and Control for Robot Navigation
Abstract: We present a navigation system that combines ideas from hierarchical planning and machine learning. The system uses a traditional global planner to compute optimal paths towards a goal, and a deep local trajectory planner and velocity controller to compute motion commands. The latter components of the system adjust the behavior of the robot through attention mechanisms such that it moves towards the goal, avoids obstacles, and respects the space of nearby pedestrians. Both the structure of the proposed deep models and the use of attention mechanisms make the system's execution interpretable. Our simulation experiments suggest that the proposed architecture outperforms baselines that try to map global plan information and sensor data directly to velocity commands. In comparison to a hand-designed traditional navigation system, the proposed approach showed more consistent performance.


Title: CARA system Architecture - A Click and Assemble Robotic Assembly System
Abstract: Future robotic assembly systems will allow product designers to upload their assembled product models remotely such that they can be assembled autonomously. In this work we present the architecture for a Click and Assemble Robotic Assembly (CARA) system. This architecture takes an assembly file uploaded by the user through a web interface as the only input. It then performs all the necessary planning before executing the assembly. To the authors' knowledge, this is the first time that all of the required components from previous advances in robotic assembly have been brought together, with all interconnecting challenges solved, into a complete working system for physical, real world assembly tasks. To demonstrate the implemented architecture capabilities, a real industrial product with tight tolerances was assembled from its CAD file only, illustrating the end to end robotic assembly premise in a real world setting.


Title: Graduated Fidelity Lattices for Motion Planning under Uncertainty
Abstract: In this work we present a state lattice based approach for motion planning in mobile robotics. Sensing and motion uncertainty are managed at planning time to obtain safe and optimal paths. To do this reliably, our approach estimates the probability of collision taking into account the robot shape and the uncertainty in heading. We also introduce a novel graduated fidelity approach and a multi-resolution heuristic which adapt to the obstacles in the map, improving the planning efficiency while maintaining its performance. Results for different environments, shapes and motion models are reported, including experiments with real robots.


Title: Non-Parametric Informed Exploration for Sampling-Based Motion Planning
Abstract: Efficient exploration of the search space is crucial for faster convergence in sampling-based motion planning. An effective sampling method must first concentrate on quickly finding a good initial solution and then focus the search on regions that can potentially improve the current best solution. In this paper, we propose a non-parametric exploration technique that addresses these challenges. The proposed algorithm prioritizes search by utilizing heuristics. After an initial solution is found, the method generates samples in the “$L_{2} -$informed set”, while leveraging collision data to reduce the number of samples in the obstacle space. We demonstrate the efficiency of the proposed approach with several benchmarking experiments.


Title: Simulated Annealing-optimized Trajectory Planning within Non-Collision Nominal Intervals for Highway Autonomous Driving
Abstract: This article considers the problem of near-optimal trajectory generation for autonomous vehicles on highways. The goal is to select a predictive reference trajectory in the free evolution space, while avoiding both generating a pre-calculated set of candidate trajectories and decoupling path and velocity optimizations. Moreover, this trajectory aims at optimizing a decision process based on multi-criteria functions, which are not straightforward to design and can have a blackbox formulation. The main idea of this article is to use the decision evaluation function in the trajectory generator with a Simulated Annealing (SA) approach. The parameters of a sigmoid trajectory are optimized within Non-Collision Nominal Intervals (NCNI), which are defined as collision-free intervals under nominal conditions using a velocity-space representation.


Title: On the Impact of Uncertainty for Path Planning
Abstract: We consider the problem of planning paths on graphs with some edges whose traversability is uncertain; for each uncertain edge, we are given a probability of being traversable (e.g., by a learned classifier). We categorize different interpretations of the problem that are meaningful for mobile robots navigating partially-known environments, each of which yields a different formalization; we then focus on the case in which the true traversability of an edge is revealed only when the agent visits one of its endpoints (Canadian Traveller Problem). In this context, we design a large simulation campaign on synthetic and real-world maps to study the impact of two different factors: the planning strategy, and the amount of uncertainty (which could depend on the quality of the classifier producing traversability estimates).


Title: Accurate and Efficient Self-Localization on Roads using Basic Geometric Primitives
Abstract: Highly accurate localization with very limited amount of memory and computational power is one of the big challenges for next generation series cars. We propose localization based on geometric primitives which are compact in representation and further valuable for other tasks like planning and behavior generation. The primitives lack distinctive signature which makes association between detections and map elements highly ambiguous. We resolve ambiguities early in the pipeline by online building up a local map which is key to runtime efficiency. Further, we introduce a new framework to fuse association and odometry measurements based on robust pose graph optimization.We evaluate our localization framework on over 30 min of data recorded in urban scenarios. Our map is memory efficient with less than 8 kB/km and we achieve high localization accuracy with a mean position error of less than 10 cm and a mean yaw angle error of less than 0. 25° at a localization update rate of 50Hz.


Title: Beyond Point Clouds: Fisher Information Field for Active Visual Localization
Abstract: For mobile robots to localize robustly, actively considering the perception requirement at the planning stage is essential. In this paper, we propose a novel representation for active visual localization. By formulating the Fisher information and sensor visibility carefully, we are able to summarize the localization information into a discrete grid, namely the Fisher information field. The information for arbitrary poses can then be computed from the field in constant time, without the need of costly iterating all the 3D landmarks. Experimental results on simulated and real-world data show the great potential of our method in efficient active localization and perception-aware planning. To benefit related research, we release our implementation of the information field to the public.


Title: DoS-Resilient Multi-Robot Temporal Logic Motion Planning
Abstract: We propose an efficient multi-robot motion planning algorithm for missions captured by linear temporal logic (LTL) specifications, in the presence of bounded disturbances and denial-of-service (DoS) attacks against the communication between robots and base stations. Given an LTL formula Ψ, our goal is to construct robot trajectories, and associated control strategies, to satisfy Ψ and continuously establish communication paths between robots and base stations despite the DoS attacks and the disturbances on the robot states. Our approach combines and extends results from robust control and efficient motion planning via satisfiability modulo convex programming (SMC). We first compute a feedback controller that rejects the disturbance together with a perturbation of the DoS-free workspace that accounts for the worst-case disturbance scenario. On the perturbed workspace, we formulate the planning problem as a feasibility problem over Boolean and convex constraints, respectively capturing the DoS-resilient mission constraints and the constraints on the nominal, disturbance-free, robot dynamics. Numerical results show the effectiveness of our algorithm in providing DoS-resilient plans that are robust to disturbances and support the execution of complex missions.


Title: Efficient Micro Waveguide Coupling based on Microrobotic Positioning
Abstract: Coupling the endface of an optical fiber to an integrated optical component is currently a low-throughput and costly manual process in the fabrication of the optical devices. In order to meet the high-volume demand for commercial optoelectronic devices, coupling must be automated. This paper presents a robotic positioning system and corresponding path planning strategy based on both the position and light intensity feedback. In this work, a micro-robotic positioning system with 3 degrees of freedoms (DOFs) is developed and integrated with an optical microscopy. Then the fuzzy controller is developed to design the trajectory. Lastly, simulation and experimental results demonstrate the accuracy and efficiency of the proposed system. Compared with the traditional manual method, the robotic positioning system can realize the coupling within 40 seconds. This method will have a significant impact on the automatic process of the micro manufacture field.


Title: Data Driven Inverse Kinematics of Soft Robots using Local Models
Abstract: Soft robots are advantageous in terms of flexibility, safety and adaptability. It is challenging to find efficient computational approaches for planning and controlling their motion. This work takes a direct data-driven approach to learn the kinematics of the three-dimensional shape of a soft robot, by using visual markers. No prior information about the robot at hand is required. The model is oblivious to the design of the robot and type of actuation system. This allows adaptation to erroneous manufacturing. We present a highly versatile and inexpensive learning cube environment for collecting and analysing data. We prove that using multiple, lower order models of data opposed to one global, higher order model, will reduce the required data quantity, time complexity and memory complexity significantly without compromising accuracy. Further, our approach allows for embarrassingly parallelism. Yielding an overall much more simple and efficient approach.


Title: ChainQueen: A Real-Time Differentiable Physical Simulator for Soft Robotics
Abstract: Physical simulators have been widely used in robot planning and control. Among them, differentiable simulators are particularly favored, as they can be incorporated into gradient-based optimization algorithms that are efficient in solving inverse problems such as optimal control and motion planning. Therefore, rigid body simulators and recently their differentiable variants are studied extensively. Simulating deformable objects is, however, more challenging compared to rigid body dynamics. The underlying physical laws of deformable objects are more complex, and the resulting systems have orders of magnitude more degrees of freedom and there-fore they are significantly more computationally expensive to simulate. Computing gradients with respect to physical design or controller parameters is typically even more computationally challenging. In this paper, we propose a real-time, differentiable hybrid Lagrangian-Eulerian physical simulator for deformable objects, ChainQueen, based on the Moving Least Squares Material Point Method (MLS-MPM). MLS-MPM can simulate deformable objects with collisions and can be seamlessly incorporated into soft robotic systems. We demonstrate that our simulator achieves high precision in both forward simulation and backward gradient computation. We have successfully employed it in a diverse set of inference, control and co-design tasks for soft robotics.


Title: Control and Configuration Planning of an Aerial Cable Towed System
Abstract: This paper investigates the effect of the robot configuration on the performance of an aerial cable towed system (ACTS) composed of three quadrotors manipulating a point mass payload. The kinematic and dynamic models of the ACTS are derived in a minimal set of geometric coordinates, and a centralized feedback linearization controller is developed. Independent to the payload trajectory, the configuration of the ACTS is controlled and is evaluated using a robustness index named the capacity margin. Experiments are performed with optimal, suboptimal, and wrench infeasible configurations. It is shown that configurations near the point of zero capacity margin allow the ACTS to hover but not to follow dynamic trajectories, and that the ACTS cannot fly with a negative capacity margin. Dynamic tests of the ACTS show the effects of the configuration on the achievable accelerations.


Title: Optimal Proactive Path Planning for Collaborative Robots in Industrial Contexts
Abstract: The coexistence of humans and robots in the future production plants is one of the pillars of Industry 4.0. Humans and robots will collaborate to accomplish common tasks in order to mutually compensate their deficiencies. In recent years, many efforts have been spent to develop safe motion planning strategies, designed to prevent robots from injuring humans. Most of the previous techniques are classifiable as reactive, since the considered motion controllers impose some local corrective actions in order to dodge the space occupied by the human. In this paper, a proactive approach is adopted, optimizing robotic paths according to a prediction of the volume occupied by the human when collaborating with the robot. The validity of the approach is shown in a realistic use-case involving the collaboration of a human operator with a 7 degrees robotic arm, the ABB YuMi.


Title: 2D LiDAR Map Prediction via Estimating Motion Flow with GRU
Abstract: It is a significant problem to predict the 2D LiDAR map at next moment for robotics navigation and path-planning. To tackle this problem, we resort to the motion flow between adjacent maps, as motion flow is a powerful tool to process and analyze the dynamic data, which is named optical flow in video processing. However, unlike video, which contains abundant visual features in each frame, a 2D LiDAR map lacks distinctive local features. To alleviate this challenge, we propose to estimate the motion flow based on deep neural networks inspired by its powerful representation learning ability in estimating the optical flow of the video. To this end, we design a recurrent neural network based on gated recurrent unit, which is named LiDAR-FlowNet. As a recurrent neural network can encode the temporal dynamic information, our LiDAR-FlowNet can estimate motion flow between the current map and the unknown next map only from the current frame and previous frames. A self-supervised strategy is further designed to train the LiDAR-FlowNet model effectively, while no training data need to be manually annotated. With the estimated motion flow, it is straightforward to predict the 2D LiDAR map at the next moment. Experimental results verify the effectiveness of our LiDAR-FlowNet as well as the proposed training strategy. The results of the predicted LiDAR map also show the advantages of our motion flow based method.


Title: Interaction-aware Multi-agent Tracking and Probabilistic Behavior Prediction via Adversarial Learning
Abstract: In order to enable high-quality decision making and motion planning of intelligent systems such as robotics and autonomous vehicles, accurate probabilistic predictions for surrounding interactive objects is a crucial prerequisite. Although many research studies have been devoted to making predictions on a single entity, it remains an open challenge to forecast future behaviors for multiple interactive agents simultaneously. In this work, we take advantage of the Generative Adversarial Network (GAN) due to its capability of distribution learning and propose a generic multi-agent probabilistic prediction and tracking framework which takes the interactions among multiple entities into account, in which all the entities are treated as a whole. However, since GAN is very hard to train, we make an empirical research and present the relationship between training performance and hyperparameter values with a numerical case study. The results imply that the proposed model can capture both the mean, variance and multi-modalities of the groundtruth distribution. Moreover, we apply the proposed approach to a real-world task of vehicle behavior prediction to demonstrate its effectiveness and accuracy. The results illustrate that the proposed model trained by adversarial learning can achieve a better prediction performance than other state-of-the-art models trained by traditional supervised learning which maximizes the data likelihood. The well-trained model can also be utilized as an implicit proposal distribution for particle filtered based Bayesian state estimation.


Title: A Hierarchical Framework for Coordinating Large-Scale Robot Networks
Abstract: In this paper, we study the cooperative path planning and motion coordination problems of the multi-robot system with large number of robots, aiming for practical applications in robotic warehouses and automated transportation systems. Particularly, we solve the life-long planning problem and guarantee the coordination performance in the presence of robot motion uncertainties. A hierarchical path planning and motion coordination structure is presented. The environment is divided into several sectors and a traffic heat-map is presented to describe the current sector-level traffic condition. In path planning level, the sector-level path is calculated by considering the path distance, the current traffic condition and the current robot uncertainty. In motion coordination level, local cooperative A* algorithm and conflict-based searching strategy are utilized within each sector to generate the collision-free local path of each robot in a rolling planning manner. The effectiveness and practical applicability of the proposed approach are validated by simulations with more than one thousand robots and real experiments.


Title: A Benchmarking Framework for Systematic Evaluation of Robotic Pick-and-Place Systems in an Industrial Grocery Setting
Abstract: Robotic manipulation is a very active field of research nowadays; however, pick-and-place operations constitute the majority of today's industrial robotic applications. In order to adopt a robotic solution for an industrial setting, proper evaluation processes should be defined to assess the system's performance. A number of benchmarks have been proposed in the literature focusing mainly on individual components needed to perform the task, like grasping, perception and motion planning; thus, they do not provide enough information on the performance of the entire robotic system. To address this, we propose a benchmarking framework for a pick-and-place task inspired by a use case for picking fruits and vegetables in an industrial setting. To foster reproducible research and comparison of different robotic systems, the benchmarking framework uses surrogate objects with instructions on how to build them, an easy-to-reproduce environment, and guidelines for object placement. The proposed benchmark is applied to evaluate the performance of two variants of a robotic system with different end-effectors.


Title: Active Multi-Contact Continuous Tactile Exploration with Gaussian Process Differential Entropy
Abstract: In the present work, we propose an active tactile exploration framework to obtain a surface model of an unknown object utilizing multiple contacts simultaneously. To incorporate these multiple contacts, the exploration strategy is based on the differential entropy of the underlying Gaussian process implicit surface model, which formalizes the exploration with multiple contacts within an information theoretic context and additionally allows for nonmyopic multi-step planning. In contrast to many previous approaches, the robot continuously slides along the surface with its end-effectors to gather the tactile stimuli, instead of touching it at discrete locations. This is realized by closely integrating the surface model into the compliant controller framework. Furthermore, we extend our recently proposed sliding based tactile exploration approach to handle non-convex objects. In the experiments, it is shown that multiple contacts simultaneously leads to a more efficient exploration of complex, non-convex objects, not only in terms of time, but also with respect to the total moved distance of all end-effectors. Finally, we demonstrate our methodology with a real PR2 robot that explores an object with both of its arms.


Title: Incremental Learning of Spatial-Temporal Features in Human Motion Patterns with Mixture Model for Planning Motion of a Collaborative Robot in Assembly Lines
Abstract: Collaborative robots are expected to work in cooperation with humans to improve productivity and maintain the quality of products. In the previous study, we have proposed an incremental learning system for adaptively scheduling a motion of the collaborative robot based on a worker's behavior. Although this system could model the worker's motion pattern precisely and robustly without collecting the worker's data in advance, it required two different models for modeling the worker's spatial and temporal features respectively and was not well considered for generalization. In this paper, we extend the previous incremental learning system by integrating the spatial and temporal models using a mixture model. In addition, we install a new incremental learning algorithm which improves a generalization capability of the mixture model and avoids overfitting in the situation where the prior information is limited. Implementing the proposed algorithm, we evaluate the effectiveness of the proposed system by experiments for several workers and for several assembly processes.


Title: UAV/UGV Autonomous Cooperation: UAV assists UGV to climb a cliff by attaching a tether
Abstract: This paper proposes a novel cooperative system for an Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV) and an Unmanned Ground Vehicle (UGV) which utilizes the UAV not only as a flying sensor but also as a tether attachment device. Two robots are connected with a tether, allowing the UAV to anchor the tether to a structure located at the top of a steep terrain, impossible to reach for UGVs. Thus, enhancing the poor traversability of the UGV by not only providing a wider range of scanning and mapping from the air, but also by allowing the UGV to climb steep terrains with the winding of the tether. In addition, we present an autonomous framework for the collaborative navigation and tether attachment in an unknown environment. The UAV employs visual inertial navigation with 3D voxel mapping and obstacle avoidance planning. The UGV makes use of the voxel map and generates an elevation map to execute path planning based on a traversability analysis. Furthermore, we compared the pros and cons of possible methods for the tether anchoring from multiple points of view. To increase the probability of successful anchoring, we evaluated the anchoring strategy with an experiment. Finally, the feasibility and capability of our proposed system were demonstrated by an autonomous mission experiment in the field with an obstacle and a cliff.


Title: Air-to-Ground Surveillance Using Predictive Pursuit
Abstract: This paper introduces a probabilistic prediction model with a novel variant of the Markov decision process to improve tracking time and location detection accuracy in an air-to-ground robot surveillance scenario. While most surveillance algorithms focus mainly on controls of an unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV) and camera for faster tracking of an unmanned ground vehicle (UGV), this paper proposes a way of minimizing detection and tracking time by applying a prediction model to the first observed path taken by the UGV. We present a pursuit algorithm that addresses the problem of target (UGV) localization by combining prediction of used planning algorithm by the target, and application of the same planning algorithm to predict future trajectories. Our results show a high predictive accuracy based on a final position attained by the target and the location predicted by our model.


Title: Online Planning for Target Object Search in Clutter under Partial Observability
Abstract: The problem of finding and grasping a target object in a cluttered, uncertain environment, target object search, is a common and important problem in robotics. One key challenge is the uncertainty of locating and recognizing each object in a cluttered environment due to noisy perception and occlusions. Furthermore, the uncertainty in localization makes manipulation difficult and uncertain. To cope with these challenges, we formulate the target object search task as a partially observable Markov decision process (POMDP), enabling the robot to reason about perceptual and manipulation uncertainty while searching. To further address the manipulation difficulty, we propose Parameterized Action Partially Observable Monte-Carlo Planning (PA-POMCP), an algorithm that evaluates manipulation actions by taking into account the effect of the robot's current belief on the success of the action execution. In addition, a novel run-time initial belief generator and a state value estimator are introduced in this paper to facilitate the PA-POMCP algorithm. Our experiments show that our methods solve the target object search task in settings where simpler methods either take more object movements or fail.


Title: Pavilion: Bridging Photo-Realism and Robotics
Abstract: Simulation environments play a centric role in the research of sensor fusion and robot control. This paper presents Pavilion, a novel open-source simulation system, for robot perception and kinematic control based on the Unreal Engine and the Robot Operating System (ROS). The novelty of this work includes threefold: (1) developing a shader-based method to generate optical flow ground-truth data with the Unreal Engine, (2) developing a toolset to remove binary incompatibility between ROS and the Unreal Engine to enable real-time interaction, and (3) developing a method to directly import Simulation Description Format (SDF) robot models into the Unreal Engine at runtime. Finally, a Gazebo-compatible real-time simulation system is developed to enable training and evaluation of a large number of sensor fusion, planning, decision and control algorithms. The system can be implemented on both Linux and macOS, with the latest version of ROS. Various experiments have been performed to validate the superior performance of the proposed simulation environment over other state-of-the-art simulators in terms of number of modalities, simulation accuracy, latency and degree of integration difficulty.


Title: CHiMP: A Contact based Hilbert Map Planner
Abstract: This work presents a new contact-based 3D path planning approach for manipulators using robot skin. We make use of the Stochastic Functional Gradient Path Planner, extending it to the 3D case, and assess its usefulness in combination with multi-modal robot skin. Our proposed algorithm is verified on a 6 DOF robot arm that has been covered with multi-modal robot skin. The experimental platform is combined with a skin based compliant controller, making the robot inherently reactive. We implement different state-of-the-art planners within our contact-based robot system to compare their performance under the same conditions. In this way, all the planners use the same skin compliant control during evaluation. Furthermore, we extend the stochastic planner with tactile-based explorative behavior to improve its performance, especially for unknown environments. We show that CHiMP is able to outperform state of the art algorithms when working with skin-based sparse contact data.


Title: Support Surface Estimation for Legged Robots
Abstract: The high agility of legged systems allows them to operate in rugged outdoor environments. In these situations, knowledge about the terrain geometry is key for foothold planning to enable safe locomotion. However, on penetrable or highly compliant terrain (e.g. grass) the visibility of the supporting ground surface is obstructed, i.e. it cannot directly be perceived by depth sensors. We present a method to estimate the underlying terrain topography by fusing haptic information about foot contact closure locations with exteroceptive sensing. To obtain a dense support surface estimate from sparsely sampled footholds we apply Gaussian process regression. Exteroceptive information is integrated into the support surface estimation procedure by estimating the height of the penetrable surface layer from discrete penetration depth measurements at the footholds. The method is designed such that it provides a continuous support surface estimate even if there is only partial exteroceptive information available due to shadowing effects. Field experiments with the quadrupedal robot ANYmal show how the robot can smoothly and safely navigate in dense vegetation.


Title: ALMA - Articulated Locomotion and Manipulation for a Torque-Controllable Robot
Abstract: The task of robotic mobile manipulation poses several scientific challenges that need to be addressed to execute complex manipulation tasks in unstructured environments, in which collaboration with humans might be required. Therefore, we present ALMA, a motion planning and control framework for a torque-controlled quadrupedal robot equipped with a six degrees of freedom robotic arm capable of performing dynamic locomotion while executing manipulation tasks. The online motion planning framework, together with a whole-body controller based on a hierarchical optimization algorithm, enables the system to walk, trot and pace while executing operational space end-effector control, reactive human-robot collaboration and torso posture optimization to increase the arm's workspace. The torque control of the whole system enables the implementation of compliant behavior, allowing a user to safely interact with the robot. We verify our framework on the real robot by performing tasks such as opening a door and carrying a payload together with a human.


Title: Trajectory Planning for a Tractor with Multiple Trailers in Extremely Narrow Environments: A Unified Approach*
Abstract: Trajectory planning for a tractor-trailer vehicle is challenging because the vehicle kinematics consists of underactuated and nonholonomic constraints that are highly coupled. Prevalent sampling-based or search-based planners suitable for rigid-body vehicles are not capable of handling the tractor-trailer vehicle cases. This work aims to deal with generic n-trailer cases in the tiny environments. To this end, an optimal control problem is formulated, which is beneficial in being accurate, straightforward, and unified. An adaptively homotopic warm-starting approach is proposed to facilitate the numerical solution process of the formulated optimal control problem. Compared with the existing sequential warm starting strategies, our proposal can adaptively define the subproblems with the purpose of making the gaps between adjacent subproblems “pleasant” for the solver. Unification and efficiency of the proposed adaptively homotopic warm-starting approach have been investigated in several extremely tiny scenarios. Our planner finds solutions that other existing planners cannot. Online planning opportunities are briefly discussed as well.


Title: Orientation-Aware Motion Planning in Complex Workspaces using Adaptive Harmonic Potential Fields
Abstract: In this work, a hybrid control scheme is presented in order to address the navigation problem for a planar robotic platform of arbitrary shape that is moving inside an obstacle cluttered workspace. Given an initial and desired robot configuration, we propose a methodology based on approximate configuration space decomposition techniques that makes use of heuristics to adaptively refine a partition of the configuration space into non-overlapping, adjacent slices. Furthermore, we employ appropriate workspace transformations and adaptive potential field based control laws that integrate elegantly with the type of configuration space representation used, in order to safely navigate within a given cell and successfully cross over to the next, for almost all initial configurations, until the desired configuration is reached. Finally, we present simulation results that demonstrate the efficacy of the proposed control scheme.


Title: Energy-Aware Temporal Logic Motion Planning for Mobile Robots
Abstract: This paper presents a methodology for synthesizing a motion plan for a mobile robot to ensure that the robot never gets depleted with battery charge while carrying out its mission successfully. The specification of the robot is provided in the form of an LTL (Linear Temporal Logic) formula. A trajectory satisfying an LTL formula may contain a loop whose repetitive execution causes the depletion of battery charge in the robot. The motion plan generated by our methodology ensures that the robot visits the charging station periodically in such a way that it never gets depleted with battery charge while carrying out its mission optimally. Given a set of potential charging station locations and an LTL specification, our algorithm also finds the best location for the charging station along with the optimal trajectory for the robot. We encode the motion planning problem as an SMT (Satisfiability Modulo Theory) solving problem and use the off-the-shelf SMT solver Z3 to solve the constraints to find the location of the charging station and generate an optimal trajectory for the robot. We apply our methodology to synthesize energy-aware trajectories for robots with different dynamics in various workspaces and for various LTL specifications.


Title: Using Local Experiences for Global Motion Planning
Abstract: Sampling-based planners are effective in many real-world applications such as robotics manipulation, navigation, and even protein modeling. However, it is often challenging to generate a collision-free path in environments where key areas are hard to sample. In the absence of any prior information, sampling-based planners are forced to explore uniformly or heuristically, which can lead to degraded performance. One way to improve performance is to use prior knowledge of environments to adapt the sampling strategy to the problem at hand. In this work, we decompose the workspace into local primitives, memorizing local experiences by these primitives in the form of local samplers, and store them in a database. We synthesize an efficient global sampler by retrieving local experiences relevant to the given situation. Our method transfers knowledge effectively between diverse environments that share local primitives and speeds up the performance dramatically. Our results show, in terms of solution time, an improvement of multiple orders of magnitude in two traditionally challenging high-dimensional problems compared to state-of-the-art approaches.


Title: DMP Based Trajectory Tracking for a Nonholonomic Mobile Robot With Automatic Goal Adaptation and Obstacle Avoidance
Abstract: Dynamic Movement Primitive (DMP) which is popular for motion planning of a robot manipulator, has been adapted for a nonholonomic mobile robot to track the desired trajectory. DMP is a simple damped spring model with a forcing function, which learns the trajectory. The damped spring model attracts the robot towards the goal position, and the forcing function forces the robot to follow the given trajectory. Two Radial Basis Function Networks (RBFNs) have been used to learn the forcing function associated with the DMP model. Weight update laws are derived using the gradient descent approach to train the RBFNs. Fuzzy logic based steering angle dynamics is proposed to handle the asymmetric nature of an obstacle. The proposed scheme is capable enough to generate a smooth trajectory in the presence of an obstacle even when start and goal positions are altered, without losing the spatial information embedded while training. The convergence of the robot goal position has been shown using Lyapunov stability theory-based analysis. The approach has been extended to multiple static and dynamic obstacles for the successful convergence of the robot at the goal position. Both simulation and experimental results are provided to confirm the efficacy of the proposed scheme.


Title: Kinematic Constraints Based Bi-directional RRT (KB-RRT) with Parameterized Trajectories for Robot Path Planning in Cluttered Environment
Abstract: Optimal path planning and smooth trajectory planning are critical for effective navigation of mobile robots working towards accomplishing complex missions. For autonomous, real time and extended operations of mobile robots, the navigation capability needs to be executed at the edge. Thus, efficient compute, minimum memory utilization and smooth trajectory are the key parameters that drive the successful operation of autonomous mobile robots. Traditionally, navigation solutions focus on developing robust path planning algorithms which are complex and compute/memory intensive. Bidirectional-RRT(Bi-RRT) based path planning algorithms have gained increased attention due to their effectiveness and computational efficiency in generating feasible paths. However, these algorithms neither optimize memory nor guarantee smooth trajectories. To this end, we propose a kinematically constrained Bi-RRT (KB-RRT) algorithm, which restricts the number of nodes generated without compromising on the accuracy and incorporates kinodynamic constraints for generating smooth trajectories, together resulting in efficient navigation of autonomous mobile robots. The proposed algorithm is tested in a highly cluttered environment on an Ackermannsteering vehicle model with severe kinematic constraints. The experimental results demonstrate that KB-RRT achieves three times (3 X) better performance in terms of convergence rate and memory utilization compared to a standard Bi-RRT algorithm.


Title: Predicting Vehicle Behaviors Over An Extended Horizon Using Behavior Interaction Network
Abstract: Anticipating possible behaviors of traffic participants is an essential capability of autonomous vehicles. Many behavior detection and maneuver recognition methods only have a very limited prediction horizon that leaves inadequate time and space for planning. To avoid unsatisfactory reactive decisions, it is essential to count long-term future rewards in planning, which requires extending the prediction horizon. In this paper, we uncover that clues to vehicle behaviors over an extended horizon can be found in vehicle interaction, which makes it possible to anticipate the likelihood of a certain behavior, even in the absence of any clear maneuver pattern. We adopt a recurrent neural network (RNN) for observation encoding, and based on that, we propose a novel vehicle behavior interaction network (VBIN) to capture the vehicle interaction from the hidden states and connection feature of each interaction pair. The output of our method is a probabilistic likelihood of multiple behavior classes, which matches the multimodal and uncertain nature of the distant future. A systematic comparison of our method against two state-of-the-art methods and another two baseline methods on a publicly available real highway dataset is provided, showing that our method has superior accuracy and advanced capability for interaction modeling.


Title: OVPC Mesh: 3D Free-space Representation for Local Ground Vehicle Navigation
Abstract: This paper presents a novel approach for local 3D environment representation for autonomous unmanned ground vehicle (UGV) navigation called On Visible Point Clouds Mesh (OVPC Mesh). Our approach represents the surrounding of the robot as a watertight 3D mesh generated from local point cloud data in order to represent the free space surrounding the robot. It is a conservative estimation of the free space and provides a desirable trade-off between representation precision and computational efficiency, without having to discretize the environment into a fixed grid size. Our experiments analyze the usability of the approach for UGV navigation in rough terrain, both in simulation and in a fully integrated real-world system. Additionally, we compare our approach to well-known state-of the-art solutions, such as Octomap and Elevation Mapping and show that OVPC Mesh can provide reliable 3D information for trajectory planning while fulfilling real-time constraints.


Title: Attention-based Lane Change Prediction
Abstract: Lane change prediction of surrounding vehicles is a key building block of path planning. The focus has been on increasing the accuracy of prediction by posing it purely as a function estimation problem at the cost of model understandability. However, the efficacy of any lane change prediction model can be improved when both corner and failure cases are humanly understandable. We propose an attention-based recurrent model to tackle both understandability and prediction quality. We also propose metrics which reflect the discomfort felt by the driver. We show encouraging results on a publicly available dataset and proprietary fleet data.


Title: Towards 3D Path Planning from a Single 2D Fluoroscopic Image for Robot Assisted Fenestrated Endovascular Aortic Repair
Abstract: The current standard of intra-operative navigation during Fenestrated Endovascular Aortic Repair (FEVAR) calls for the need of 3D alignments between inserted devices and aortic branches. The navigation commonly via 2D fluoroscopic images, lacks anatomical information, resulting in longer operation hours and radiation exposure. In this paper, a skeleton instantiation framework of Abdominal Aortic Aneurysm (AAA) from a single 2D fluoroscopic image is introduced for real-time 3D robotic path planning. A graph matching method is proposed to establish the correspondences between the 3D preoperative and 2D intra-operative AAA skeletons, and then the two skeletons are registered by skeleton deformation and regularization in respect to skeleton length and smoothness. Furthermore, deep learning was used to segment 3D preoperative AAA from Computed Tomography (CT) scans to facilitate the framework automation. Simulation, phantom and patient AAA data sets have been used to validate the proposed framework. 3D distance error of 2mm was achieved in the phantom setup. Performance advantages were also achieved in terms of accuracy, robustness and time-efficiency.


Title: Tree Search Techniques for Minimizing Detectability and Maximizing Visibility
Abstract: We introduce and study the problem of planning a trajectory for an agent to carry out a reconnaissance mission while avoiding being detected by an adversarial guard. This introduces a multi-objective version of classical visibility-based target search and pursuit-evasion problem. In our formulation, the agent receives a positive reward for increasing its visibility (by exploring new regions) and a negative penalty every time it is detected by the guard. The objective is to find a finite-horizon path for the agent that balances the trade off between maximizing visibility and minimizing detectability.We model this problem as a discrete, sequential, two-player, zero-sum game. We use two types of game tree search algorithms to solve this problem: minimax search tree and Monte-Carlo search tree. Both search trees can yield the optimal policy but may require possibly exponential computational time and space. We propose several pruning techniques to reduce the computational cost while still preserving optimality guarantees. Simulation results show that the proposed strategy prunes approximately three orders of magnitude nodes as compared to the brute-force strategy. We also find that the Monte-Carlo search tree saves approximately one order of computational time as compared to the minimax search tree.


Title: Chance Constrained Motion Planning for High-Dimensional Robots
Abstract: This paper introduces Probabilistic Chekov (p-Chekov), a chance-constrained motion planning system that can be applied to high degree-of-freedom (DOF) robots under motion uncertainty and imperfect state information. Given process and observation noise models, it can find feasible trajectories which satisfy a user-specified bound over the probability of collision. Leveraging our previous work in deterministic motion planning which integrated trajectory optimization into a sparse roadmap framework, p-Chekov shows superiority in its planning speed for high-dimensional tasks. P-Chekov incorporates a linear-quadratic Gaussian motion planning approach into the estimation of the robot state probability distribution, applies quadrature theories to waypoint collision risk estimation, and adapts risk allocation approaches to assign allowable probabilities of failure among waypoints. Unlike other existing risk-aware planners, p-Chekov can be applied to high-DOF robotic planning tasks without the convexification of the environment. The experiment results in this paper show that this p-Chekov system can effectively reduce collision risk and satisfy user-specified chance constraints in typical real-world planning scenarios for high-DOF robots.


Title: Complete and Near-Optimal Path Planning for Simultaneous Sensor-Based Inspection and Footprint Coverage in Robotic Crack Filling
Abstract: A simultaneous robotic footprint and sensor coverage planning scheme is proposed to efficiently detect all the unknown targets with range sensors and cover the targets with the robot's footprint in a structured environment. The proposed online Sensor-based Complete Coverage (online SCC) planning minimizes the total traveling distance of the robot, guarantees the complete sensor coverage of the whole free space, and achieves near-optimal footprint coverage of all the targets. The planning strategy is applied to a crack-filling robotic prototype to detect and fill all the unknown cracks on ground surfaces. Simulation and experimental results are presented that confirm the efficiency and effectiveness of the proposed online planning algorithm.


Title: Approximate Stability Analysis for Drystacked Structures
Abstract: We introduce a fast approximate stability analysis into an automated dry stacking procedure. Evaluating structural stability is essential for any type of construction, but especially challenging in techniques where building elements remain distinct and do not use fasteners or adhesives. Due to the irregular shape of construction materials, autonomous agents have restricted knowledge of contact geometry, which makes existing analysis tools difficult to deploy. In this paper, a geometric safety factor called kern is used to estimate how much the contact interface can shrink and the structure still be feasible, where feasibility can be checked efficiently using linear programming. We validate the stability measure by comparing the proposed methods with a fully simulated shaking test in 2D. We also improve existing heuristics-based planning by adding the proposed measure into the assembly process.


Title: Visual Robot Task Planning
Abstract: Prospection is key to solving challenging problems in new environments, but it has not been deeply explored as applied to task planning for perception-driven robotics. We propose visual robot task planning, where we take in an input image and must generate a sequence of high-level actions and associated observations that achieve some task. In this paper, we describe a neural network architecture and associated planning algorithm that (1) learns a representation of the world that can generate prospective futures, (2) uses this generative model to simulate the result of sequences of high-level actions in a variety of environments, and (3) evaluates these actions via a variant of Monte Carlo Tree Search to find a viable solution to a particular problem. Our approach allows us to visualize intermediate motion goals and learn to plan complex activity from visual information, and used this to generate and visualize task plans on held-out examples of a block-stacking simulation.


Title: Towards Blended Reactive Planning and Acting using Behavior Trees
Abstract: In this paper, we show how a planning algorithm can be used to automatically create and update a Behavior Tree (BT), controlling a robot in a dynamic environment. The planning part of the algorithm is based on the idea of back chaining. Starting from a goal condition we iteratively select actions to achieve that goal, and if those actions have unmet preconditions, they are extended with actions to achieve them in the same way. The fact that BTs are inherently modular and reactive makes the proposed solution blend acting and planning in a way that enables the robot to effectively react to external disturbances. If an external agent undoes an action the robot reexecutes it without re-planning, and if an external agent helps the robot, it skips the corresponding actions, again without replanning. We illustrate our approach in two different robotics scenarios.


Title: Visual Representations for Semantic Target Driven Navigation
Abstract: What is a good visual representation for navigation? We study this question in the context of semantic visual navigation, which is the problem of a robot finding its way through a previously unseen environment to a target object, e.g. go to the refrigerator. Instead of acquiring a metric semantic map of an environment and using planning for navigation, our approach learns navigation policies on top of representations that capture spatial layout and semantic contextual cues. We propose to use semantic segmentation and detection masks as observations obtained by state-of-the-art computer vision algorithms and use a deep network to learn the navigation policy. The availability of equitable representations in simulated environments enables joint training using real and simulated data and alleviates the need for domain adaptation or domain randomization commonly used to tackle the sim-to-real transfer of the learned policies. Both the representation and the navigation policy can be readily applied to real non-synthetic environments as demonstrated on the Active Vision Dataset [1]. Our approach successfully gets to the target in 54% of the cases in unexplored environments, compared to 46% for a non-learning based approach, and 28% for a learning-based baseline.


Title: Online Multilayered Motion Planning with Dynamic Constraints for Autonomous Underwater Vehicles
Abstract: Underwater robots are subject to complex hydro-dynamic forces. These forces define how the vehicle moves, so it is important to consider them when planning trajectories. However, performing motion planning considering the dynamics on the robot's onboard computer is challenging due to the limited computational resources available. In this paper an efficient motion planning framework for autonomous underwater vehicles (AUVs) is presented. By introducing a loosely coupled multilayered planning design, our framework is able to generate dynamically feasible trajectories while keeping the planning time low enough for online planning. First, a fast path planner operating in a lower-dimensional projected space computes a lead path from the start to the goal configuration. Then, the lead path is used to bias the sampling of a second motion planner, which takes into account all the dynamic constraints. Furthermore, we propose a strategy for online planning that saves computational resources by generating the final trajectory only up to a finite horizon. By using the finite horizon strategy together with the multilayered approach, the sampling of the second planner focuses on regions where good quality solutions are more likely to be found, significantly reducing the planning time. To provide strong safety guarantees our framework also incorporates the conservative approximations of inevitable collision states (icss). finally, we present simulations and experiments using a real underwater robot to demonstrate the capabilities of our framework.


Title: Robotic Orientation Control of Deformable Cells
Abstract: Robotic manipulation of deformable objects (vs. rigid objects) has been a classic topic in robotics. Compared to deformable synthetic objects such as rubber balls and clothes, biological cells are highly deformable and more prone to damage. This paper presents robotic manipulation of deformable cells for orientation control (both out-of-plane and in-plane), which is required in both clinical (e.g., in vitro fertilization) and biomedical (e.g., clone) applications. Compared to manual cell rotation control based on empirical experience, the robotic approach, based on mathematical modeling and path planning, effectively rotates a cell while consistently maintaining minimal cell deformation to avoid cell damage. A force model is established to determine the minimal force applied by the micropipette to rotate a spherical or more generally, an ellipsoidal mouse oocyte. The force information is translated into indentation through a contact mechanics model, and the manipulation path of the micropipette is formed by connecting the indentation positions on the oocyte. A compensation controller is designed to compensate for the variations of mechanical properties across cells. The polar body of an oocyte is detected by deep neural networks with robustness to shape and size differences. Experimental results demonstrate that the system achieved an accuracy of 97.6% in polar body detection and an accuracy of 0.7° in oocyte orientation control with maximum oocyte deformation of 2.69 μm.


Title: Combined Task and Motion Planning under Partial Observability: An Optimization-Based Approach
Abstract: We propose a novel approach to Combined Task and Motion Planning (TAMP) under partial observability. Previous optimization-based TAMP methods [1][2] compute optimal plans and paths assuming full observability. However, partial observability requires the solution to be a policy that reacts to the observations that the agent receives. We consider a formulation where observations introduce additional branching in the symbolic decision tree. The solution is now given by a reactive policy on the symbolic level together with a path tree that describes the branchings of optimal motion depending on the observations. Our method works in two stages: First, the symbolic policy is optimized using approximate path costs estimated from independent optimizations of trajectory pieces. Second, we fix the best symbolic policy and optimize a joint trajectory tree. We test our approach on object manipulation and autonomous driving examples. We also compare the algorithm's performance to a state-of-the-art TAMP planner in fully observable cases.


Title: Towards Robust Product Packing with a Minimalistic End-Effector
Abstract: Advances in sensor technologies, object detection algorithms, planning frameworks and hardware designs have motivated the deployment of robots in warehouse automation. A variety of such applications, like order fulfillment or packing tasks, require picking objects from unstructured piles and carefully arranging them in bins or containers. Desirable solutions need to be low-cost, easily deployable and controllable, making minimalistic hardware choices desirable. The challenge in designing an effective solution to this problem relates to appropriately integrating multiple components, so as to achieve a robust pipeline that minimizes failure conditions. The current work proposes a complete pipeline for solving such packing tasks, given access only to RGB-D data and a single robot arm with a vacuum-based end-effector, which is also used as a pushing finger. To achieve the desired level of robustness, three key manipulation primitives are identified, which take advantage of the environment and simple operations to successfully pack multiple cubic objects. The overall approach is demonstrated to be robust to execution and perception errors. The impact of each manipulation primitive is evaluated by considering different versions of the proposed pipeline, which incrementally introduce reasoning about object poses and corrective manipulation actions.


Title: Multi-Robot Region-of-Interest Reconstruction with Dec-MCTS
Abstract: We consider the problem of reconstructing regions of interest of a scene using multiple robot arms and RGB-D sensors. This problem is motivated by a variety of applications, such as precision agriculture and infrastructure inspection. A viewpoint evaluation function is presented that exploits predicted observations and the geometry of the scene. A recently proposed non-myopic planning algorithm, Decentralised Monte Carlo tree search, is used to coordinate the actions of the robot arms. Motion planning is performed over a navigation graph that considers the high-dimensional configuration space of the robot arms. Extensive simulated experiments are carried out using real sensor data and then validated on hardware with two robot arms. Our proposed targeted information gain planner is compared to state-of-the-art baselines and outperforms them in every measured metric. The robots quickly observe and accurately detect fruit in a trellis structure, demonstrating the viability of the approach for real-world applications.


Title: Search-based 3D Planning and Trajectory Optimization for Safe Micro Aerial Vehicle Flight Under Sensor Visibility Constraints
Abstract: Safe navigation of Micro Aerial Vehicles (MAVs) requires not only obstacle-free flight paths according to a static environment map, but also the perception of and reaction to previously unknown and dynamic objects. This implies that the onboard sensors cover the current flight direction. Due to the limited payload of MAVs, full sensor coverage of the environment has to be traded off with flight time. Thus, often only a part of the environment is covered. We present a combined allocentric complete planning and trajectory optimization approach taking these sensor visibility constraints into account. The optimized trajectories yield flight paths within the apex angle of a Velodyne Puck Lite 3D laser scanner enabling low-level collision avoidance to perceive obstacles in the flight direction. Furthermore, the optimized trajectories take the flight dynamics into account and contain the velocities and accelerations along the path. We evaluate our approach with a DJI Matrice 600 MAV and in simulation employing hardware-in-the-loop.


Title: Networked Operation of a UAV Using Gaussian Process-Based Delay Compensation and Model Predictive Control
Abstract: This study addresses an operation of unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs) in a network environment where there is time-varying network delay. The network delay entails undesirable effects on the stability of the UAV control system due to delayed state feedback and outdated control input. Although several networked control algorithms have been proposed to deal with the network delay, most existing studies have assumed that the plant dynamics is known and simple, or the network delay is constant. These assumptions are improper to multirotor-type UAVs because of their nonlinearity and time-sensitive characteristics. To deal with these problems, we propose a networked control system using model predictive control (MPC) designed under the consideration of multirotor characteristics. We also apply a Gaussian process (GP) to learn an unknown nonlinear model, which increases the accuracy of path planning and state estimation. Flight experiments show that the proposed algorithm successfully compensates the network delay and Gaussian process learning improves the UAV's path tracking performance.


Title: Visual Repetition Sampling for Robot Manipulation Planning
Abstract: One of the main challenges in sampling-based motion planners is to find an efficient sampling strategy. While methods such as Rapidly-exploring Random Tree (RRT) have shown to be more reliable in complex environments than optimization-based methods, they often require longer planning times, which reduces their usability for real-time applications. Recently, biased sampling methods have shown to remedy this issue. For example Gaussian Mixture Models (GMMs) have been used to sample more efficiently in feasible regions of the configuration space. Once the GMM is learned, however, this approach does not adapt its biases to individual planning scene during inference. Hence, we propose in this work a more efficient sampling strategy to further bias the GMM based on visual input upon query. We employ an autoencoder trained entirely in simulation to extract features from depth images and use the latent representation to adjust the weights of each mixture components in the GMM. We show empirically that this improves the sampling efficiency of an RRT motion planner in both real and simulated scenes.


Title: Improving Underwater Obstacle Detection using Semantic Image Segmentation
Abstract: This paper presents two novel approaches for improving image-based underwater obstacle detection by combining sparse stereo point clouds with monocular semantic image segmentation. Generating accurate image-based obstacle maps in cluttered underwater environments, such as coral reefs, are essential for robust robotic path planning and navigation. However, these maps can be challenged by factors including visibility, lighting and dynamic objects (e.g. fish) that may lead to falsely identified free space or dynamic objects which trajectory planners may react to undesirably. We propose combining feature-based stereo matching with learning-based segmentation to produce a more robust obstacle map. This approach considers direct binary learning of the presence or absence of underwater obstacles, as well as a multiclass learning approach to classify their distance (near, mid and far) in the scene. An enhancement to the binary map is also shown by including depth information from sparse stereo matching to produce 3D obstacle maps of the scene. The performance is evaluated using field data collected in cluttered, and at times, visually degraded coral reef environments. The results show improved image-wide obstacle detection, rejection of transient objects (such as fish), and range estimation compared to feature-based sparse and dense stereo point clouds alone.


Title: Hierarchical Game-Theoretic Planning for Autonomous Vehicles
Abstract: The actions of an autonomous vehicle on the road affect and are affected by those of other drivers, whether overtaking, negotiating a merge, or avoiding an accident. This mutual dependence, best captured by dynamic game theory, creates a strong coupling between the vehicle's planning and its predictions of other drivers' behavior, and constitutes an open problem with direct implications on the safety and viability of autonomous driving technology. Unfortunately, dynamic games are too computationally demanding to meet the real-time constraints of autonomous driving in its continuous state and action space. In this paper, we introduce a novel game-theoretic trajectory planning algorithm for autonomous driving, that enables real-time performance by hierarchically decomposing the underlying dynamic game into a long-horizon “strategic” game with simplified dynamics and full information structure, and a short-horizon “tactical” game with full dynamics and a simplified information structure. The value of the strategic game is used to guide the tactical planning, implicitly extending the planning horizon, pushing the local trajectory optimization closer to global solutions, and, most importantly, quantitatively accounting for the autonomous vehicle and the human driver's ability and incentives to influence each other. In addition, our approach admits non-deterministic models of human decision-making, rather than relying on perfectly rational predictions. Our results showcase richer, safer, and more effective autonomous behavior in comparison to existing techniques.


Title: A Motion Planning Scheme for Cooperative Loading Using Heterogeneous Robotic Agents
Abstract: In this work, we present a decentralized motion planning and control architecture for the cooperative loading task using heterogeneous robotic agents operating in a cluttered workspace with static obstacles. Initially, we tackle the problem of calculating a set of feasible loading configurations via a Probabilistic Road Maps technique. Next, an optimal loading configuration is selected considering the connectivity of the space and the Euclidean distance between the robotic agents. A motion control scheme for each agent is designed and implemented in order to autonomously guide each robot to the desired loading configuration with guaranteed obstacle avoidance and convergence properties. The performance and the applicability of the proposed strategy is experimentally verified in a variety of loading scenarios using a redundant static manipulator and a mobile platform.


Title: Egocentric Vision-based Future Vehicle Localization for Intelligent Driving Assistance Systems
Abstract: Predicting the future location of vehicles is essential for safety-critical applications such as advanced driver assistance systems (ADAS) and autonomous driving. This paper introduces a novel approach to simultaneously predict both the location and scale of target vehicles in the first-person (egocentric) view of an ego-vehicle. We present a multi-stream recurrent neural network (RNN) encoder-decoder model that separately captures both object location and scale and pixel-level observations for future vehicle localization. We show that incorporating dense optical flow improves prediction results significantly since it captures information about motion as well as appearance change. We also find that explicitly modeling future motion of the ego-vehicle improves the prediction accuracy, which could be especially beneficial in intelligent and automated vehicles that have motion planning capability. To evaluate the performance of our approach, we present a new dataset of first-person videos collected from a variety of scenarios at road intersections, which are particularly challenging moments for prediction because vehicle trajectories are diverse and dynamic. Code and dataset have been made available at: https://usa.honda-ri.com/hevi.


Title: Dynamic Modeling and Gait Analysis for Miniature Robots in the Absence of Foot Placement Control
Abstract: The study of animals and insects have led to realization that animals select their gaits, patterns of leg movement, according to speed. For proper gait planning, the legs must be controlled for proper foot placement with respect to the body motion and ground interactions. However, in small scale robotic platforms gait planning through foot placement control is neither cost effective nor easily attainable due to a lack of available sensors. Thus, even though a desired gait is envisioned at the design phase, it is not known whether the gait is optimum. In this work, we present the comprehensive dynamic model of the miniature foldable robot, MinIAQ-II, which has four independently actuated legs. Dynamic model is used to perform gait analysis, to investigate the difference between the intended gait and the achieved gait in the absence of foot placement control. The model is verified through slow speed walking experiments on flat terrain. The work presented can be modified for different miniature robots with passive legs to predict their locomotion under no foot placement control.


Title: Online Utility-Optimal Trajectory Design for Time-Varying Ocean Environments
Abstract: This paper considers the problem of online optimal trajectory design under time-varying environments. Of particular interest is the design of energy-efficient trajectories under strong and uncertain disturbances in ocean environments and time-varying goal location. We formulate the problem within the constrained online convex optimization formalism, and a modified online gradient descent algorithm is motivated. The mobility constraints are met using a carefully chosen stepsize, and the proposed algorithm is shown to incur sublinear regret. Different from the state-of-the-art algorithms that entail planning and re-planning the full trajectory using forecast data at each time instant, the proposed algorithm is entirely online and relies mostly on the current ocean velocity measurements at the vehicle locations. The trade-off between excess delay incurred in reaching the goal and the overall energy consumption is examined via numerical tests carried out on real data obtained from the regional ocean modelling system. As compared to the state-of-the-art algorithms, the proposed algorithm is not only energy-efficient but also several orders of magnitude computationally efficient.


Title: Flight, Camera, Action! Using Natural Language and Mixed Reality to Control a Drone
Abstract: With increasing autonomy, robots like drones are increasingly accessible to untrained users. Most users control drones using a low-level interface, such as a radio-controlled (RC) controller. For a wider adoption of these technologies by the public, a much higher-level interface, such as natural language or mixed reality (MR), allows the automation of the control of the agent in a goal-oriented setting. We present an interface that uses natural language grounding within an MR environment to solve high-level task and navigational instructions given to an autonomous drone. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first work to perform fully autonomous language grounding in an MR setting for a robot. Given a map, our interface first grounds natural language commands to reward specifications within a Markov Decision Process (MDP) framework. Then, it passes the reward specification to an MDP solver. Finally, the drone performs the desired operations in the real world while planning and localizing itself. Our approach uses MR to provide a set of known virtual landmarks, enabling the drone to understand commands referring to objects without being equipped with object detectors for multiple novel objects or a predefined environment model. We conducted an exploratory user study to assess users' experience of our MR interface with and without natural language, as compared to a web interface. We found that users were able to command the drone more quickly via both MR interfaces as compared to the web interface, with roughly equal system usability scores across all three interfaces.


Title: Efficient Generation of Motion Plans from Attribute-Based Natural Language Instructions Using Dynamic Constraint Mapping
Abstract: We present an algorithm for combining natural language processing (NLP) and fast robot motion planning to automatically generate robot movements. Our formulation uses a novel concept called Dynamic Constraint Mapping to transform complex, attribute-based natural language instructions into appropriate cost functions and parametric constraints for optimization-based motion planning. We generate a factor graph from natural language instructions called the Dynamic Grounding Graph (DGG), which takes latent parameters into account. The coefficients of this factor graph are learned based on conditional random fields (CRFs) and are used to dynamically generate the constraints for motion planning. We map the cost function directly to the motion parameters of the planner and compute smooth trajectories in dynamic scenes. We highlight the performance of our approach in a simulated environment and via a human interacting with a 7-DOF Fetch robot using intricate language commands including negation, orientation specification, and distance constraints.


Title: Safe and Fast Path Planning in Cluttered Environment using Contiguous Free-space Partitioning
Abstract: The paper proposes a path planning algorithm for cluttered environment and maze. The proposed planning algorithm exploits the merit of convex optimization while forming the convex navigable free-spaces, ensuring safety of the vehicle. The contiguous convex free-spaces are iteratively computed from a random-walk based seed generation method to create a contiguous navigable geometry. Inside this contiguous navigable geometry an undirected graph is then created, whose each node and edge belong to at least one convex region which boils down the path planning problem into a graph search problem. In addition, the proposed multiple query planning algorithm can merge the user provided feasible initial and goal configuration with the existing undirected graph in each plan, without deteriorating the planning performance in terms of run-time and path length. Simulation and experimental results confirm the superiority of the proposed planning algorithm jointly in terms of both path length and run-time by a significant margin.


Title: Bonnet: An Open-Source Training and Deployment Framework for Semantic Segmentation in Robotics using CNNs
Abstract: The ability to interpret a scene is an important capability for a robot that is supposed to interact with its environment. The knowledge of what is in front of the robot is, for example, relevant for navigation, manipulation, or planning. Semantic segmentation labels each pixel of an image with a class label and thus provides a detailed semantic annotation of the surroundings to the robot. Convolutional neural networks (CNNs) are popular methods for addressing this type of problem. The available software for training and the integration of CNNs for real robots, however, is quite fragmented and often difficult to use for non-experts, despite the availability of several high-quality open-source frameworks for neural network implementation and training. In this paper, we propose a tool called Bonnet, which addresses this fragmentation problem by building a higher abstraction that is specific for the semantic segmentation task. It provides a modular approach to simplify the training of a semantic segmentation CNN independently of the used dataset and the intended task. Furthermore, we also address the deployment on a real robotic platform. Thus, we do not propose a new CNN approach in this paper. Instead, we provide a stable and easy-to-use tool to make this technology more approachable in the context of autonomous systems. In this sense, we aim at closing a gap between computer vision research and its use in robotics research. We provide an open-source codebase for training and deployment. The training interface is implemented in Python using TensorFlow and the deployment interface provides C++ library that can be easily integrated in an existing robotics codebase, a ROS node, and two standalone applications for label prediction in images and videos.


Title: iX-BSP: Belief Space Planning through Incremental Expectation
Abstract: Belief space planning (BSP) is a fundamental problem in robotics. Determining an optimal action quickly grows intractable as it involves calculating the expected accumulated cost (reward), where the expectation accounts for all future measurement realizations. State of the art approaches therefore resort to simplifying assumptions and approximations to reduce computational complexity. Importantly, while in robotics re-planning is essential, these approaches calculate each planning session from scratch. In this work we contribute a novel approach, iX-BSP, that is based on the key insight that calculations in consecutive planning sessions are similar in nature and can be thus re-used. Our approach performs incremental calculation of the expectation by appropriately re-using computations already performed in a precursory planing session while accounting for the information obtained in inference between the two planning sessions. The formulation of our approach considers general distributions and accounts for data association aspects. We evaluate iX-BSP in statistical simulation and show that incremental expectation calculations significantly reduce runtime without impacting performance.


Title: Multi-Object Search using Object-Oriented POMDPs
Abstract: A core capability of robots is to reason about multiple objects under uncertainty. Partially Observable Markov Decision Processes (POMDPs) provide a means of reasoning under uncertainty for sequential decision making, but are computationally intractable in large domains. In this paper, we propose Object-Oriented POMDPs (OO-POMDPs), which represent the state and observation spaces in terms of classes and objects. The structure afforded by OO-POMDPs support a factorization of the agent's belief into independent object distributions, which enables the size of the belief to scale linearly versus exponentially in the number of objects. We formulate a novel Multi-Object Search (MOS) task as an OO-POMDP for mobile robotics domains in which the agent must find the locations of multiple objects. Our solution exploits the structure of OO-POMDPs by featuring human language to selectively update the belief at task onset. Using this structure, we develop a new algorithm for efficiently solving OO-POMDPs: Object-Oriented Partially Observable Monte-Carlo Planning (OOPOMCP). We show that OO-POMCP with grounded language commands is sufficient for solving challenging MOS tasks both in simulation and on a physical mobile robot.


Title: Safely Probabilistically Complete Real-Time Planning and Exploration in Unknown Environments
Abstract: We present a new framework for motion planning that wraps around existing kinodynamic planners and guarantees recursive feasibility when operating in a priori unknown, static environments. Our approach makes strong guarantees about overall safety and collision avoidance by utilizing a robust controller derived from reachability analysis. We ensure that motion plans never exit the safe backward reachable set of the initial state, while safely exploring the space. This preserves the safety of the initial state, and guarantees that that we will eventually find the goal if it is possible to do so while exploring safely. We implement our framework in the Robot Operating System (ROS) software environment and demonstrate it in a real-time simulation.


Title: Coverage Path Planning in Belief Space
Abstract: For safety reasons, robotic lawn mowers and similar devices are required to stay within a predefined working area. Keeping the robot within its workspace is typically achieved by special safeguards such as a wire installed in the ground. In the case of robotic lawn mowers, this causes a certain customer reluctance. It is more desirable to fulfill those safety-critical tasks by safe navigation and path planning. In this paper, we tackle the problem of planning a coverage path composed of parallel lanes that maximizes robot safety under the constraints of cheap, low range sensors and thus substantial uncertainty in the robot's belief and ability to execute actions. Our approach uses a map of the environment to estimate localizability at all locations, and it uses these estimates to search for an uncertainty-aware coverage path while avoiding collisions. We implemented our approach using C++ and ROS and thoroughly tested it on real garden data. The experiment shows that our approach leads to safer meander patterns for the lawn mower and takes expected localizability information into account.


Title: Planning Coordinated Event Observation for Structured Narratives
Abstract: This paper addresses the problem of using autonomous robots to record events that obey narrative structure. The work is motivated by a vision of robot teams that can, for example, produce individualized highlight videos for each runner in a large-scale road race such as a marathon. We introduce a method for specifying the desired structure as a function that describes how well the captured events can be used to produce an output that meets the specification. This function is specified in a compact, legible form similar to a weighted finite automaton. Then we describe a planner that uses simple predictions of future events to coordinate the robots' efforts to capture the most important events, as determined by the specification. We describe an implementation of this approach, and demonstrate its effectiveness in a simulated race scenario both in simulation and in a hardware testbed.


Title: Rigid Body Motion Prediction with Planar Non-convex Contact Patch
Abstract: We present a principled method for motion prediction via dynamic simulation for rigid bodies in intermittent contact with each other where the contact is assumed to be a planar non-convex contact patch. The planar non-convex contact patch can either be a topologically connected set or disconnected set. Such algorithms are useful in planning and control for robotic manipulation. Most work in rigid body dynamic simulation assume that the contact between objects is a point contact, which may not be valid in many applications. In this paper, by using the convex hull of the contact patch, we build on our recent work on simulating rigid bodies with convex contact patches, for simulating motion of objects with planar non-convex contact patches. We formulate a discrete-time mixed complementarity problem where we solve the contact detection and integration of the equations of motion simultaneously. Thus, our method is a geometrically-implicit method and we prove that in our formulation, there is no artificial penetration between the contacting rigid bodies. We solve for the equivalent contact point (ECP) and contact impulse of each contact patch simultaneously along with the state, i.e., configuration and velocity of the objects. We provide empirical evidence to show that our method can seamlessly capture transition between different contact modes like patch contact to multiple or single point contact during simulation.


Title: Optimal Path Planning for ω-regular Objectives with Abstraction-Refinement
Abstract: This paper presents an abstraction-refinement based framework for optimal controller synthesis of discrete-time systems with respect to ω-regular objectives. It first abstracts the discrete-time “concrete” system into a finite weighted transition system using a finite partition of the state-space. Then, a two-player mean payoff parity game is solved on the product of the abstract system and the Büchi automaton corresponding to the ω-regular objective, to obtain an optimal “abstract” controller that satisfies the ω-regular objective. The abstract controller is guaranteed to be implementable in the concrete discrete-time system, with a sub-optimal cost. The abstraction is refined with finer partitions to reduce the suboptimality. In contrast to existing formal controller synthesis algorithms based on abstractions, this technique provides an upper bound on the trajectory cost when implementing the suboptimal controller. A robot surveillance scenario is presented to illustrate the feasibility of the approach.


