total paper: 50
Title: FMD Stereo SLAM: Fusing MVG and Direct Formulation Towards Accurate and Fast Stereo SLAM
Abstract: We propose a novel stereo visual SLAM framework considering both accuracy and speed at the same time. The framework makes full use of the advantages of key-feature-based multiple view geometry (MVG) and direct-based formulation. At the front-end, our system performs direct formulation and constant motion model to predict a robust initial pose, reprojects local map to find 3D-2D correspondence and finally refines pose by the reprojection error minimization. This frontend process makes our system faster. At the back-end, MVG is used to estimate 3D structure. When a new keyframe is inserted, new mappoints are generated by triangulating. In order to improve the accuracy of the proposed system, bad mappoints are removed and a global map is kept by bundle adjustment. Especially, the stereo constraint is performed to optimize the map. This back-end process makes our system more accurate. Experimental evaluation on EuRoC dataset shows that the proposed algorithm can run at more than 100 frames per second on a consumer computer while achieving highly competitive accuracy.


Title: GEN-SLAM: Generative Modeling for Monocular Simultaneous Localization and Mapping
Abstract: We present a Deep Learning based system for the twin tasks of localization and obstacle avoidance essential to any mobile robot. Our system learns from conventional geometric SLAM, and outputs, using a single camera, the topological pose of the camera in an environment, and the depth map of obstacles around it. We use a CNN to localize in a topological map, and a conditional VAE to output depth for a camera image, conditional on this topological location estimation. We demonstrate the effectiveness of our monocular localization and depth estimation system on simulated and real datasets.


Title: RESLAM: A real-time robust edge-based SLAM system
Abstract: Simultaneous Localization and Mapping is a key requirement for many practical applications in robotics. In this work, we present RESLAM, a novel edge-based SLAM system for RGBD sensors. Due to their sparse representation, larger convergence basin and stability under illumination changes, edges are a promising alternative to feature-based or other direct approaches. We build a complete SLAM pipeline with camera pose estimation, sliding window optimization, loop closure and relocalisation capabilities that utilizes edges throughout all steps. In our system, we additionally refine the initial depth from the sensor, the camera poses and the camera intrinsics in a sliding window to increase accuracy. Further, we introduce an edge-based verification for loop closures that can also be applied for relocalisation. We evaluate RESLAM on wide variety of benchmark datasets that include difficult scenes and camera motions and also present qualitative results. We show that this novel edge-based SLAM system performs comparable to state-of-the-art methods, while running in real-time on a CPU. RESLAM is available as open-source software1.


Title: On-line 3D active pose-graph SLAM based on key poses using graph topology and sub-maps
Abstract: In this paper, we present an on-line active pose-graph simultaneous localization and mapping (SLAM) frame-work for robots in three-dimensional (3D) environments using graph topology and sub-maps. This framework aims to find the best trajectory for loop-closure by re-visiting old poses based on the T-optimality and D-optimality metrics of the Fisher information matrix (FIM) in pose-graph SLAM. In order to reduce computational complexity, graph topologies are introduced, including weighted node degree (T-optimality metric) and weighted tree-connectivity (D-optimality metric), to choose a candidate trajectory and several key poses. With the help of the key poses, a sampling-based path planning method and a continuous-time trajectory optimization method are combined hierarchically and applied in the whole framework. So as to further improve the real-time capability of the method, the sub-map joining method is used in the estimation and planning process for large-scale active SLAM problems. In simulations and experiments, we validate our approach by comparing against existing methods, and we demonstrate the on-line planning part using a quad-rotor unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV).


Title: Robust Object-based SLAM for High-speed Autonomous Navigation
Abstract: We present Robust Object-based SLAM for High-speed Autonomous Navigation (ROSHAN), a novel approach to object-level mapping suitable for autonomous navigation. In ROSHAN, we represent objects as ellipsoids and infer their parameters using three sources of information - bounding box detections, image texture, and semantic knowledge - to overcome the observability problem in ellipsoid-based SLAM under common forward-translating vehicle motions. Each bounding box provides four planar constraints on an object surface and we add a fifth planar constraint using the texture on the objects along with a semantic prior on the shape of ellipsoids. We demonstrate ROSHAN in simulation where we outperform the baseline, reducing the median shape error by 83% and the median position error by 72% in a forward-moving camera sequence. We demonstrate similar qualitative result on data collected on a fast-moving autonomous quadrotor.


Title: MH-iSAM2: Multi-hypothesis iSAM using Bayes Tree and Hypo-tree
Abstract: A novel nonlinear incremental optimization algorithm MH-iSAM2 is developed to handle ambiguity in simultaneous localization and mapping (SLAM) problems in a multi-hypothesis fashion. It can output multiple possible solutions for each variable according to the ambiguous inputs, which is expected to greatly enhance the robustness of autonomous systems as a whole. The algorithm consists of two data structures: an extension of the original Bayes tree that allows efficient multi-hypothesis inference, and a Hypo-tree that is designed to explicitly track and associate the hypotheses of each variable as well as all the inference processes for optimization. With our proposed hypothesis pruning strategy, MH-iSAM2 enables fast optimization and avoids the exponential growth of hypotheses. We evaluate MH-iSAM2 using both simulated datasets and real-world experiments, demonstrating its improvements on the robustness and accuracy of SLAM systems.


Title: Fast and Robust Initialization for Visual-Inertial SLAM
Abstract: Visual-inertial SLAM (VI-SLAM) requires a good initial estimation of the initial velocity, orientation with respect to gravity and gyroscope and accelerometer biases. In this paper we build on the initialization method proposed by Martinelli [1] and extended by Kaiser et al. [2], modifying it to be more general and efficient. We improve accuracy with several rounds of visual-inertial bundle adjustment, and robustify the method with novel observability and consensus tests, that discard erroneous solutions. Our results on the EuRoC dataset show that, while the original method produces scale errors up to 156%, our method is able to consistently initialize in less than two seconds with scale errors around 5%, which can be further reduced to less than 1% performing visual-inertial bundle adjustment after ten seconds.


Title: Efficient Constellation-Based Map-Merging for Semantic SLAM
Abstract: Data association in SLAM is fundamentally challenging, and handling ambiguity well is crucial to achieve robust operation in real-world environments. When ambiguous measurements arise, conservatism often mandates that the measurement is discarded or a new landmark is initialized rather than risking an incorrect association. To address the inevitable “duplicate” landmarks that arise, we present an efficient map-merging framework to detect duplicate constellations of landmarks, providing a high-confidence loop-closure mechanism well-suited for object-level SLAM. This approach uses an incrementally-computable approximation of landmark uncertainty that only depends on local information in the SLAM graph, avoiding expensive recovery of the full system covariance matrix. This enables a search based on geometric consistency (GC) (rather than full joint compatibility (JC)) that inexpensively reduces the search space to a handful of “best” hypotheses. Furthermore, we reformulate the commonly-used interpretation tree to allow for more efficient integration of clique-based pairwise compatibility, accelerating the branch-and-bound max-cardinality search. Our method is demonstrated to match the performance of full JC methods at significantly-reduced computational cost, facilitating robust object-based loop-closure over large SLAM problems.


Title: Closed-loop MPC with Dense Visual SLAM - Stability through Reactive Stepping
Abstract: Walking gaits generated using Model Predictive Control (MPC) is widely used due to its capability to handle several constraints that characterize humanoid locomotion. The use of simplified models such as the Linear Inverted Pendulum allows to perform computations in real-time, giving the robot the fundamental capacity to replan its motion to follow external inputs (e.g. reference velocity, footstep plans). However, usually the MPC does not take into account the current state of the robot when computing the reference motion, losing the ability to react to external disturbances. In this paper a closed-loop MPC scheme is proposed to estimate the robot's real state through Simultaneous Localization and Mapping (SLAM) and proprioceptive sensors (force/torque). With the proposed control scheme it is shown that the robot is able to react to external disturbances (push), by stepping to recover from the loss of balance. Moreover the localization allows the robot to navigate to target positions in the environment without being affected by the drift generated by imperfect open-loop control execution. We validate the proposed scheme through two different experiments with a HRP-4 humanoid robot.


Title: Visual Appearance Analysis of Forest Scenes for Monocular SLAM
Abstract: Monocular simultaneous localisation and mapping (SLAM) is a cheap and energy efficient way to enable Unmanned Aerial Vehicles (UAVs) to safely navigate managed forests and gather data crucial for monitoring tree health. SLAM research, however, has mostly been conducted in structured human environments, and as such is poorly adapted to unstructured forests. In this paper, we compare the performance of state of the art monocular SLAM systems on forest data and use visual appearance statistics to characterise the differences between forests and other environments, including a photorealistic simulated forest. We find that SLAM systems struggle with all but the most straightforward forest terrain and identify key attributes (lighting changes and in-scene motion) which distinguish forest scenes from “classic” urban datasets. These differences offer an insight into what makes forests harder to map and open the way for targeted improvements. We also demonstrate that even simulations that look impressive to the human eye can fail to properly reflect the difficult attributes of the environment they simulate, and provide suggestions for more closely mimicking natural scenes.


Title: Visual SLAM: Why Bundle Adjust?
Abstract: Bundle adjustment plays a vital role in feature-based monocular SLAM. In many modern SLAM pipelines, bundle adjustment is performed to estimate the 6DOF camera trajectory and 3D map (3D point cloud) from the input feature tracks. However, two fundamental weaknesses plague SLAM systems based on bundle adjustment. First, the need to carefully initialise bundle adjustment means that all variables, in particular the map, must be estimated as accurately as possible and maintained over time, which makes the overall algorithm cumbersome. Second, since estimating the 3D structure (which requires sufficient baseline) is inherent in bundle adjustment, the SLAM algorithm will encounter difficulties during periods of slow motion or pure rotational motion. We propose a different SLAM optimisation core: instead of bundle adjustment, we conduct rotation averaging to incrementally optimise only camera orientations. Given the orientations, we estimate the camera positions and 3D points via a quasi-convex formulation that can be solved efficiently and globally optimally. Our approach not only obviates the need to estimate and maintain the positions and 3D map at keyframe rate (which enables simpler SLAM systems), it is also more capable of handling slow motions or pure rotational motions.


Title: Illumination Robust Monocular Direct Visual Odometry for Outdoor Environment Mapping
Abstract: Vision-based localization and mapping in outdoor environments is still a challenging issue, which requests significant robustness against various unpredictable illumination changes. In this paper, an illumination-robust direct monocular SLAM system that focuses on modeling outdoor scenery is presented. To deal with global and local lighting changes, such as solar flares, the state-of-art illumination invariant photometric costs for RGB-D and stereo SLAM systems are revisited in the context of their monocular counterpart, where the camera motion and scene structure are jointly optimized with a reasonably poor initialization. Based on our analysis, a combined cost is proposed to achieve a high-precision motion estimation with an improved convergence radius. The proposed system is extensively evaluated on the synthetic and real-world datasets regarding accuracy, robustness, and processing time, where our approach outperforms systems with other costs and state-of-art DSO and ORBSLAM2 systems.


Title: A Comparison of CNN-Based and Hand-Crafted Keypoint Descriptors
Abstract: Keypoint matching is an important operation in computer vision and its applications such as visual simultaneous localization and mapping (SLAM) in robotics. This matching operation heavily depends on the descriptors of the keypoints, and it must be performed reliably when images undergo condition changes such as those in illumination and viewpoint. Previous research in keypoint description has pursued three classes of descriptors: hand-crafted, those from trained convolutional neural networks (CNN), and those from pre-trained CNNs. This paper provides a comparative study of the three classes of keypoint descriptors, in terms of their ability to handle conditional changes. The study is conducted on the latest benchmark datasets in computer vision with challenging conditional changes. Our study finds that (a) in general CNN-based descriptors outperform hand-crafted descriptors, (b) the trained CNN descriptors perform better than pre-trained CNN descriptors with respect to viewpoint changes, and (c) pre-trained CNN descriptors perform better than trained CNN descriptors with respect to illumination changes. These findings can serve as a basis for selecting appropriate keypoint descriptors for various applications.


Title: Environment Driven Underwater Camera-IMU Calibration for Monocular Visual-Inertial SLAM
Abstract: Most state-of-the-art underwater vision systems are calibrated manually in shallow water and used in open seas without changing. However, the refractivity of the water is adaptively changed depending on the salinity, temperature, depth or other underwater environmental indexes, which inevitably generate the calibration errors and induces incorrectness e.g., for underwater Simultaneously Localization and Mapping (SLAM). To address this issue, in this paper, we propose a new underwater Camera-Inertial Measurement Unit (IMU) calibration model, which just needs to be calibrated once in the air, and then both the intrinsic parameters and extrinsic parameters between the camera and IMU could be automatically calculated depending on the environment indexes. To our best knowledge, this is the first work to consider the underwater Camera-IMU calibration via environmental indexes. We also build a verification platform to validate the effectiveness of our proposed method on real experiments, and use it for underwater monocular Visual-Inertial SLAM.


Title: Leveraging Structural Regularity of Atlanta World for Monocular SLAM
Abstract: A wide range of man-made environments can be abstracted as the Atlanta world. It consists of a set of Atlanta frames with a common vertical (gravitational) axis and multiple horizontal axes orthogonal to this vertical axis. This paper focuses on leveraging the regularity of Atlanta world for monocular SLAM. First, we robustly cluster image lines. Based on these clusters, we compute the local Atlanta frames in the camera frame by solving polynomial equations. Our method provides the global optimum and satisfies inherent geometric constraints. Second, we define the posterior probabilities to refine the initial clusters and Atlanta frames alternately by the maximum a posteriori estimation. Third, based on multiple local Atlanta frames, we compute the global Atlanta frames in the world frame using Kalman filtering. We optimize rotations by the global alignment and then refine translations and 3D line-based map under the directional constraints. Experiments on both synthesized and real data have demonstrated that our approach outperforms state-of-the-art methods.


Title: Multimodal Semantic SLAM with Probabilistic Data Association
Abstract: The recent success of object detection systems motivates object-based representations for robot navigation; i.e. semantic simultaneous localization and mapping (SLAM). The semantic SLAM problem can be decomposed into a discrete inference problem: determining object class labels and measurement-landmark correspondences (the data association problem), and a continuous inference problem: obtaining the set of robot poses and object locations in the environment. A solution to the semantic SLAM problem necessarily addresses this joint inference, but under ambiguous data associations this is in general a non-Gaussian inference problem, while the majority of previous work focuses on Gaussian inference. Previous solutions to data association either produce solutions between potential hypotheses or maintain multiple explicit hypotheses for each association. We propose a solution that represents hypotheses as multiple modes of an equivalent non-Gaussian sensor model. We then solve the resulting non-Gaussian inference problem using nonparametric belief propagation. We validate our approach in a simulated hallway environment under a variety of sensor noise characteristics, as well as using real data from the KITTI dataset, demonstrating improved robustness to perceptual aliasing and odometry uncertainty.


Title: Oriented Point Sampling for Plane Detection in Unorganized Point Clouds
Abstract: Plane detection in 3D point clouds is a crucial pre-processing step for applications such as point cloud segmentation, semantic mapping and SLAM. In contrast to many recent plane detection methods that are only applicable on organized point clouds, our work is targeted to unorganized point clouds that do not permit a 2D parametrization. We compare three methods for detecting planes in point clouds efficiently. One is a novel method proposed in this paper that generates plane hypotheses by sampling from a set of points with estimated normals. We named this method Oriented Point Sampling (OPS) to contrast with more conventional techniques that require the sampling of three unoriented points to generate plane hypotheses. We also implemented an efficient plane detection method based on local sampling of three unoriented points and compared it with OPS and the 3D-KHT algorithm, which is based on octrees, on the detection of planes on 10,000 point clouds from the SUN RGB-D dataset.


Title: Point Cloud Compression for 3D LiDAR Sensor using Recurrent Neural Network with Residual Blocks
Abstract: The use of 3D LiDAR, which has proven its capabilities in autonomous driving systems, is now expanding into many other fields. The sharing and transmission of point cloud data from 3D LiDAR sensors has broad application prospects in robotics. However, due to the sparseness and disorderly nature of this data, it is difficult to compress it directly into a very low volume. A potential solution is utilizing raw LiDAR data. We can rearrange the raw data from each frame losslessly in a 2D matrix, making the data compact and orderly. Due to the special structure of 3D LiDAR data, the texture of the 2D matrix is irregular, in contrast to 2D matrices of camera images. In order to compress this raw, 2D formatted LiDAR data efficiently, in this paper we propose a method which uses a recurrent neural network and residual blocks to progressively compress one frame's information from 3D LiDAR. Compared to our previous image compression based method and generic octree point cloud compression method, the proposed approach needs much less volume while giving the same decompression accuracy. Potential application scenarios for point cloud compression are also considered in this paper. We describe how decompressed point cloud data can be used with SLAM (simultaneous localization and mapping) as well as for localization using a given map, illustrating potential uses of the proposed method in real robotics applications.


Title: Non-Gaussian SLAM utilizing Synthetic Aperture Sonar
Abstract: Synthetic Aperture Sonar (SAS) is a technique to improve the spatial resolution from a moving set of receivers by extending the array in time, increasing the effective array length and aperture. This technique is limited by the accuracy of the receiver position estimates, necessitating highly accurate, typically expensive aided-inertial navigation systems for submerged platforms. We leverage simultaneous localization and mapping to fuse acoustic and navigational measurements and obtain accurate pose estimates even without the benefit of absolute positioning for lengthy underwater missions. We demonstrate a method of formulating the well-known SAS problem in a SLAM framework, using acoustic data from hydrophones to simultaneously estimate platform and beacon position. An empirical probability distribution is computed from a conventional beamformer to correctly account for uncertainty in the acoustic measurements. The non-parametric method relieves the familiar Gaussian-only assumption currently used in the localization and mapping discipline and fits effectively into a factor graph formulation with conventional factors such as ground-truth priors and odometry. We present results from field experiments performed on the Charles River with an autonomous surface vehicle which demonstrate simultaneous localization of an unknown acoustic beacon and vehicle positioning, and provide comparison to GPS ground truths.


Title: KO-Fusion: Dense Visual SLAM with Tightly-Coupled Kinematic and Odometric Tracking
Abstract: Dense visual SLAM methods are able to estimate the 3D structure of an environment and locate the observer within them. They estimate the motion of a camera by matching visual information between consecutive frames, and are thus prone to failure under extreme motion conditions or when observing texture-poor regions. The integration of additional sensor modalities has shown great promise in improving the robustness and accuracy of such SLAM systems. In contrast to the popular use of inertial measurements we propose to tightly-couple a dense RGB-D SLAM system with kinematic and odometry measurements from a wheeled robot equipped with a manipulator. The system has real-time capability while running on GPU. It optimizes the camera pose by considering the geometric alignment of the map as well as kinematic and odometric data from the robot. Through experimentation in the real-world, we show that the system is more robust to challenging trajectories featuring fast and loopy motion than the equivalent system without the additional kinematic and odometric knowledge, whilst retaining comparable performance to the equivalent RGB-D only system on easy trajectories.


Title: DeepFusion: Real-Time Dense 3D Reconstruction for Monocular SLAM using Single-View Depth and Gradient Predictions
Abstract: While the keypoint-based maps created by sparse monocular Simultaneous Localisation and Mapping (SLAM) systems are useful for camera tracking, dense 3D reconstructions may be desired for many robotic tasks. Solutions involving depth cameras are limited in range and to indoor spaces, and dense reconstruction systems based on minimising the photometric error between frames are typically poorly constrained and suffer from scale ambiguity. To address these issues, we propose a 3D reconstruction system that leverages the output of a Convolutional Neural Network (CNN) to produce fully dense depth maps for keyframes that include metric scale. Our system, DeepFusion, is capable of producing real-time dense reconstructions on a GPU. It fuses the output of a semi-dense multiview stereo algorithm with the depth and gradient predictions of a CNN in a probabilistic fashion, using learned uncertainties produced by the network. While the network only needs to be run once per keyframe, we are able to optimise for the depth map with each new frame so as to constantly make use of new geometric constraints. Based on its performance on synthetic and real world datasets, we demonstrate that DeepFusion is capable of performing at least as well as other comparable systems.


Title: Enhancing V-SLAM Keyframe Selection with an Efficient ConvNet for Semantic Analysis
Abstract: Selecting relevant visual information from a video is a challenging task on its own and even more in robotics, due to strong computational restrictions. This work proposes a novel keyframe selection strategy based on image quality and semantic information, which boosts strategies currently used in Visual-SLAM (V-SLAM). Commonly used V-SLAM methods select keyframes based only on relative displacements and amount of tracked feature points. Our strategy to select more carefully these keyframes allows the robotic systems to make better use of them. With minimal computational cost, we show that our selection includes more relevant keyframes, which are useful for additional posterior recognition tasks, without penalizing the existing ones, mainly place recognition. A key ingredient is our novel CNN architecture to run a quick semantic image analysis at the onboard CPU of the robot. It provides sufficient accuracy significantly faster than related works. We demonstrate our hypothesis with several public datasets with challenging robotic data.


Title: Global Localization with Object-Level Semantics and Topology
Abstract: Global localization lies at the heart of autonomous navigation and Simultaneous Localization and Mapping (SLAM). The appearance-based approach has been successful, but still faces many open challenges in environments where visual conditions vary significantly over time. In this paper, we propose an integrated solution to leverage object-level dense semantics and spatial understanding of the environment for global localization. Our approach models an environment with 3D dense semantics, semantic graph and their topology. This object-level representation is then used for place recognition via semantic object association, followed by 6-DoF pose estimation by the semantic-level point alignment. Extensive experiments show that our approach can achieve robust global localization under extreme appearance changes. It is also capable of coping with other challenging scenarios, such as dynamic environments and incomplete query observations.


Title: CNN-SVO: Improving the Mapping in Semi-Direct Visual Odometry Using Single-Image Depth Prediction
Abstract: Reliable feature correspondence between frames is a critical step in visual odometry (VO) and visual simultaneous localization and mapping (V-SLAM) algorithms. In comparison with existing VO and V-SLAM algorithms, semi-direct visual odometry (SVO) has two main advantages that lead to state-of-the-art frame rate camera motion estimation: direct pixel correspondence and efficient implementation of probabilistic mapping method. This paper improves the SVO mapping by initializing the mean and the variance of the depth at a feature location according to the depth prediction from a single-image depth prediction network. By significantly reducing the depth uncertainty of the initialized map point (i.e., small variance centred about the depth prediction), the benefits are twofold: reliable feature correspondence between views and fast convergence to the true depth in order to create new map points. We evaluate our method with two outdoor datasets: KITTI dataset and Oxford Robotcar dataset. The experimental results indicate that improved SVO mapping results in increased robustness and camera tracking accuracy. The implementation of this work is available at https: //github.com/yan99033/CNN-SVO.


Title: A Unified Framework for Mutual Improvement of SLAM and Semantic Segmentation
Abstract: This paper presents a novel framework for simultaneously implementing localization and segmentation, which are two of the most important vision-based tasks for robotics. While the goals and techniques used for them were considered to be different previously, we show that by making use of the intermediate results of the two modules, their performance can be enhanced at the same time. Our framework is able to handle both the instantaneous motion and long-term changes of instances in localization with the help of the segmentation result, which also benefits from the refined 3D pose information. We conduct experiments on various datasets, and prove that our framework works effectively on improving the precision and robustness of the two tasks and outperforms existing localization and segmentation algorithms.


Title: MID-Fusion: Octree-based Object-Level Multi-Instance Dynamic SLAM
Abstract: We propose a new multi-instance dynamic RGB-D SLAM system using an object-level octree-based volumetric representation. It can provide robust camera tracking in dynamic environments and at the same time, continuously estimate geometric, semantic, and motion properties for arbitrary objects in the scene. For each incoming frame, we perform instance segmentation to detect objects and refine mask boundaries using geometric and motion information. Meanwhile, we estimate the pose of each existing moving object using an object-oriented tracking method and robustly track the camera pose against the static scene. Based on the estimated camera pose and object poses, we associate segmented masks with existing models and incrementally fuse corresponding colour, depth, semantic, and foreground object probabilities into each object model. In contrast to existing approaches, our system is the first system to generate an object-level dynamic volumetric map from a single RGB-D camera, which can be used directly for robotic tasks. Our method can run at 2-3 Hz on a CPU, excluding the instance segmentation part. We demonstrate its effectiveness by quantitatively and qualitatively testing it on both synthetic and real-world sequences.


Title: Surfel-Based Dense RGB-D Reconstruction With Global And Local Consistency
Abstract: Achieving high surface reconstruction accuracy in dense mapping has been a desirable target for both robotics and vision communities. In the robotics literature, simultaneous localization and mapping (SLAM) systems use RGB-D cameras to reconstruct a dense map of the environment. They leverage the depth input to provide accurate local pose estimation and a locally consistent model. However, drift in the pose tracking over time leads to misalignments and artifacts. On the other hand, offline computer vision methods, such as the pipeline that combines structure-from-motion (SfM) and multi-view stereo (MVS), estimate the camera poses by performing batch optimization. These methods achieve global consistency, but suffer from heavy computation loads. We propose a novel approach that integrates both methods to achieve locally and globally consistent reconstruction. First, we estimate poses of keyframes in the offline SfM pipeline to provide strong global constraints at relatively low cost. Afterwards, we compute odometry between frames driven by off-the-shelf SLAM systems with high local accuracy. We fuse the two pose estimations using factor graph optimization to generate accurate camera poses for dense reconstruction. Experiments on real-world and synthetic datasets demonstrate that our approach produces more accurate models comparing to existing dense SLAM systems, while achieving significant speedup with respect to state-of-the-art SfM-MVS pipelines.


Title: A-SLAM: Human in-the-loop Augmented SLAM
Abstract: In this work, we are proposing an intuitive Augmented SLAM method (A-SLAM) that allows the user to interact, in real-time, with a robot running SLAM to correct for pose and map errors. We built an AR application that works on HoloLens and allows the operator to view the robot's map superposed on the physical environment and edit it. Through map editing, the operator can account for errors affecting real environment's representation by adding navigation-forbidden areas to the map in addition to the ability to correct errors affecting the localization. The proposed system allows the operator to edit the robot's pose (based on SLAM request) and can be extended to sending navigation goals to the robot, viewing the planned path to evaluate it before execution, and teleoperating the robot. The proposed solution could be applied on any 2D-based SLAM algorithm and can easily be extended to 3D SLAM techniques. We validated our system through experimentation on pose correction and map editing. Experiments demonstrated that through A-SLAM, SLAM runtime is cut to half, post-processing of maps is totally eliminated, and high quality occupancy grid maps could be achieved with minimal added computational and hardware costs.


Title: Pose Graph optimization for Unsupervised Monocular Visual Odometry
Abstract: Unsupervised Learning based monocular visual odometry (VO) has lately drawn significant attention for its potential in label-free leaning ability and robustness to camera parameters and environmental variations. However, partially due to the lack of drift correction technique, these methods are still by far less accurate than geometric approaches for large-scale odometry estimation. In this paper, we propose to leverage graph optimization and loop closure detection to overcome limitations of unsupervised learning based monocular visual odometry. To this end, we propose a hybrid VO system which combines an unsupervised monocular VO called NeuralBundler with a pose graph optimization back-end. NeuralBundler is a neural network architecture that uses temporal and spatial photometric loss as main supervision and generates a windowed pose graph consists of multi-view 6DoF constraints. We propose a novel pose cycle consistency loss to relieve the tensions in the windowed pose graph, leading to improved performance and robustness. In the back-end, a global pose graph is built from local and loop 6DoF constraints estimated by NeuralBundler, and is optimized over SE(3). Empirical evaluation on the KITTI odometry dataset demonstrates that 1) NeuralBundler achieves state-of-the-art performance on unsupervised monocular VO estimation, and 2) our whole approach can achieve efficient loop closing and show favorable overall translational accuracy compared to established monocular SLAM systems.


Title: Learning ad-hoc Compact Representations from Salient Landmarks for Visual Place Recognition in Underwater Environments
Abstract: In this paper, we propose an approach to learn compact representations from salient landmarks detected by a visual attention algorithm to recognize previously visited places in underwater environments. Instead of using hand-crafted local descriptors as it has been typically done in visual place recognition, we use a convolutional autoencoder to obtain an ad hoc descriptor generator from salient landmarks. The main advantage of using an autoencoder is that it can learn in an unsupervised manner directly from the salient landmarks. In addition, we show that it is possible to do the training with less than 100,000 examples instead of several hundreds of thousands or even millions of labeled examples as in other convolutional architectures. The trained convolutional autoencoder is used to obtain descriptors for salient landmarks that are later utilized in a voting scheme to calculate similarity between images with the objective of finding if a place has already been visited. The proposed method has obtained good results compared to SeqSLAM and FAB-MAP in different datasets obtained from robotic explorations of coral reefs in real life conditions. Moreover, when the visual attention algorithm is used, fewer features are required to get a good performance in terms of precision and recall compared when using the SURF method to extract visual features.


Title: A Variational Observation Model of 3D Object for Probabilistic Semantic SLAM
Abstract: We present a Bayesian object observation model for complete probabilistic semantic SLAM. Recent studies on object detection and feature extraction have become important for scene understanding and 3D mapping. However, 3D shape of the object is too complex to formulate the probabilistic observation model; therefore, performing the Bayesian inference of the object-oriented features as well as their pose is less considered. Besides, when the robot equipped with an RGB mono camera only observes the projected single view of an object, a significant amount of the 3D shape information is abandoned. Due to these limitations, semantic SLAM and viewpoint-independent loop closure using volumetric 3D object shape is challenging. In order to enable the complete formulation of probabilistic semantic SLAM, we approximate the observation model of a 3D object with a tractable distribution. We also estimate the variational likelihood from the 2D image of the object to exploit its observed single view. In order to evaluate the proposed method, we perform pose and feature estimation, and demonstrate that the automatic loop closure works seamlessly without additional loop detector in various environments.


Title: Tightly-Coupled Aided Inertial Navigation with Point and Plane Features
Abstract: This paper presents a tightly-coupled aided inertial navigation system (INS) with point and plane features, a general sensor fusion framework applicable to any visual and depth sensor (e.g., RGBD, LiDAR) configuration, in which the camera is used for point feature tracking and depth sensor for plane extraction. The proposed system exploits geometrical structures (planes) of the environments and adopts the closest point (CP) for plane parameterization. Moreover, we distinguish planar point features from non-planar point features in order to enforce point-on-plane constraints which are used in our state estimator, thus further exploiting structural information from the environment. We also introduce a simple but effective plane feature initialization algorithm for feature-based simultaneous localization and mapping (SLAM). In addition, we perform online spatial calibration between the IMU and the depth sensor as it is difficult to obtain this critical calibration parameter in high precision. Both Monte-Carlo simulations and real-world experiments are performed to validate the proposed approach.


Title: Robotic Forceps without Position Sensors using Visual SLAM
Abstract: In this study, a robotic forceps with a wrist joint using visual SLAM for joint angle sensing was developed. The forceps has a flexible joint connected to the wrist joint at its rear end and the motion of the rear joint is driven by a parallel linkage. A monocular camera attached on the rear of the parallel linkage is in charge of position sensing, and the joint angles are estimated from the pose of the camera. The pose of the camera is obtained by a visual SLAM. The visual servo system realizes a simple attaching mechanism. The static and dynamic positioning experiments are conducted. We confirmed that the visual servoing system controls the forceps tip within the error of 3 deg in the motion range of 50 deg.


Title: 3D Keypoint Repeatability for Heterogeneous Multi-Robot SLAM
Abstract: For robots with different types of sensors, loop closure in a multi-robot SLAM scenario requires keypoints that can be matched between sensor measurement point clouds with different properties such as point density and noise. In this paper, we evaluate the performance of several 3D keypoint detectors (Harris3D, ISS, KPQ, KPQ-SI, and NARF) for repeatability between scans from different sensors towards building a heterogeneous multi-robot SLAM system. We find that KPQ-SI and NARF have the best relative repeatability, with KPQ-SI finding more keypoints overall and a higher number of repeatable keypoints, at the cost of significantly worse computational performance. In scans of the same area from different poses, both detectors find enough keypoints for point cloud registration and loop closure. For heterogenous multirobot SLAM applications with computational or bandwidth restrictions, the NARF detector consistently finds repeatable keypoints while also allowing for real-time performance.


Title: SLAMBench 3.0: Systematic Automated Reproducible Evaluation of SLAM Systems for Robot Vision Challenges and Scene Understanding
Abstract: As the SLAM research area matures and the number of SLAM systems available increases, the need for frameworks that can objectively evaluate them against prior work grows. This new version of SLAMBench moves beyond traditional visual SLAM, and provides new support for scene understanding and non-rigid environments (dynamic SLAM). More concretely for dynamic SLAM, SLAMBench 3.0 includes the first publicly available implementation of DynamicFusion, along with an evaluation infrastructure. In addition, we include two SLAM systems (one dense, one sparse) augmented with convolutional neural networks for scene understanding, together with datasets and appropriate metrics. Through a series of use-cases, we demonstrate the newly incorporated algorithms, visulation aids and metrics (6 new metrics, 4 new datasets and 5 new algorithms).


Title: Beyond Photometric Loss for Self-Supervised Ego-Motion Estimation
Abstract: Accurate relative pose is one of the key components in visual odometry (VO) and simultaneous localization and mapping (SLAM). Recently, the self-supervised learning framework that jointly optimizes the relative pose and target image depth has attracted the attention of the community. Previous works rely on the photometric error generated from depths and poses between adjacent frames, which contains large systematic error under realistic scenes due to reflective surfaces and occlusions. In this paper, we bridge the gap between geometric loss and photometric loss by introducing the matching loss constrained by epipolar geometry in a self-supervised framework. Evaluated on the KITTI dataset, our method outperforms the state-of-the-art unsupervised egomotion estimation methods by a large margin. The code and data are available at https://github.com/hlzz/DeepMatchVO.


Title: Speeding Up Iterative Closest Point Using Stochastic Gradient Descent
Abstract: Sensors producing 3D point clouds such as 3D laser scanners and RGB-D cameras are widely used in robotics, be it for autonomous driving or manipulation. Aligning point clouds produced by these sensors is a vital component in such applications to perform tasks such as model registration, pose estimation, and SLAM. Iterative closest point (ICP) is the most widely used method for this task, due to its simplicity and efficiency. In this paper we propose a novel method which solves the optimisation problem posed by ICP using stochastic gradient descent (SGD). Using SGD allows us to improve the convergence speed of ICP without sacrificing solution quality. Experiments using Kinect as well as Velodyne data show that, our proposed method is faster than existing methods, while obtaining solutions comparable to standard ICP. An additional benefit is robustness to parameters when processing data from different sensors.


Title: Multirotor dynamics based online scale estimation for monocular SLAM
Abstract: This paper proposes a novel method to estimate the scale online for monocular SLAM. Unlike conventional scale estimation methods that require a metric sensor such as an IMU and apriori knowledge of its biases, this approach estimates the scale online by solely using the monocular camera and multirotor dynamics model in an extended Kalman Filter framework. Further, we discuss the observability of scale and theoretically show that the scale becomes observable when multirotor dynamics model and monocular vision are used in conjunction. We validate our proposition with extensive experimentation on the local as well as on the standard datasets and compare the same with other state of the art methods.


Title: Redundant Perception and State Estimation for Reliable Autonomous Racing
Abstract: In autonomous racing, vehicles operate close to the limits of handling and a sensor failure can have critical consequences. To limit the impact of such failures, this paper presents the redundant perception and state estimation approaches developed for an autonomous race car. Redundancy in perception is achieved by estimating the color and position of the track delimiting objects using two sensor modalities independently. Specifically, learning-based approaches are used to generate color and pose estimates, from LiDAR and camera data respectively. The redundant perception inputs are fused by a particle filter based SLAM algorithm that operates in real-time. Velocity is estimated using slip dynamics, with reliability being ensured through a probabilistic failure detection algorithm. The sub-modules are extensively evaluated in real-world racing conditions using the autonomous race car gotthard driverless, achieving lateral accelerations up to 1. 7G and a top speed of 90km/h.


Title: UWB/LiDAR Fusion For Cooperative Range-Only SLAM
Abstract: We equip an ultra-wideband (UWB) node and a 2D LiDAR sensor a.k.a. 2D laser rangefinder on a mobile robot, and place UWB beacon nodes at unknown locations in an unknown environment. All UWB nodes can do ranging with each other thus forming a cooperative sensor network. We propose to fuse the peer-to-peer ranges measured between UWB nodes and laser scanning information, i.e., range measured between robot and nearby objects/obstacles, for simultaneous localization of the robot, all UWB beacons and LiDAR mapping. The fusion is inspired by two facts: 1) LiDAR may improve UWB-only localization accuracy as it gives a more precise and comprehensive picture of the surrounding environment; 2) on the other hand, UWB ranging measurements may remove the error accumulated in the LiDAR-based SLAM algorithm. Our experiments demonstrate that UWB/LiDAR fusion enables drift-free SLAM in real-time based on ranging measurements only.


Title: Characterizing Visual Localization and Mapping Datasets
Abstract: Benchmarking mapping and motion estimation algorithms is established practice in robotics and computer vision. As the diversity of datasets increases, in terms of the trajectories, models, and scenes, it becomes a challenge to select datasets for a given benchmarking purpose. Inspired by the Wasserstein distance, this paper addresses this concern by developing novel metrics to evaluate trajectories and the environments without relying on any SLAM or motion estimation algorithm. The metrics, which so far have been missing in the research community, can be applied to the plethora of datasets that exist. Additionally, to improve the robotics SLAM benchmarking, the paper presents a new dataset for visual localization and mapping algorithms. A broad range of real-world trajectories is used in very high-quality scenes and a rendering framework to create a set of synthetic datasets with ground-truth trajectory and dense map which are representative of key SLAM applications such as virtual reality (VR), micro aerial vehicle (MAV) flight, and ground robotics.


Title: Low-latency Visual SLAM with Appearance-Enhanced Local Map Building
Abstract: A local map module is often implemented in modern VO/VSLAM systems to improve data association and pose estimation. Conventionally, the local map contents are determined by co-visibility. While co-visibility is cheap to establish, it utilizes the relatively-weak temporal prior (i.e. seen before, likely to be seen now), therefore admitting more features into the local map than necessary. This paper describes an enhancement to co-visibility local map building by incorporating a strong appearance prior, which leads to a more compact local map and latency reduction in downstream data association. The appearance prior collected from the current image influences the local map contents: only the map features visually similar to the current measurements are potentially useful for data association. To that end, mapped features are indexed and queried with Multi-index Hashing (MIH). An online hash table selection algorithm is developed to further reduce the query overhead of MIH and the local map size. The proposed appearance-based local map building method is integrated into a state-of-the-art VO/VSLAM system. When evaluated on two public benchmarks, the size of the local map, as well as the latency of real-time pose tracking in VO/VSLAM are significantly reduced. Meanwhile, the VO/VSLAM mean performance is preserved or improves.


Title: RCM-SLAM: Visual localisation and mapping under remote centre of motion constraints
Abstract: In robotic surgery the motion of instruments and the laparoscopic camera is constrained by their insertion ports, i. e. a remote centre of motion (RCM). We propose a Simultaneous Localisation and Mapping (SLAM) approach that estimates laparoscopic camera motion under RCM constraints. To achieve this we derive a minimal solver for the absolute camera pose given two 2D-3D point correspondences (RCM-PnP) and also a bundle adjustment optimiser that refines camera poses within an RCM-constrained parameterisation. These two methods are used together with previous work on relative pose estimation under RCM [1] to assemble a SLAM pipeline suitable for robotic surgery. Our simulations show that RCM-PnP outperforms conventional PnP for a wide noise range in the RCM position. Results with video footage from a robotic prostatectomy show that RCM constraints significantly improve camera pose estimation.


Title: Guaranteed Globally Optimal Planar Pose Graph and Landmark SLAM via Sparse-Bounded Sums-of-Squares Programming
Abstract: Autonomous navigation requires an accurate model or map of the environment. While dramatic progress in the prior two decades has enabled large-scale simultaneous localization and mapping (SLAM), the majority of existing methods rely on non-linear optimization techniques to find the maximum likelihood estimate (MLE) of the robot trajectory and surrounding environment. These methods are prone to local minima and are thus sensitive to initialization. Several recent papers have developed optimization algorithms for the Pose-Graph SLAM problem that can certify the optimality of a computed solution. Though this does not guarantee a priori that this approach generates an optimal solution, a recent extension has shown that when the noise lies within a critical threshold that the solution to the optimization algorithm is guaranteed to be optimal. To address the limitations of existing approaches, this paper illustrates that the Pose-Graph SLAM and Landmark SLAM can be formulated as polynomial optimization programs that are sum-of-squares (SOS) convex. This paper then describes how the Pose-Graph and Landmark SLAM problems can be solved to a global minimum without initialization regardless of noise level using the sparse bounded degree sum-of-squares (Sparse-BSOS) optimization method. Finally, the superior performance of the proposed approach when compared to existing SLAM methods is illustrated on graphs with several hundred nodes.


Title: Predicting the Layout of Partially Observed Rooms from Grid Maps
Abstract: In several applications, autonomous mobile robots benefit from knowing the structure of the indoor environments where they operate. This knowledge can be extracted from the metric maps built (e.g., using SLAM algorithms) from the data perceived by the robots' sensors. The layout is a way to represent the structure of an indoor environment with geometrical primitives. Most of the current methods for reconstructing the layout from a metric map represent the parts of the environment that have been fully observed. In this paper, we propose an approach that predicts the layout of rooms which are only partially known in a 2D metric grid map. The prediction is made according to the global structure of the environment, as identified from its known parts. Experiments show that our approach is able to effectively predict the layout of several indoor environments that have been observed to different degrees.


Title: Real-time Scalable Dense Surfel Mapping
Abstract: In this paper, we propose a novel dense surfel mapping system that scales well in different environments with only CPU computation. Using a sparse SLAM system to estimate camera poses, the proposed mapping system can fuse intensity images and depth images into a globally consistent model. The system is carefully designed so that it can build from room-scale environments to urban-scale environments using depth images from RGB-D cameras, stereo cameras or even a monocular camera. First, superpixels extracted from both intensity and depth images are used to model surfels in the system. superpixel-based surfels make our method both runtime efficient and memory efficient. Second, surfels are further organized according to the pose graph of the SLAM system to achieve O(1) fusion time regardless of the scale of reconstructed models. Third, a fast map deformation using the optimized pose graph enables the map to achieve global consistency in real-time. The proposed surfel mapping system is compared with other state-of-the-art methods on synthetic datasets. The performances of urban-scale and room-scale reconstruction are demonstrated using the KITTI dataset [1] and autonomous aggressive flights, respectively. The code is available for the benefit of the community.


Title: Semantic Mapping for View-Invariant Relocalization
Abstract: We propose a system for visual simultaneous localization and mapping (SLAM) that combines traditional local appearance-based features with semantically meaningful object landmarks to achieve both accurate local tracking and highly view-invariant object-driven relocalization. Our mapping process uses a sampling-based approach to efficiently infer the 3D pose of object landmarks from 2D bounding box object detections. These 3D landmarks then serve as a view-invariant representation which we leverage to achieve camera relocalization even when the viewing angle changes by more than 125 degrees. This level of view-invariance cannot be attained by local appearance-based features (e.g. SIFT) since the same set of surfaces are not even visible when the viewpoint changes significantly. Our experiments show that even when existing methods fail completely for viewpoint changes of more than 70 degrees, our method continues to achieve a relocalization rate of around 90%, with a mean rotational error of around 8 degrees.


Title: Real-Time Monocular Object-Model Aware Sparse SLAM
Abstract: Simultaneous Localization And Mapping (SLAM) is a fundamental problem in mobile robotics. While sparse point-based SLAM methods provide accurate camera localization, the generated maps lack semantic information. On the other hand, state of the art object detection methods provide rich information about entities present in the scene from a single image. This work incorporates a real-time deep-learned object detector to the monocular SLAM framework for representing generic objects as quadrics that permit detections to be seamlessly integrated while allowing the real-time performance. Finer reconstruction of an object, learned by a CNN network, is also incorporated and provides a shape prior for the quadric leading further refinement. To capture the structure of the scene, additional planar landmarks are detected by a CNN-based plane detector and modelled as independent landmarks in the map. Extensive experiments support our proposed inclusion of semantic objects and planar structures directly in the bundle-adjustment of SLAM - Semantic SLAM- that enriches the reconstructed map semantically, while significantly improving the camera localization.


Title: Probabilistic Projective Association and Semantic Guided Relocalization for Dense Reconstruction
Abstract: We present a real-time dense mapping system which uses the predicted 2D semantic labels for optimizing the geometric quality of reconstruction. With a combination of Convolutional Neural Networks (CNNs) for 2D labeling and a Simultaneous Localization and Mapping (SLAM) system for camera trajectory estimation, recent approaches have succeeded in incrementally fusing and labeling 3D scenes. However, the geometric quality of the reconstruction can be further improved by incorporating such semantic prediction results, which is not sufficiently exploited by existing methods. In this paper, we propose to use semantic information to improve two crucial modules in the reconstruction pipeline, namely tracking and loop detection, for obtaining mutual benefits in geometric reconstruction and semantic recognition. Specifically for tracking, we use a novel probabilistic projective association approach to efficiently pick out candidate correspondences, where the confidence of these correspondences is quantified concerning similarities on all available short-term invariant features. For the loop detection, we incorporate these semantic labels into the original encoding through Randomized Ferns to generate a more comprehensive representation for retrieving candidate loop frames. Evaluations on a publicly available synthetic dataset have shown the effectiveness of our approach that considers such semantic hints as a reliable feature for achieving higher geometric quality.


Title: MRS-VPR: a multi-resolution sampling based global visual place recognition method
Abstract: Place recognition and loop closure detection are challenging for long-term visual navigation tasks. SeqSLAM is considered to be one of the most successful approaches to achieve long-term localization under varying environmental conditions and changing viewpoints. SeqSLAM uses a brute-force sequential matching method, which is computationally intensive. In this work, we introduce a multi-resolution sampling-based global visual place recognition method (MRS-VPR), which can significantly improve the matching efficiency and accuracy in sequential matching. The novelty of this method lies in the coarse-to-fine searching pipeline and a particle filter-based global sampling scheme, that can balance the matching efficiency and accuracy in the long-term navigation task. Moreover, our model works much better than SeqSLAM when the testing sequence is over a much smaller time scale than the reference sequence. Our experiments demonstrate that MRSVPR is efficient in locating short temporary trajectories within long-term reference ones without compromising on the accuracy compared to SeqSLAM.


