total paper: 12
Title: Flight Testing Boustrophedon Coverage Path Planning for Fixed Wing UAVs in Wind
Key Words: aerospace components  autonomous aerial vehicles  mobile robots  path planning  remotely operated vehicles  wind  flight test results  model prediction  multirotor UAV  boustrophedon coverage path planning  flight path  aerial surveys  complex concave agricultural fields  flight time  wind prediction model  cost function  wind field measurements  fixed wing UAV  Wind  Aircraft  Robot sensing systems  Mathematical model  Atmospheric modeling  Path planning  Predictive models  Aerial Surveying  Coverage Path Planning  Remote Sensing  Boustrophedon paths  Wind  Trochoids 
Abstract: A method was previously developed by this author to optimise the flight path of a fixed wing UAV performing aerial surveys of complex concave agricultural fields. This relies heavily on a flight time in wind prediction model as its cost function. This paper aims to validate this model by comparing flight test results with the model prediction. There are a number of assumptions that this model relies on. The major assumption is that wind is steady and uniform over the small area and time scales involved in a survey. To show that this is reasonable, wind fields measurements will be taken from a multi rotor UAV with an ultrasonic windspeed sensor.


Title: Obstacle-aware Adaptive Informative Path Planning for UAV-based Target Search
Key Words: aircraft control  autonomous aerial vehicles  collision avoidance  Gaussian processes  mobile robots  object detection  robot vision  target occupancy  UAV-based target search  Gaussian process based model  flight time constraints  planning strategy  obstacle-aware adaptive informative path planning algorithm  target detection  unmanned aerial vehicles  collision avoidance  Planning  Search problems  Three-dimensional displays  Optimization  Trajectory  Unmanned aerial vehicles  Robot sensing systems 
Abstract: Target search with unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs) is relevant problem to many scenarios, e.g., search and rescue (SaR). However, a key challenge is planning paths for maximal search efficiency given flight time constraints. To address this, we propose the Obstacle-aware Adaptive Informative Path Planning (OA-IPP) algorithm for target search in cluttered environments using UAVs. Our approach leverages a layered planning strategy using a Gaussian Process (GP)based model of target occupancy to generate informative paths in continuous 3D space. Within this framework, we introduce an adaptive replanning scheme which allows us to trade off between information gain, field coverage, sensor performance, and collision avoidance for efficient target detection. Extensive simulations show that our OA-IPP method performs better than state-of-the-art planners, and we demonstrate its application in a realistic urban SaR scenario.


Title: Turn-minimizing multirobot coverage
Key Words: minimisation  mobile robots  multi-robot systems  path planning  travelling salesman problems  turn-minimizing multirobot coverage  identical robots  mission time  robot  multiple travelling salesperson problem  coverage plans  robotic vacuum  turn minimization  coverage time  path planning  partitioning heuristic  coverage plan  multirobot coverage  Robots  Tools  Turning  Minimization  Shape  Merging  Planning 
Abstract: Multirobot coverage is the problem of planning paths for several identical robots such that the combined regions traced out by the robots completely cover their environment. We consider the problem of multirobot coverage with the objective of minimizing the mission time, which depends on the number of turns taken by the robots. To solve this problem, we first partition the environment into ranks which are long thin rectangles the width of the robot's coverage tool. Our novel partitioning heuristic produces a set of ranks which minimizes the number of turns. Next, we solve a variant of the multiple travelling salesperson problem (m-TSP) on the set of ranks to minimize the robots' mission time. The resulting coverage plan is guaranteed to cover the entire environment. We present coverage plans for a robotic vacuum using real maps of 25 indoor environments and compare the solutions to paths planned without the objective of minimizing turns. Turn minimization reduced the number of turns by 6.7% and coverage time by 3.8% on average for teams of 1-5 robots.


Title: Development of Informative Path Planning for Inspection of the Hanford Tank Farm
Key Words: inspection  mobile robots  optimisation  path planning  rastering technique  high-level nuclear waste tanks  Hanford facility  robotic inspection  utility function  informative path planning  Hanford tank farm  structural monitoring  static sensor networks  predetermined locations  mobile robots  Bayesian optimization approach  Robot sensing systems  Kernel  Inspection  Temperature measurement  Gaussian processes  Welding 
Abstract: Traditional environmental and structural monitoring often uses static sensor networks deployed at predetermined locations or mobile robots that use a rastering technique for area coverage. These methods rely on the operators making assumptions about the nature of the unknown field that is being measured and are often time-consuming for localizing an area of interest. Here, we aim to quickly localize possible leaks within high-level nuclear waste tanks at the Hanford facility. The structure of these tanks precludes most sensor network approaches and raises many issues with robotic inspection, such as navigation within highly constrained environments. This work uses a Bayesian Optimization approach for guiding a mobile robot's search strategy and implements a utility function that allows for prior knowledge of the structure to be incorporated when selecting future search locations. Compared to traditional exhaustive approaches, our method quickly reduces RMSE error and shortens the distance the robot must travel.


Title: Coverage of an Environment Using Energy-Constrained Unmanned Aerial Vehicles
Key Words: approximation theory  autonomous aerial vehicles  computational complexity  mobile robots  path planning  travelling salesman problems  UGV  area coverage problem  energy-constrained unmanned aerial vehicle  unmanned ground vehicle  symbiotic UAV  NP-hard problem  generalized traveling salesperson problem  boustrophedon cells  limited battery capacity  Batteries  Unmanned aerial vehicles  Agriculture  Robot sensing systems  Strips  Routing 
Abstract: We study the problem of covering an environment using an Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV) with limited battery capacity. We consider a scenario where the UAV can land on an Unmanned Ground Vehicle (UGV) and recharge the onboard battery. The UGV can also recharge the UAV while transporting the UAV to the next take-off site. We present an algorithm to solve a new variant of the area coverage problem that takes into account this symbiotic UAV and UGV system. The input consists of a set of boustrophedon cells - rectangular strips whose width is equal to the field-of-view of the sensor on the UAV. The goal is to find a tour for the UAV that visits and covers all cells in minimum time. This includes flight time for visiting and covering all cells, recharging time, as well as the take-off and landing times. We show how to reduce this problem to a known NP-hard problem, Generalized Traveling Salesperson Problem (GTSP). Given an optimal GTSP solver, our approach finds the optimal coverage paths for the UAV and UGV. We evaluate our algorithm through simulations and proof-of-concept experiments.


Title: Evaluating the Effectiveness of Perspective Aware Planning with Panoramas
Key Words: image colour analysis  image sensors  object detection  path planning  robot vision  SLAM (robots)  binary coverage  goal selection strategy  image morphology  search space  CSQMI  perspective aware planning  information based exploration strategy  high resolution 3D maps  RGBD panoramas  angle enhanced occupancy grid  exploration strategy  maximal Cauchy-Schwarz quadratic mutual information  logging image control  Skeleton  Mutual information  Task analysis  Cameras  Robot vision systems 
Abstract: In this work, we present an information based exploration strategy tailored for the generation of high resolution 3D maps. We employ RGBD panoramas because they have been shown to provide memory efficient high quality representations of space. Robots explore the environment by selecting locations with maximal Cauchy-Schwarz Quadratic Mutual Information (CSQMI) computed on an angle enhanced occupancy grid to collect these RGBD panoramas. By employing the angle enhanced occupancy grid, the resulting exploration strategy emphasizes perspective in addition to binary coverage. Furthermore, the goal selection strategy is improved by using image morphology to reduce the search space over which CSQMI is computed. We present experimental results demonstrating the improved performance in perception related tasks by capturing panoramas using this approach, near frontier exploration, and a control of logging images at regular intervals while teleoperating the robot through the workspace. Collect imagery was passed through an object detection library with our perspective aware approach yielding a greater number of successful detections compared to near frontier exploration.


Title: Improved Coverage Path Planning Using a Virtual Sensor Footprint: a Case Study on Demining
Key Words: mobile robots  optimisation  path planning  sensors  physical sensor  virtual footprint  optimization problem  energy performances  virtual sensor footprint  coverage path planning problem  robotic arm  larger areas  platform moves  larger footprint  metal detector  Robot sensing systems  Manipulators  Metals  Detectors  Trajectory  Shape 
Abstract: Coverage performance in a coverage path planning problem depends both on the path created and on the footprint of the sensor used. The footprint can be increased either by increasing the size of the sensor, or by mounting the sensor on a robotic arm to allow scanning over larger areas as the platform moves, effectively creating a virtual sensor with a larger footprint than the physical sensor's. However, the virtual footprint comes at a cost requiring formulating an optimization problem for the area of interest. In this work, three common strategies to use a metal detector on a platform are discussed, their time and energy performances are formulated and the corresponding optima are found.


Title: Project AutoVision: Localization and 3D Scene Perception for an Autonomous Vehicle with a Multi-Camera System
Key Words: cameras  geometry  image reconstruction  mobile robots  path planning  remotely operated vehicles  robot vision  stereo image processing  video signal processing  sensor suite  autonomous vehicle  multicamera system  3D scene perception capabilities  self-driving vehicle  autonomous navigation  urban environments  rural environments  exteroceptive sensors  AutoVision project  multiview geometry  Cameras  Sensors  Three-dimensional displays  Calibration  Laser radar  Autonomous vehicles  Lighting 
Abstract: Project AutoVision aims to develop localization and 3D scene perception capabilities for a self-driving vehicle. Such capabilities will enable autonomous navigation in urban and rural environments, in day and night, and with cameras as the only exteroceptive sensors. The sensor suite employs many cameras for both 360-degree coverage and accurate multi-view stereo; the use of low-cost cameras keeps the cost of this sensor suite to a minimum. In addition, the project seeks to extend the operating envelope to include GNSS-less conditions which are typical for environments with tall buildings, foliage, and tunnels. Emphasis is placed on leveraging multi-view geometry and deep learning to enable the vehicle to localize and perceive in 3D space. This paper presents an overview of the project, and describes the sensor suite and current progress in the areas of calibration, localization, and perception.


Title: Complete and Near-Optimal Path Planning for Simultaneous Sensor-Based Inspection and Footprint Coverage in Robotic Crack Filling
Key Words: filling  inspection  mobile robots  optimal control  path planning  sensors  surface cracks  near-optimal path planning  robotic crack  simultaneous robotic footprint  range sensors  complete sensor coverage  planning strategy  crack-filling robotic prototype  online planning algorithm  sensor-based inspection  near-optimal footprint coverage  online sensor-based complete coverage planning  online SCC planning  Robot sensing systems  Planning  Inspection  Space exploration  Surface cracks 
Abstract: A simultaneous robotic footprint and sensor coverage planning scheme is proposed to efficiently detect all the unknown targets with range sensors and cover the targets with the robot's footprint in a structured environment. The proposed online Sensor-based Complete Coverage (online SCC) planning minimizes the total traveling distance of the robot, guarantees the complete sensor coverage of the whole free space, and achieves near-optimal footprint coverage of all the targets. The planning strategy is applied to a crack-filling robotic prototype to detect and fill all the unknown cracks on ground surfaces. Simulation and experimental results are presented that confirm the efficiency and effectiveness of the proposed online planning algorithm.


Title: Search-based 3D Planning and Trajectory Optimization for Safe Micro Aerial Vehicle Flight Under Sensor Visibility Constraints
Key Words: aerospace safety  collision avoidance  graph theory  navigation  search problems  trajectory optimisation (aerospace)  trajectory optimization  sensor visibility constraints  obstacle-free flight paths  Velodyne Puck Lite 3D laser scanner  flight dynamics  navigation safety  allocentric complete planning  microaerial vehicle flight safety  search-based 3D planning  collision avoidance  graph search  Planning  Robot sensing systems  Three-dimensional displays  Trajectory optimization  Vehicle dynamics 
Abstract: Safe navigation of Micro Aerial Vehicles (MAVs) requires not only obstacle-free flight paths according to a static environment map, but also the perception of and reaction to previously unknown and dynamic objects. This implies that the onboard sensors cover the current flight direction. Due to the limited payload of MAVs, full sensor coverage of the environment has to be traded off with flight time. Thus, often only a part of the environment is covered. We present a combined allocentric complete planning and trajectory optimization approach taking these sensor visibility constraints into account. The optimized trajectories yield flight paths within the apex angle of a Velodyne Puck Lite 3D laser scanner enabling low-level collision avoidance to perceive obstacles in the flight direction. Furthermore, the optimized trajectories take the flight dynamics into account and contain the velocities and accelerations along the path. We evaluate our approach with a DJI Matrice 600 MAV and in simulation employing hardware-in-the-loop.


Title: Spatial Coverage Without Computation
Key Words: mobile robots  multi-robot systems  navigation  path planning  random processes  robot redundancy  optimized random walk  performance improvements  sub-millimeter-sized robots  spatial coverage  anonymous robots  mobile robots  two-dimensional space  extremely simple robots  run-time computation  computer simulations  deterministic controller  off-line optimization  physical e-puck robots  Robot kinematics  Robot sensing systems  Mobile robots  Wheels  Area measurement 
Abstract: We study the problem of controlling a swarm of anonymous, mobile robots to cooperatively cover an unknown two-dimensional space. The novelty of our proposed solution is that it is applicable to extremely simple robots that lack run-time computation or storage. The solution requires only a single bit of information per robot-whether or not another robot is present in its line of sight. Computer simulations show that our deterministic controller, which was obtained through off-line optimization, achieves around 71-76% coverage in a test scenario with no robot redundancy, which corresponds to a 26-39% reduction of the area that is not covered, when compared to an optimized random walk. A moderately lower level of performance was observed in 20 experimental trials with 25 physical e-puck robots. Moreover, we demonstrate that the same controller can be used in environments of different dimensions and even to navigate a maze. The controller provides a baseline against which one can quantify the performance improvements that more advanced and expensive techniques may offer. Moreover, due to its simplicity, it could potentially be implemented on swarms of sub-millimeter-sized robots. This would pave the way for new applications in micro-medicine.


Title: Coverage Path Planning in Belief Space
Key Words: C++ language  collision avoidance  control engineering computing  lawnmowers  mobile robots  navigation  operating systems (computers)  robot programming  coverage path planning  belief space  robotic lawn mowers  safety-critical tasks  robot safety  cheap range sensors  low range sensors  uncertainty-aware coverage path  lawn mower  safe navigation  collision avoidance  C++ language  ROS  Robot sensing systems  Planning  Path planning  Uncertainty  Collision avoidance 
Abstract: For safety reasons, robotic lawn mowers and similar devices are required to stay within a predefined working area. Keeping the robot within its workspace is typically achieved by special safeguards such as a wire installed in the ground. In the case of robotic lawn mowers, this causes a certain customer reluctance. It is more desirable to fulfill those safety-critical tasks by safe navigation and path planning. In this paper, we tackle the problem of planning a coverage path composed of parallel lanes that maximizes robot safety under the constraints of cheap, low range sensors and thus substantial uncertainty in the robot's belief and ability to execute actions. Our approach uses a map of the environment to estimate localizability at all locations, and it uses these estimates to search for an uncertainty-aware coverage path while avoiding collisions. We implemented our approach using C++ and ROS and thoroughly tested it on real garden data. The experiment shows that our approach leads to safer meander patterns for the lawn mower and takes expected localizability information into account.


