total paper: 240
Title: Learning Motion Planning Policies in Uncertain Environments through Repeated Task Executions
Key Words: collision avoidance  learning (artificial intelligence)  mobile robots  motion control  learned reactive planning problem  motion planning policy learning  execution cost  motion policy  navigation task  online replanning  reactive algorithms  goal location  repeated task executions  uncertain environments  Task analysis  Robot sensing systems  Planning  Navigation  Reinforcement learning  Heuristic algorithms 
Abstract: The ability to navigate uncertain environments from a start to a goal location is a necessity in many applications. While there are many reactive algorithms for online replanning, there has not been much investigation in leveraging past executions of the same navigation task to improve future executions. In this work, we first formalize this problem by introducing the Learned Reactive Planning Problem (LRPP). Second, we propose a method to capture these past executions and from that determine a motion policy to handle obstacles that the robot has seen before. Third, we show from our experiments that using this policy can significantly reduce the execution cost over just using reactive algorithms.


Title: BaRC: Backward Reachability Curriculum for Robotic Reinforcement Learning
Key Words: learning (artificial intelligence)  Markov processes  optimisation  path planning  robots  BaRC  initial state distribution backwards  model-free RL algorithm  goal-directed continuous control MDPs  curriculum strategy  representative dynamic robotic learning problems  goal-directed tasks  learning signal  model-free policy optimization algorithm  backward reachability curriculum  curriculum generation techniques  robotic reinforcement learning  model-free reinforcement learning  model-free algorithms  reward function  exploration strategies  Robots  Task analysis  Training  Computational modeling  Heuristic algorithms  Complexity theory  Approximation algorithms 
Abstract: Model-free Reinforcement Learning (RL) offers an attractive approach to learn control policies for high dimensional systems, but its relatively poor sample complexity often necessitates training in simulated environments. Even in simulation, goal-directed tasks whose natural reward function is sparse remain intractable for state-of-the-art model-free algorithms for continuous control. The bottleneck in these tasks is the prohibitive amount of exploration required to obtain a learning signal from the initial state of the system. In this work, we leverage physical priors in the form of an approximate system dynamics model to design a curriculum for a model-free policy optimization algorithm. Our Backward Reachability Curriculum (BaRC) begins policy training from states that require a small number of actions to accomplish the task, and expands the initial state distribution backwards in a dynamically-consistent manner once the policy optimization algorithm demonstrates sufficient performance. BaRC is general, in that it can accelerate training of any model-free RL algorithm on a broad class of goal-directed continuous control MDPs. Its curriculum strategy is physically intuitive, easy-to-tune, and allows incorporating physical priors to accelerate training without hindering the performance, flexibility, and applicability of the model-free RL algorithm. We evaluate our approach on two representative dynamic robotic learning problems and find substantial performance improvement relative to previous curriculum generation techniques and naive exploration strategies.


Title: Navigating Dynamically Unknown Environments Leveraging Past Experience
Key Words: adaptive control  collision avoidance  mobile robots  navigation  autonomous robot navigation  unknown dynamic obstacles  real-time adaptive motion planner  robot motion online  sensed environmental data  limited sensing range  RAMP framework  probabilistic model  unknown dynamic environment  sensing information  RAMP robot  dynamic environment changes  unknown ways  learned probabilistic data  Hilbert maps framework  dynamically unknown environment navigation  Robot sensing systems  Trajectory  Sociology  Statistics  Planning 
Abstract: To enable autonomous robot navigation among unknown dynamic obstacles, a real-time adaptive motion planner (RAMP) plans the robot motion online based on sensing the environment as the robot moves with sensors mounted on the robot. However, the sensed environmental data from the robot's local view is usually incomplete due to occlusions from obstacles and limited sensing range.This paper incorporates learning about the environment into the RAMP framework by leveraging the Hilbert Maps framework to generate a probabilistic model of occupancy of the unknown dynamic environment based on past observations. Utilizing this probabilistic model enables RAMP to reason about trajectory fitness when sensing information is partial and incomplete. This allows the RAMP robot to take advantage of what it has experienced from being in the dynamic environment before to inform its subsequent executions even though the dynamic environment changes in unknown ways. The effectiveness of incorporating such learned probabilistic data into RAMP is shown in both simulation and real experiments.


Title: Acting Is Seeing: Navigating Tight Space Using Flapping Wings
Key Words: aerospace robotics  biomimetics  control system synthesis  feedback  mobile robots  navigation  path planning  robust control  torque control  flapping-wing robot  wing loading feedback  instantaneous wing loading  bio-inspired robotic flyers  torque control  tight space navigation  Purdu Hummingbird  flight stability  robust controller design  Robot sensing systems  DC motors  Navigation  Loading  Aerodynamics 
Abstract: Wings of flying animals can not only generate lift and control torques but also can sense their surroundings. Such dual functions of sensing and actuation coupled in one element are particularly useful for small sized bio-inspired robotic flyers, whose weight, size, and power are under stringent constraint. In this work, we present the first flapping-wing robot using its flapping wings for environmental perception and navigation in tight space, without the need for any visual feedback. As the test platform, we introduce the Purdu Hummingbird, a flapping-wing robot with 17cm wingspan and 12 grams weight, with a pair of 30-40Hz flapping wings driven by only two actuators. By interpreting the wing loading feedback and its variations, the vehicle can detect the presence of environmental changes such as grounds, walls, stairs, obstacles and wind gust. The instantaneous wing loading can be obtained through the measurements and interpretation of the current feedback by the motors that actuate the wings. The effectiveness of the proposed approach is experimentally demonstrated on several challenging flight tasks without vision: terrain following, wall following and going through a narrow corridor. To ensure flight stability, a robust controller was designed for handling unforeseen disturbances during the flight. Sensing and navigating one's environment through actuator loading is a promising method for mobile robots, and it can serve as an alternative or complementary method to visual perception.


Title: On-line 3D active pose-graph SLAM based on key poses using graph topology and sub-maps
Key Words: autonomous aerial vehicles  computational complexity  graph theory  mobile robots  optimisation  path planning  remotely operated vehicles  robot vision  SLAM (robots)  graph topology  pose-graph simultaneous localization  three-dimensional environments  D-optimality metrics  weighted node degree  T-optimality metric  sampling-based path  continuous-time trajectory optimization method  large-scale active SLAM problems  submap joining method  online 3D active pose-graph SLAM  Simultaneous localization and mapping  Measurement  Trajectory  Planning  Three-dimensional displays  Uncertainty 
Abstract: In this paper, we present an on-line active pose-graph simultaneous localization and mapping (SLAM) frame-work for robots in three-dimensional (3D) environments using graph topology and sub-maps. This framework aims to find the best trajectory for loop-closure by re-visiting old poses based on the T-optimality and D-optimality metrics of the Fisher information matrix (FIM) in pose-graph SLAM. In order to reduce computational complexity, graph topologies are introduced, including weighted node degree (T-optimality metric) and weighted tree-connectivity (D-optimality metric), to choose a candidate trajectory and several key poses. With the help of the key poses, a sampling-based path planning method and a continuous-time trajectory optimization method are combined hierarchically and applied in the whole framework. So as to further improve the real-time capability of the method, the sub-map joining method is used in the estimation and planning process for large-scale active SLAM problems. In simulations and experiments, we validate our approach by comparing against existing methods, and we demonstrate the on-line planning part using a quad-rotor unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV).


Title: Modeling and Planning Manipulation in Dynamic Environments
Key Words: collision avoidance  manipulator dynamics  mobile robots  pose estimation  robot vision  steering systems  kinodynamic manipulation planner  dynamic environments  robot dynamics  time-variant environments  manipulation modeling  manipulation planning  online collision avoidance  object pose estimation  steering functions  Planning  Task analysis  Collision avoidance  Manipulator dynamics  Grippers 
Abstract: In this paper we propose a new model for sequential manipulation tasks that also considers robot dynamics and time-variant environments. From this model we automatically derive constraint-based controllers and use them as steering functions in a kinodynamic manipulation planner. The resulting plan is not a trajectory but a sequence of controllers that react online to disturbances. We validated our approach in simulation and on a real robot. In the experiments our approach plans and executes dual-robot manipulation tasks with online collision avoidance and reactions to estimates of object poses.


Title: Efficient Obstacle Rearrangement for Object Manipulation Tasks in Cluttered Environments
Key Words: collision avoidance  computational complexity  manipulators  mobile robots  navigation  object manipulation tasks  cluttered environments  robotic manipulator  constrained confined space  collision-free path  object rearrangement  NP-hard  service domains  collision avoidance scheme  mobile robot navigation  object poses  obstacle rearrangement  polynomial time  Histograms  Planning  Task analysis  Grasping  End effectors 
Abstract: We present an algorithm that produces a plan for relocating obstacles in order to grasp a target in clutter by a robotic manipulator without collisions. We consider configurations where objects are densely populated in a constrained and confined space. Thus, there exists no collision-free path for the manipulator without relocating obstacles. Since the problem of planning for object rearrangement has shown to be NP-hard, it is difficult to perform manipulation tasks efficiently which could frequently happen in service domains (e.g., taking out a target from a shelf or a fridge). Our proposed planner employs a collision avoidance scheme which has been widely used in mobile robot navigation. The planner determines an obstacle to be removed quickly in real time. It also can deal with dynamic changes in the configuration (e.g., changes in object poses). Our method is shown to be complete and runs in polynomial time. Experimental results in a realistic simulated environment show that our method improves up to 31% of the execution time compared to other competitors.


Title: MoveIt! Task Constructor for Task-Level Motion Planning
Key Words: manipulators  path planning  robotic manipulation actions  Task Constructor framework  black-box planning stages  task-level motion planning  robotic manipulation framework  MoveIt!  Planning  Task analysis  Robots  Trajectory  Containers  Generators  Collision avoidance 
Abstract: A lot of motion planning research in robotics focuses on efficient means to find trajectories between individual start and goal regions, but it remains challenging to specify and plan robotic manipulation actions which consist of multiple interdependent subtasks. The Task Constructor framework we present in this work provides a flexible and transparent way to define and plan such actions, enhancing the capabilities of the popular robotic manipulation framework MoveIt!.11The Task Constructor framework is publicly available at https://github.com/ros-planning/moveit_task_constructor Subproblems are solved in isolation in black-box planning stages and a common interface is used to pass solution hypotheses between stages. The framework enables the hierarchical organization of basic stages using containers, allowing for sequential as well as parallel compositions. The flexibility of the framework is illustrated in multiple scenarios performed on various robot platforms, including bimanual ones.


Title: Large-Scale Multi-Object Rearrangement
Key Words: iterative methods  optimisation  robot vision  search problems  robotic tabletop rearrangement system  high packing factor forces  simulated pushing actions  vision system  iterated local search technique  large-scale multiobject rearrangement  Planning  Task analysis  Grasping  Robots  Annealing  Trajectory  Markov processes 
Abstract: This paper describes a new robotic tabletop rearrangement system, and presents experimental results. The tasks involve rearranging as many as 30 to 100 blocks, sometimes packed with a density of up to 40%. The high packing factor forces the system to push several objects at a time, making accurate simulation difficult, if not impossible. Nonetheless, the system achieves goals specifying the pose of every object, with an average precision of ± 1 mm and ± 2°. The system searches through policy rollouts of simulated pushing actions, using an Iterated Local Search technique to escape local minima. In real world execution, the system executes just one action from a policy, then uses a vision system to update the estimated task state, and replans. The system accepts a fully general description of task goals, which means it can solve the singulation and separation problems addressed in prior work, but can also solve sorting problems and spell out words, among other things. The paper includes examples of several solved problems, statistical analysis of the system's behavior on different types of problems, and some discussion of limitations, insights, and future work.


Title: Versatile Reactive Bipedal Locomotion Planning Through Hierarchical Optimization
Key Words: control nonlinearities  humanoid robots  legged locomotion  linear systems  motion control  nonlinear control systems  optimisation  path planning  pendulums  predictive control  robot dynamics  step frequency  humanoid robots  hierarchical optimization  angular momentum  nonlinear model predictive control  reactive bipedal locomotion planning  nonlinearities  walking dynamics  step time abilities  step location adjustment  Center of Mass height variation  linear inverted pendulum model  robot gait generation  Legged locomotion  Optimization  Trajectory  Humanoid robots  Linear programming  Dynamics 
Abstract: When experiencing disturbances during locomotion, human beings use several strategies to maintain balance, e.g. changing posture, modulating step frequency and location. However, when it comes to the gait generation for humanoid robots, modifying step time or body posture in real time introduces nonlinearities in the walking dynamics, thus increases the complexity of the planning. In this paper, we propose a two-layer hierarchical optimization framework to address this issue and provide the humanoids with the abilities of step time and step location adjustment, Center of Mass (CoM) height variation and angular momentum adaptation. In the first layer, times and locations of consecutive two steps are modulated online based on the current CoM state using the Linear Inverted Pendulum Model. By introducing new optimization variables to substitute the hyperbolic functions of step time, the derivatives of the objective function and feasibility constraints are analytically derived, thus reduces the computational cost. Then, taking the generated horizontal CoM trajectory, step times and step locations as inputs, CoM height and angular momentum changes are optimized by the second layer nonlinear model predictive control. This whole procedure will be repeated until the termination condition is met. The improved recovery capability under external disturbances is validated in simulation studies.


Title: Learning Wheel Odometry and IMU Errors for Localization
Key Words: cameras  distance measurement  Gaussian processes  image filtering  Kalman filters  learning (artificial intelligence)  mobile robots  nonlinear filters  path planning  robot vision  wheel odometry  IMU errors  odometry techniques  autonomous robot navigation  robust odometry system  camera  deep learning  variational inference  observation models  state-space systems  Gaussian processes  ground truth  wheel encoders  fiber optic gyro  EKF  wheel speed sensors  inertial measurement unit  extended Kalman filter  Wheels  Kernel  Mobile robots  Sensors  Gaussian processes  Training  Gaussian process  odometry estimation  variational inference  Kalman filter 
Abstract: Odometry techniques are key to autonomous robot navigation, since they enable self-localization in the environment. However, designing a robust odometry system is particularly challenging when camera and LiDAR are uninformative or unavailable. In this paper, we leverage recent advances in deep learning and variational inference to correct dynamical and observation models for state-space systems. The methodology trains Gaussian processes on the residual between the original model and the ground truth, and is applied on publicly available datasets for robot navigation based on two wheel encoders, a fiber optic gyro, and an Inertial Measurement Unit (IMU). We also propose to build an Extended Kalman Filter (EKF) on the learned model using wheel speed sensors and the fiber optic gyro for state propagation, and the IMU to update the estimated state. Experimental results clearly demonstrate that the (learned) corrected models and EKF are more accurate than their original counterparts.


Title: Four-Wheeled Dead-Reckoning Model Calibration using RTS Smoothing
Key Words: automobiles  calibration  inertial navigation  Kalman filters  mobile robots  navigation  path planning  remotely operated vehicles  sensor fusion  smoothing methods  state estimation  RTS smoothing  autonomous vehicles  accurate dead-reckoning system  car-like vehicles  complementary sensors  redundant sensors  wheel encoders  yaw rate gyro  steering wheel measurements  ground truth  smoothing scheme  smoothed estimates  model parameters  experimental vehicle  public roads  dead-reckoning drift  commonly used calibration method  dead reckoning system  four-wheeled dead-reckoning model calibration  complex maneuvers  public traffic  Wheels  Sensors  Smoothing methods  Global navigation satellite system  Calibration  Dead reckoning  Radio frequency 
Abstract: Localization is one of the main challenges to be addressed to develop autonomous vehicles able to perform complex maneuvers on roads opened to public traffic. Having an accurate dead-reckoning system is an essential step to reach this objective. This paper presents a dead-reckoning model for car-like vehicles that performs the data fusion of complementary and redundant sensors: wheel encoders, yaw rate gyro and steering wheel measurements. In order to get an accurate dead-reckoning system with a drift reduced to the minimum, the parameters have to be well calibrated and the procedure has to be simple and efficient. We present a method able to accurately calibrate the parameters without knowing the ground truth by using a Rauch-Tung-Striebel smoothing scheme which enables to obtain state estimates as close to the ground truth as possible. The smoothed estimates are then used within a optimization process to calibrate the model parameters. The method has been tested using data recorded from an experimental vehicle on public roads. The results show a significant diminution of the dead-reckoning drift compared to a commonly used calibration method. We evaluate finally the average distance a vehicle can navigate without exteroceptive sensors by using the proposed four-wheeled dead reckoning system.


Title: ModQuad-Vi: A Vision-Based Self-Assembling Modular Quadrotor
Key Words: autonomous aerial vehicles  indoor radio  mobile robots  path planning  pose estimation  robot vision  self-assembly  relative pose estimation  local estimation  self-assembly process  external systems  ModQuad-Vi  flying modular robot  robot design  vision-based docking method  docking actions  aerial modular system  vision-based self-assembling modular quadrotor  temporary structures  indoor infrastructures  Robot kinematics  Acceleration  Rotors  Force  Trajectory  Navigation 
Abstract: Flying modular robots have the potential to rapidly form temporary structures. In the literature, docking actions rely on external systems and indoor infrastructures for relative pose estimation. In contrast to related work, we provide local estimation during the self-assembly process to avoid dependency on external systems. In this paper, we introduce ModQuad-Vi, a flying modular robot that is aimed to operate in outdoor environments. We propose a new robot design and vision-based docking method. Our design is based on a quadrotor platform with onboard computation and visual perception. Our control method is able to accurately align modules for docking actions. Additionally, we present the dynamics and a geometric controller for the aerial modular system. Experiments validate the vision-based docking method with successful results.


Title: Intent-Uncertainty-Aware Grasp Planning for Robust Robot Assistance in Telemanipulation
Key Words: dexterous manipulators  grippers  mobile robots  motion control  path planning  telerobotics  intent-uncertainty-aware grasp planning  robust robot assistance  robot agent  motion assistance  target approaching process  fine motion constraints  ambiguous human motion  robot hands  planning techniques  human motion input  multitask robot  intent-uncertainty-aware grasp planner  robust grasp  ambiguous human intent inference inputs  teleoperated robots  object manipulation task  Task analysis  Robots  Planning  Uncertainty  Handover  Grasping 
Abstract: Promoting a robot agent's autonomy level, which allows it to understand the human operator's intent and provide motion assistance to achieve it, has demonstrated great advantages to the operator's intent in teleoperation. However, the research has been limited to the target approaching process. We advance the shared control technique one step further to deal with the more challenging object manipulation task. Appropriately manipulating an object is challenging as it requires fine motion constraints for a certain manipulation task. Although these motion constraints are critical for task success, they are subtle to observe from ambiguous human motion. The disembodiment problem and physical discrepancy between the human and robot hands bring additional uncertainty, make the object manipulation task more challenging. Moreover, there is a lack of modeling and planning techniques that can effectively combine the human motion input and robot agent's motion input while accounting for the ambiguity of the human intent. To overcome this challenge, we built a multi-task robot grasping model and developed an intent-uncertainty-aware grasp planner to generate robust grasp poses given the ambiguous human intent inference inputs. With this validated modeling and planning techniques, it is expected to extend teleoperated robots' functionality and adoption in practical telemanipulation scenarios.


Title: Stability Optimization of Two-Fingered Anthropomorphic Hands for Precision Grasping with a Single Actuator
Key Words: actuators  biomechanics  dexterous manipulators  grippers  prosthetics  link length ratios  anthropomorphic design parameters  grasp planning applications  optimal configuration  heuristically evaluated optimal solutions  post-contact system work  upper limb prosthetic design  palm width  joint stiffness ratios  transmission ratios  post-contact stability  constrained optimization framework  single actuator  precision grasping  two-fingered anthropomorphic hands  stability optimization  Force  Grasping  Actuators  Tendons  Optimization  Stability criteria 
Abstract: In this paper, we present a constrained optimization framework for evaluating the post-contact stability of underactuated precision grasping configurations with a single degree of actuation. Relationships between key anthropomorphic design parameters including link length ratios, transmission ratios, joint stiffness ratios and palm width are developed with applications in upper limb prosthetic design. In addition to grasp stability, we examine post-contact system work, to reduce reconfiguration, and consider the range of objects that can be stably grasped. External wrenches were simulated on a subset of the heuristically evaluated optimal solutions and an optimal configuration was experimentally tested to determine favorable wrench resistible gripper orientations for grasp planning applications.


Title: CartesI/O: A ROS Based Real-Time Capable Cartesian Control Framework
Key Words: control engineering computing  humanoid robots  legged locomotion  motion control  robot dynamics  robot kinematics  telerobotics  robotics platforms  simple auto-generated ROS-based interface  motion control frameworks  ROS MoveIt  Cartesian trajectories  locomotion tasks  COMAN + humanoid robot  redundant robots  motion tasks  multilegged highly redundant robots  Cartesian control framework  Task analysis  Robot kinematics  Real-time systems  Libraries  C++ languages  Planning 
Abstract: This work introduces a framework for the Cartesian control of multi-legged, highly redundant robots. The proposed framework allows the untrained user to perform complex motion tasks with robotics platforms by leveraging a simple, auto-generated ROS-based interface. Contrary to other motion control frameworks (e.g. ROS MoveIt!), we focus on the execution of Cartesian trajectories that are specified online, rather than planned in advance, as it is the case, for instance, in tele-operation and locomotion tasks. Moreover, we address the problem of generating such motions within a hard real-time (RT) control loop. Finally, we demonstrate the capabilities of our framework both on the COMAN + humanoid robot, and on the hybrid wheeled-legged quadruped CENTAURO.


Title: Motion Planning Templates: A Motion Planning Framework for Robots with Low-power CPUs
Key Words: control engineering computing  data structures  graph theory  humanoid robots  mobile robots  path planning  low-power CPU  template-based library  compile-time polymorphism  robot-specific motion planning code  robot software  motion planning problem  general motion planning implementations  motion planning graph  compile-time algorithms  motion planning scenarios  humanoid robot  3D rigid-body motions  motion planning framework  MPT  motion planning templates  Planning  Runtime  C++ languages  Libraries  Data structures  Mobile robots 
Abstract: Motion Planning Templates (MPT) is a C++ template-based library that uses compile-time polymorphism to generate robot-specific motion planning code and is geared towards eking out as much performance as possible when running on the low-power CPU of a battery-powered small robot. To use MPT, developers of robot software write or leverage code specific to their robot platform and motion planning problem, and then have MPT generate a robot-specific motion planner and its associated data-structures. The resulting motion planner implementation is faster and uses less memory than general motion planning implementations based upon runtime polymorphism. While MPT loses runtime flexibility, it gains advantages associated with compile-time polymorphism- including the ability to change scalar precision, generate tightly-packed data structures, and store robot-specific data in the motion planning graph. MPT also uses compile-time algorithms to resolve the algorithm implementation, and select the best nearest neighbor algorithm to integrate into it. We demonstrate MPT's performance, lower memory footprint, and ability to adapt to varying robots in motion planning scenarios on a small humanoid robot and on 3D rigid-body motions.


Title: Robust Object-based SLAM for High-speed Autonomous Navigation
Key Words: cameras  helicopters  image sequences  image texture  mobile robots  object detection  path planning  robot vision  SLAM (robots)  ROSHAN  object-level mapping  ellipsoid-based SLAM  object surface  autonomous quadrotor  bounding box detections  median shape error  forward-moving camera sequence  planar constraint  vehicle motions  semantic knowledge  robust object-based SLAM for high-speed autonomous navigation  Ellipsoids  Image edge detection  Semantics  Simultaneous localization and mapping  Cameras  Shape  Shape measurement 
Abstract: We present Robust Object-based SLAM for High-speed Autonomous Navigation (ROSHAN), a novel approach to object-level mapping suitable for autonomous navigation. In ROSHAN, we represent objects as ellipsoids and infer their parameters using three sources of information - bounding box detections, image texture, and semantic knowledge - to overcome the observability problem in ellipsoid-based SLAM under common forward-translating vehicle motions. Each bounding box provides four planar constraints on an object surface and we add a fifth planar constraint using the texture on the objects along with a semantic prior on the shape of ellipsoids. We demonstrate ROSHAN in simulation where we outperform the baseline, reducing the median shape error by 83% and the median position error by 72% in a forward-moving camera sequence. We demonstrate similar qualitative result on data collected on a fast-moving autonomous quadrotor.


Title: Flight Testing Boustrophedon Coverage Path Planning for Fixed Wing UAVs in Wind
Key Words: aerospace components  autonomous aerial vehicles  mobile robots  path planning  remotely operated vehicles  wind  flight test results  model prediction  multirotor UAV  boustrophedon coverage path planning  flight path  aerial surveys  complex concave agricultural fields  flight time  wind prediction model  cost function  wind field measurements  fixed wing UAV  Wind  Aircraft  Robot sensing systems  Mathematical model  Atmospheric modeling  Path planning  Predictive models  Aerial Surveying  Coverage Path Planning  Remote Sensing  Boustrophedon paths  Wind  Trochoids 
Abstract: A method was previously developed by this author to optimise the flight path of a fixed wing UAV performing aerial surveys of complex concave agricultural fields. This relies heavily on a flight time in wind prediction model as its cost function. This paper aims to validate this model by comparing flight test results with the model prediction. There are a number of assumptions that this model relies on. The major assumption is that wind is steady and uniform over the small area and time scales involved in a survey. To show that this is reasonable, wind fields measurements will be taken from a multi rotor UAV with an ultrasonic windspeed sensor.


Title: Obstacle-aware Adaptive Informative Path Planning for UAV-based Target Search
Key Words: aircraft control  autonomous aerial vehicles  collision avoidance  Gaussian processes  mobile robots  object detection  robot vision  target occupancy  UAV-based target search  Gaussian process based model  flight time constraints  planning strategy  obstacle-aware adaptive informative path planning algorithm  target detection  unmanned aerial vehicles  collision avoidance  Planning  Search problems  Three-dimensional displays  Optimization  Trajectory  Unmanned aerial vehicles  Robot sensing systems 
Abstract: Target search with unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs) is relevant problem to many scenarios, e.g., search and rescue (SaR). However, a key challenge is planning paths for maximal search efficiency given flight time constraints. To address this, we propose the Obstacle-aware Adaptive Informative Path Planning (OA-IPP) algorithm for target search in cluttered environments using UAVs. Our approach leverages a layered planning strategy using a Gaussian Process (GP)based model of target occupancy to generate informative paths in continuous 3D space. Within this framework, we introduce an adaptive replanning scheme which allows us to trade off between information gain, field coverage, sensor performance, and collision avoidance for efficient target detection. Extensive simulations show that our OA-IPP method performs better than state-of-the-art planners, and we demonstrate its application in a realistic urban SaR scenario.


Title: Real-Time Planning with Multi-Fidelity Models for Agile Flights in Unknown Environments
Key Words: autonomous aerial vehicles  collision avoidance  mobile robots  sensors  low-fidelity models  fast planner  planning framework  agile flights  replanning times  cluttered environments  multifidelity models  autonomous navigation  real-time localization  lightweight sensing  planning methodologies  hierarchical planning architecture  low-fidelity global planner  high-fidelity local planner  erratic behavior  unstable behavior  global plan  higher-order dynamics  real-time planning  sensor data  collision check  UAV  time 5.0 ms to 40.0 ms  Planning  Trajectory  Computational modeling  Vehicle dynamics  Robot sensing systems  Optimization 
Abstract: Autonomous navigation through unknown environments is a challenging task that entails real-time localization, perception, planning, and control. UAVs with this capability have begun to emerge in the literature with advances in lightweight sensing and computing. Although the planning methodologies vary from platform to platform, many algorithms adopt a hierarchical planning architecture where a slow, low-fidelity global planner guides a fast, high-fidelity local planner. However, in unknown environments, this approach can lead to erratic or unstable behavior due to the interaction between the global planner, whose solution is changing constantly, and the local planner; a consequence of not capturing higher-order dynamics in the global plan. This work proposes a planning framework in which multi-fidelity models are used to reduce the discrepancy between the local and global planner. Our approach uses high-, medium-, and low-fidelity models to compose a path that captures higher-order dynamics while remaining computationally tractable. In addition, we address the interaction between a fast planner and a slower mapper by considering the sensor data not yet fused into the map during the collision check. This novel mapping and planning framework for agile flights is validated in simulation and hardware experiments, showing replanning times of 5-40 ms in cluttered environments.


Title: Efficient Trajectory Planning for High Speed Flight in Unknown Environments
Key Words: aircraft control  autonomous aerial vehicles  closed loop systems  collision avoidance  inertial navigation  mobile robots  motion control  optimal control  predictive control  sampling methods  trajectory control  motion planning  motion capture systems  receding horizon planning architecture  reactive obstacle avoidance  closed-form trajectory generation method  spatial partitioning data structures  obstacle density  sampling-based motion planner  minimum-jerk trajectories  closed-loop tracking  high-speed flight  autonomous quadrotor flights  urban environment  trajectory planning  visual-inertial navigation  distance 22.0 km  Trajectory  Planning  Sensors  Three-dimensional displays  Cameras  Vehicle dynamics  Tracking 
Abstract: There has been considerable recent work in motion planning for UAVs to enable aggressive, highly dynamic flight in known environments with motion capture systems. However, these existing planners have not been shown to enable the same kind of flight in unknown, outdoor environments. In this paper we present a receding horizon planning architecture that enables the fast replanning necessary for reactive obstacle avoidance by combining three techniques. First, we show how previous work in computationally efficient, closed-form trajectory generation method can be coupled with spatial partitioning data structures to reason about the geometry of the environment in real-time. Second, we show how to maintain safety margins during fast flight in unknown environments by planning velocities according to obstacle density. Third, our receding-horizon, sampling-based motion planner uses minimum-jerk trajectories and closed-loop tracking to enable smooth, robust, high-speed flight with the low angular rates necessary for accurate visual-inertial navigation. We compare against two state-of-the-art, reactive motion planners in simulation and benchmark solution quality against an offline global planner. Finally, we demonstrate our planner over 80 flights with a combined distance of 22km of autonomous quadrotor flights in an urban environment at speeds up to 9.4ms $^{-1}$.


Title: Priority Maps for Surveillance and Intervention of Wildfires and other Spreading Processes
Key Words: autonomous aerial vehicles  optimisation  path planning  wildfires  priority maps  wildfires  knowledge reward function  dynamic spreading processes  surveillance  bushfire spreading dynamics  wildfire intervention  unmanned aerial vehicle  optimization framework  UAV path planning  Mathematical model  Surveillance  Stochastic processes  Unmanned aerial vehicles  Path planning  Vehicle dynamics  Computational modeling 
Abstract: Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV) path planning algorithms often assume a knowledge reward function or priority map, indicating the most important areas to visit. In this paper we propose a method to create priority maps for monitoring or intervention of dynamic spreading processes such as wildfires. The presented optimization framework utilizes the properties of positive systems, in particular the separable structure of value (cost-to-go) functions, to provide scalable algorithms for surveillance and intervention. We present results obtained for a 16 and 1000 node example and convey how the priority map responds to changes in the dynamics of the system. The larger example of 1000 nodes, representing a fictional landscape, shows how the method can integrate bushfire spreading dynamics, landscape and wind conditions. Finally, we give an example of combining the proposed method with a travelling salesman problem for UAV path planning for wildfire intervention.


Title: A Data-Efficient Framework for Training and Sim-to-Real Transfer of Navigation Policies
Key Words: gradient methods  image coding  learning (artificial intelligence)  mobile robots  path planning  data-efficient framework  sim-to-real transfer  navigation policies  effective visuomotor policies  learning-based system  manual tuning  robot operating  training process  leverage simulation  off-policy data  initial image  lower dimensional latent state  planner modules  meta-learning strategy  adversarial domain transfer  simulated environments  similarly distributed latent representation  fine tuning  encoder + planner  planning performances  navigation tasks  unlabelled random images  Robots  Data models  Planning  Task analysis  Trajectory  Training  Navigation 
Abstract: Learning effective visuomotor policies for robots purely from data is challenging, but also appealing since a learning-based system should not require manual tuning or calibration. In the case of a robot operating in a real environment the training process can be costly, time-consuming, and even dangerous since failures are common at the start of training. For this reason, it is desirable to be able to leverage simulation and off-policy data to the extent possible to train the robot. In this work, we introduce a robust framework that plans in simulation and transfers well to the real environment. Our model incorporates a gradient-descent based planning module, which, given the initial image and goal image, encodes the images to a lower dimensional latent state and plans a trajectory to reach the goal. The model, consisting of the encoder and planner modules, is first trained through a meta-learning strategy in simulation. We subsequently perform adversarial domain transfer on the encoder by using a bank of unlabelled but random images from the simulation and real environments to enable the encoder to map images from the real and simulated environments to a similarly distributed latent representation. By fine tuning the entire model (encoder + planner) with only a few real world expert demonstrations, we show successful planning performances in different navigation tasks.


Title: Towards Learning Abstract Representations for Locomotion Planning in High-dimensional State Spaces
Key Words: convolutional neural nets  learning (artificial intelligence)  mobile robots  neurocontrollers  path planning  cost function  search-based planning  hybrid driving-stepping locomotion  locomotion planning  high-dimensional state spaces  ground robots  ground structure  movable body parts  robot representation  Planning  Robots  Cost function  Task analysis  Search problems  Acceleration  Tuning 
Abstract: Ground robots which are able to navigate a variety of terrains are needed in many domains. One of the key aspects is the capability to adapt to the ground structure, which can be realized through movable body parts coming along with additional degrees of freedom (DoF). However, planning respective locomotion is challenging since suitable representations result in large state spaces. Employing an additional abstract representation-which is coarser, lower-dimensional, and semantically enriched-can support the planning. While a desired robot representation and action set of such an abstract representation can be easily defined, the cost function requires large tuning efforts. We propose a method to represent the cost function as a CNN. Training of the network is done on generated artificial data, while it generalizes well to the abstraction of real world scenes. We further apply our method to the problem of search-based planning of hybrid driving-stepping locomotion. The abstract representation is used as a powerful informed heuristic which accelerates planning by multiple orders of magnitude.


Title: Fast Stochastic Functional Path Planning in Occupancy Maps
Key Words: computational complexity  Gaussian processes  optimisation  path planning  robots  sampling methods  trajectory control  occupancy map  stochastic trajectory optimiser  Gaussian process path representation  trajectory optimisation  fast stochastic functional path planning  path planners  highly expressive path representation  sampling-based planners  fully defined artificial potential field  partially observed model  cubic complexity  kernel approximation  computational complexity  stochastic sampling  sampling-based methods  Planning  Optimization  Trajectory  Kernel  Robots  Stochastic processes 
Abstract: Path planners are generally categorised as either trajectory optimisers or sampling-based planners. The latter is the predominant planning paradigm for occupancy maps. Most trajectory optimisers require a fully defined artificial potential field for planning and cannot incorporate updates from a partially observed model such as an occupancy map. A stochastic trajectory optimiser capable of planning over occupancy map was presented in [1]. However, its scalability is limited by the cubic complexity of the Gaussian process path representation. In this work, we introduce a novel highly expressive path representation based on kernel approximation to perform trajectory optimisation over occupancy maps. This approach reduces the computational complexity to a fixed cost that only depends on the number of features. We show that stochastic sampling is crucial for planning in occupancy maps and present comparisons to other state-of-the-art planning methods, using simulated and real occupancy data. These experiments demonstrate the significant reduction in runtime, resulting in performance comparable to or better than sampling-based methods.


Title: A Scalable Framework For Real-Time Multi-Robot, Multi-Human Collision Avoidance
Key Words: collision avoidance  human-robot interaction  multi-robot systems  robust control  trajectory control  robust motion planning  robotics literature  robot navigation  high-order system dynamics  confidence-aware human motion predictions  sequential priority ordering  trajectory planning  multirobot multihuman collision avoidance  Planning  Trajectory  Robot sensing systems  Robot kinematics  Predictive models  Real-time systems 
Abstract: Robust motion planning is a well-studied problem in the robotics literature, yet current algorithms struggle to operate scalably and safely in the presence of other moving agents, such as humans. This paper introduces a novel framework for robot navigation that accounts for high-order system dynamics and maintains safety in the presence of external disturbances, other robots, and humans. Our approach precomputes a tracking error margin for each robot, generates confidence-aware human motion predictions, and coordinates multiple robots with a sequential priority ordering, effectively enabling scalable safe trajectory planning and execution. We demonstrate our approach in hardware with two robots and two humans, and showcase scalability in a larger simulation.


Title: Lazy Evaluation of Goal Specifications Guided by Motion Planning
Key Words: mobile robots  motion control  path planning  lazy evaluation  collaborative environments  robot motion commands  delayed grounding  lazy variable grounding  motion planning algorithm  semantic interpretation  goal specifications  reward-penalty strategy  Semantics  Planning  Robot kinematics  Grounding  Automobiles  Collaboration 
Abstract: Nowadays robotic systems are expected to share workspaces and collaborate with humans. In such collaborative environments, an important challenge is to ground or establish the correct semantic interpretation of a human request. Once such an interpretation is available, the request must be translated into robot motion commands in order to complete the desired task. It is not unusual that a human request cannot be grounded to a unique interpretation, thus leading to an ambiguous request. A simple example is to ask a robot to “put a cup on the table,” when there are multiple cups available. In order to deal with this kind of ambiguous request, we propose a delayed or lazy variable grounding. The focus of this paper is a motion planning algorithm that, given goal regions that represent different valid groundings, lazily finds a feasible path to any one valid grounding. This algorithm includes a reward-penalty strategy, which attempts to prioritize those goal regions that seem more promising to provide a solution. We validate our approach by solving requests with multiple valid alternatives in both simulation and real-world experiments.


Title: Reconfigurable Motion Planning and Control in Obstacle Cluttered Environments under Timed Temporal Tasks
Key Words: collision avoidance  convex programming  formal verification  mobile robots  motion control  path planning  temporal logic  high-level specification  timed temporal logic formula  obstacle avoidance  motion controller  safe navigation  transition system  standard formal verification  convex optimization techniques  reconfigurable motion planning  obstacle cluttered environments  timed temporal tasks  robot navigation  hybrid control strategy  temporal specifications  agent motion abstraction  Clocks  Task analysis  Planning  Navigation  Automata 
Abstract: This work addresses the problem of robot navigation under timed temporal specifications in workspaces cluttered with obstacles. We propose a hybrid control strategy that guarantees the accomplishment of a high-level specification expressed as a timed temporal logic formula, while preserving safety (i.e., obstacle avoidance) of the system. In particular, we utilize a motion controller that achieves safe navigation inside the workspace in predetermined time, thus allowing us to abstract the motion of the agent as a finite timed transition system among certain regions of interest. Next, we employ standard formal verification and convex optimization techniques to derive high-level timed plans that satisfy the agent's specifications. A simulation study illustrates and clarifies the proposed scheme.


Title: An Algorithm for Odor Source Localization based on Source Term Estimation
Key Words: estimation theory  Markov processes  mobile robots  path planning  wind tunnels  odor source localization  source term estimation  airborne chemicals  mobile sensing systems  navigation method  partially observable Markov decision processes  wind tunnel  Robot sensing systems  Estimation  Navigation  Probabilistic logic  Heuristic algorithms  Mobile robots 
Abstract: Finding sources of airborne chemicals with mobile sensing systems finds applications across the security, safety, domestic, medical, and environmental domains. In this paper, we present an algorithm based on source term estimation for odor source localization that is coupled with a navigation method based on partially observable Markov decision processes. We propose an innovative strategy to balance exploration and exploitation in navigation. The method has been evaluated systematically through high-fidelity simulations and in a wind tunnel emulating realistic and repeatable conditions. The impact of multiple algorithmic and environmental parameters has been studied in the experiments.


Title: Feasible coordination of multiple homogeneous or heterogeneous mobile vehicles with various constraints
Key Words: algebra  mobile robots  motion control  multi-robot systems  path planning  nonholonomic motion constraints  holonomic coordination constraints  differential-algebraic equations  viability theory  coordinated motion control  heterogeneous vehicle dynamics  multivehicle coordination  control schemes  coordination control  heterogeneous mobile vehicles  Task analysis  Kinematics  Mathematical model  Vehicle dynamics  Trajectory  Tools 
Abstract: We consider the problem of feasible coordination control for multiple homogeneous or heterogeneous mobile vehicles subject to various constraints (nonholonomic motion constraints, holonomic coordination constraints, equality/inequality constraints etc). We develop a general framework involving differential-algebraic equations and viability theory to describe and determine coordination feasibility for a coordinated motion control under heterogeneous vehicle dynamics and various constraints. A heuristic algorithm is proposed for generating feasible trajectories for each individual vehicle. We show several application examples and simulation experiments on multi-vehicle coordination under various constraints to validate the theory and the effectiveness of the proposed algorithm and control schemes.


Title: Turn-minimizing multirobot coverage
Key Words: minimisation  mobile robots  multi-robot systems  path planning  travelling salesman problems  turn-minimizing multirobot coverage  identical robots  mission time  robot  multiple travelling salesperson problem  coverage plans  robotic vacuum  turn minimization  coverage time  path planning  partitioning heuristic  coverage plan  multirobot coverage  Robots  Tools  Turning  Minimization  Shape  Merging  Planning 
Abstract: Multirobot coverage is the problem of planning paths for several identical robots such that the combined regions traced out by the robots completely cover their environment. We consider the problem of multirobot coverage with the objective of minimizing the mission time, which depends on the number of turns taken by the robots. To solve this problem, we first partition the environment into ranks which are long thin rectangles the width of the robot's coverage tool. Our novel partitioning heuristic produces a set of ranks which minimizes the number of turns. Next, we solve a variant of the multiple travelling salesperson problem (m-TSP) on the set of ranks to minimize the robots' mission time. The resulting coverage plan is guaranteed to cover the entire environment. We present coverage plans for a robotic vacuum using real maps of 25 indoor environments and compare the solutions to paths planned without the objective of minimizing turns. Turn minimization reduced the number of turns by 6.7% and coverage time by 3.8% on average for teams of 1-5 robots.


Title: Efficient Kinodynamic Multi-Robot Replanning in Known Workspaces
Key Words: collision avoidance  graph theory  iterative methods  mobile robots  multi-robot systems  reachability analysis  robot dynamics  trajectory control  known workspaces  online centralized kinodynamic multirobot replanning  offline state lattice reachability analysis  explicit geometric graph  higher-order derivatives  geometric paths  kinodynamic multirobot replanning  sequential graph searches  iterative refinement procedures  Planning  Trajectory  Libraries  Lattices  Collision avoidance  Robot kinematics 
Abstract: In this work, we consider the problem of online centralized kinodynamic multi-robot replanning (from potentially non-stationary initial states) and coordination in known and cluttered workspaces. Offline state lattice reachability analysis is leveraged to decouple the planning problem into two sequential graph searches-one in the explicit geometric graph of the environment and the other in the graph of the higher-order derivatives of the robot's state-in a manner such that the intermediate vertices of a safe set of geometric paths are guaranteed to have a feasible assignment of higher-order derivatives. Without additional iterative refinement procedures, the resulting time parameterized polynomial trajectories are dynamically feasible and collision-free. Planning results with up to 20 robots in two and three dimensional workspaces suggest the suitability of the proposed approach for multi-robot replanning in known environments.


Title: Propagation Networks for Model-Based Control Under Partial Observation
Key Words: learning (artificial intelligence)  mobile robots  off-the-shelf physics engines  interaction networks  pairwise interactions  propagation networks  differentiable dynamics model  learnable dynamics model  partially observable scenarios  model-based control  deep reinforcement learning algorithms  robot planning  PropNet  Engines  Task analysis  Force  Robots  Computational modeling  Adaptation models 
Abstract: There has been an increasing interest in learning dynamics simulators for model-based control. Compared with off-the-shelf physics engines, a learnable simulator can quickly adapt to unseen objects, scenes, and tasks. However, existing models like interaction networks only work for fully observable systems; they also only consider pairwise interactions within a single time step, both restricting their use in practical systems. We introduce Propagation Networks (PropNet), a differentiable, learnable dynamics model that handles partially observable scenarios and enables instantaneous propagation of signals beyond pairwise interactions. With these innovations, our propagation networks not only outperform current learnable physics engines in forward simulation, but also achieves superior performance on various control tasks. Compared with existing deep reinforcement learning algorithms, model-based control with propagation networks is more accurate, efficient, and generalizable to novel, partially observable scenes and tasks.


Title: Learning Robust Manipulation Strategies with Multimodal State Transition Models and Recovery Heuristics
Key Words: control engineering computing  learning (artificial intelligence)  manipulator dynamics  mobile robots  optimisation  robot programming  contact dynamics  reinforcement learning  recovery skills  multiple contact state changes  multimodal state transition model  recovery heuristics  contact-based manipulations  robust manipulation strategies learning  skill selections  Task analysis  End effectors  Robustness  Data models  Planning  Clustering algorithms 
Abstract: Robots are prone to making mistakes when performing manipulation tasks in unstructured environments. Robust policies are thus needed to not only avoid mistakes but also to recover from them. We propose a framework for increasing the robustness of contact-based manipulations by modeling the task structure and optimizing a policy for selecting skills and recovery skills. A multimodal state transition model is acquired based on the contact dynamics of the task and the observed transitions. A policy is then learned from the model using reinforcement learning. The policy is incrementally improved by expanding the action space by generating recovery skills with a heuristic. Evaluations on three simulated manipulation tasks demonstrate the effectiveness of the framework. The robot was able to complete the tasks despite multiple contact state changes and errors encountered, increasing the success rate averaged across the tasks from 70.0% to 95.3%.


Title: Accounting for Part Pose Estimation Uncertainties during Trajectory Generation for Part Pick-Up Using Mobile Manipulators
Key Words: grippers  learning (artificial intelligence)  mobile robots  optimisation  path planning  pose estimation  position control  probability  mobile base trajectory  active learning based approach  optimization-based framework  time-optimal trajectories  part pose estimation uncertainties  trajectory generation  part pick-up  mobile manipulators  operation time  gripper  Grippers  Grasping  Trajectory  Uncertainty  Physics  End effectors 
Abstract: To minimize the operation time, mobile manipulators need to pick-up parts while the mobile base and the gripper are moving. The gripper speed needs to be selected to ensure that the pick-up operation does not fail due to uncertainties in part pose estimation. This, in turn, affects the mobile base trajectory. This paper presents an active learning based approach to construct a meta-model to estimate the probability of successful part pick-up for a given level of uncertainty in the part pose estimate. Using this model, we present an optimization-based framework to generate time-optimal trajectories that satisfy the given level of success probability threshold for picking-up the part.


Title: Closed-loop MPC with Dense Visual SLAM - Stability through Reactive Stepping
Key Words: approximation theory  closed loop systems  humanoid robots  legged locomotion  mobile robots  motion control  nonlinear control systems  path planning  pendulums  position control  predictive control  SLAM (robots)  stability  fundamental capacity  external inputs  reference velocity  footstep plans  reference motion  external disturbances  closed-loop MPC scheme  proprioceptive sensors  imperfect open-loop control execution  HRP-4 humanoid robot  reactive stepping  walking gaits  humanoid locomotion  model predictive control  pendulum  dense visual SLAM stability  Simultaneous localization and mapping  Foot  Legged locomotion  Humanoid robots  Lips 
Abstract: Walking gaits generated using Model Predictive Control (MPC) is widely used due to its capability to handle several constraints that characterize humanoid locomotion. The use of simplified models such as the Linear Inverted Pendulum allows to perform computations in real-time, giving the robot the fundamental capacity to replan its motion to follow external inputs (e.g. reference velocity, footstep plans). However, usually the MPC does not take into account the current state of the robot when computing the reference motion, losing the ability to react to external disturbances. In this paper a closed-loop MPC scheme is proposed to estimate the robot's real state through Simultaneous Localization and Mapping (SLAM) and proprioceptive sensors (force/torque). With the proposed control scheme it is shown that the robot is able to react to external disturbances (push), by stepping to recover from the loss of balance. Moreover the localization allows the robot to navigate to target positions in the environment without being affected by the drift generated by imperfect open-loop control execution. We validate the proposed scheme through two different experiments with a HRP-4 humanoid robot.


Title: Feedback motion planning of legged robots by composing orbital Lyapunov functions using rapidly-exploring random trees
Key Words: feedback  learning (artificial intelligence)  legged locomotion  Lyapunov methods  neurocontrollers  path planning  random processes  sampling methods  trajectory control  trees (mathematics)  feedback motion planning  legged robots  orbital Lyapunov functions  sampling-based framework  Poincaré section  multiple trajectory optimization problems  rapidly-exploring random tree algorithm  regions of attraction  deep learning neural networks  Limit-cycles  Planning  Legged locomotion  Lyapunov methods  Force  Trajectory optimization 
Abstract: We present a sampling-based framework for feedback motion planning of legged robots. Our framework is based on switching between limit cycles at a fixed instance of motion, the Poincaré section (e.g., apex or touchdown), by finding overlaps between the regions of attraction (ROA) of two limit cycles. First, we assume a candidate orbital Lyapunov function (OLF) and define a ROA at the Poincaré section. Next, we solve multiple trajectory optimization problems, one for each sampled initial condition on the ROA to minimize an energy metric and subject to the exponential convergence of the OLF between two steps. The result is a table of control actions and the corresponding initial conditions at the Poincaré section. Then we develop a control policy for each control action as a function of the initial condition using deep learning neural networks. The control policy is validated by testing on initial conditions sampled on ROA of randomly chosen limit cycles. Finally, the rapidly-exploring random tree algorithm is adopted to plan transitions between the limit cycles using the ROAs. The approach is demonstrated on a hopper model to achieve velocity and height transitions between steps.


Title: A Kalman Filter-Based Algorithm for Simultaneous Time Synchronization and Localization in UWB Networks
Key Words: indoor radio  Kalman filters  mobile robots  path planning  position control  radionavigation  synchronisation  time-of-arrival estimation  transceivers  ultra wideband communication  EKF-based navigation system design  mobile robot positioning  Kalman filter-based algorithm  UWB transceivers  ultra-wideband wireless communication transceivers  time difference of arrival  TDOA  passive UWB receivers  UWB networks  ranging-based positioning systems  simultaneous time synchronization-localization  signal time-of-flight measurement  time of arrival  TOA  multiple UWB base station synchronization  Clocks  Synchronization  Protocols  Distance measurement  Thermodynamics  Transceivers 
Abstract: The ability to accurately measure signal time-of-flight between ultra-wideband (UWB) wireless communication transceivers, even in multipath environments, makes this technology ideally suited to develop ranging-based positioning systems, especially for indoor applications where GPS signals are not available. In recent years, low-cost commercial UWB transceivers have become more easily available and increasingly used to develop custom robot positioning systems. In this paper, we focus in particular on positioning techniques requiring the synchronization of base stations such as Time of Arrival (TOA) and Time Difference of Arrival (TDOA). We present a protocol based on Kalman filtering for simultaneous synchronization of multiple UWB base stations and positioning of an arbitrary number of passive UWB receivers. We illustrate experimentally using our protocol and an EKF-based navigation system design the level of accuracy achievable with small low-power UWB modules for mobile robot positioning. We discuss in details measurement errors and system tuning issues applicable to popular commercial UWB transceivers.


Title: Feasibility Study of Robotic Needles with a Rotational Tip-Joint and Notch Patterns
Key Words: industrial robots  needles  nickel alloys  rods (structures)  springs (mechanical)  titanium alloys  laser machining  cosserat rod theory  spring model  dynamic region RRT  planning algorithm  tissue reaction  microtools  embedded rotational tip joint  proximal notch patterns  steerable needle  robotic needles  Needles  Fasteners  Electron tubes  Tendons  Force  Robots  Planning 
Abstract: In this paper, we present the design of a steerable needle with proximal notch patterns for compliance and an embedded rotational tip joint for articulation. The device is fabricated by laser machining NiTi tube so that an inner working channel exists (to enable delivery of fluids, drugs or microtools) and no assembly is required for the joints. We formulate its model based on the classical Cosserat Rod theory. This is extended with incremental state prediction and a simple spring model for tissue reaction to integrate into a planning algorithm based on Dynamic Region RRT which efficiently explores the needle's state space. The planner was initialized with a target zone and arbitrary anatomical obstacles before running simulations which propagated incremental state changes at every step while adhering to constraints based on the physical system. Finally, we demonstrate the steering capability of the needle through insertion tests into a phantom.


Title: Autonomous Laparoscopic Robotic Suturing with a Novel Actuated Suturing Tool and 3D Endoscope
Key Words: biological tissues  biomedical optical imaging  endoscopes  medical image processing  medical robotics  surgery  STAR  laparoscopic suturing tool  suture repositioning  suture spacing  suture pads  suture planning strategy  3D imaging endoscope  smart tissue anastomosis robot  autonomous laparoscopic robotic suturing system  surgical tools  laparoscopic surgery  patient recovery time  collateral tissue damage  laparoscopic surgical methods  open surgical techniques  Tools  Three-dimensional displays  Laparoscopes  Surgery  Robot kinematics  Imaging 
Abstract: Compared to open surgical techniques, laparoscopic surgical methods aim to reduce the collateral tissue damage and hence decrease the patient recovery time. However, constraints imposed by the laparoscopic surgery, i.e. the operation of surgical tools in limited spaces, turn simple surgical tasks such as suturing into time-consuming and inconsistent tasks for surgeons. In this paper, we develop an autonomous laparoscopic robotic suturing system. More specific, we expand our smart tissue anastomosis robot (STAR) by developing i) a new 3D imaging endoscope, ii) a novel actuated laparoscopic suturing tool, and iii) a suture planning strategy for the autonomous suturing. We experimentally test the accuracy and consistency of our developed system and compare it to sutures performed manually by surgeons. Our test results on suture pads indicate that STAR can reach 2.9 times better consistency in suture spacing compared to manual method and also eliminate suture repositioning and adjustments. Moreover, the consistency of suture bite sizes obtained by STAR matches with those obtained by manual suturing.


Title: Towards an Integrated Autonomous Data-Driven Grasping System with a Mobile Manipulator
Key Words: dexterous manipulators  grippers  image reconstruction  image registration  mobile robots  path planning  pose estimation  robot vision  arbitrary object  scan overlap  grasp analysis  autonomous data-driven grasping system  volumetric next-best-view algorithm  NBV algorithm  force closure  base pose uncertainty  integrated grasping system  mobile manipulator  Uncertainty  Manipulators  Grasping  Robot sensing systems  Planning  Three-dimensional displays 
Abstract: We present an integrated grasping system for a mobile manipulator to grasp an unknown object of interest (OI) in an unknown environment. The system autonomously scans its environment, models the OI, plans and executes a grasp, while taking into account base pose uncertainty. Due to inherent line of sight limitations in sensing, a single scan of the OI often does not reveal enough information to complete grasp analysis; as a result, our system autonomously builds a model of an object via multiple scans from different locations until a grasp can be performed. A volumetric next-best-view (NBV) algorithm is used to model an arbitrary object and terminates modeling when force closure for the gripper is satisfied. Two experiments are presented: i) modeling and registration error is reduced by selecting viewpoints with more scan overlap, and ii) model reconstruction and grasps are successfully achieved while experiencing base pose uncertainty.


Title: Transferring Grasp Configurations using Active Learning and Local Replanning
Key Words: dexterous manipulators  image segmentation  learning (artificial intelligence)  path planning  robot vision  grasp configurations  active learning  prior example objects  similar shapes  geometric shape characteristics  semantic shape characteristics  grasp space  model parts  corresponding grasps  local replanning  point cloud  robotic hands  Shape  Grasping  Semantics  Three-dimensional displays  Robots  Stability analysis  Particle swarm optimization 
Abstract: We present a new approach to transfer grasp configurations from prior example objects to novel objects. We assume the novel and example objects have the same topology and similar shapes. We perform 3D segmentation on these objects using geometric and semantic shape characteristics. We compute a grasp space for each part of the example object using active learning. We build bijective contact mapping between these model parts and compute the corresponding grasps for novel objects. Finally, we assemble the individual parts and use local replanning to adjust grasp configurations while maintaining its stability and physical constraints. Our approach is general, can handle all kind of objects represented using mesh or point cloud and a variety of robotic hands.


Title: Analytic Collision Risk Calculation for Autonomous Vehicle Navigation
Key Words: collision avoidance  mobile robots  Monte Carlo methods  navigation  probability  road traffic control  road vehicles  autonomous vehicle navigation  Monte Carlo simulations  autonomous systems  self-driving car  Freie Universität Berlin  collision octagon  analytic collision risk calculation  trajectory prediction  ground vehicle navigation  autonomous driving  planning system  Trajectory  Integral equations  Autonomous vehicles  Monte Carlo methods  Uncertainty 
Abstract: Collision checking and avoidance is an import part of the perception and planning system for autonomous driving. We present a new analytic approach to calculate the probability of a future collision and extend another already known solution to be suitable for ground vehicle navigation. Our new concept of the collision octagon facilitates in both cases the derivation of an analytic solution. Both approaches are compared to each other using simulated and real world scenarios. By comparing the results of the analytic solutions to the corresponding Monte Carlo simulations, their accuracy and real-time capability is demonstrated. The suitability of the analytic solutions for real world autonomous systems is further proven by integrating them into the trajectory prediction and planning system of the self-driving car of the Freie Universität Berlin.


Title: A new approach to local navigation for autonomous driving vehicles based on the curvature velocity method
Key Words: collision avoidance  mobile robots  motion control  navigation  road traffic  local navigation  autonomous driving vehicles  curvature velocity method  car navigation system  road path  motion control  high-level planning  lower-level reactive control  beam curvature method  pure pursuit method  lane obstacle avoidance  elderly people  Navigation  Planning  Automobiles  Robot sensing systems  Vehicle dynamics  Computer architecture 
Abstract: This paper presents an approach for a car navigation system to follow a road path consisting on a sequence of lanelets. The motion control is divided into high-level planning that produces the road path and lower-level reactive control that safely follows the path. The approach presented here is the lower-level reactive control that combines the simple pure pursuit method to obtain a reference curvature with the beam curvature method (BCM) that keeps the car in the center of the free space in the lane avoiding obstacles that can partially block the lane. The whole system has been applied to an autonomous vehicle aimed for elderly or disable people.


Title: Goal-Driven Navigation for Non-holonomic Multi-Robot System by Learning Collision
Key Words: collision avoidance  learning (artificial intelligence)  mobile robots  multi-robot systems  goal-driven navigation  nonholonomic multirobot system  learning collision  reinforcement learning  multirobot collision avoidance approach  training agent robots  agent robot  trained policy  multiple obstacle robots  robot simulation  robot experiment  Robots  Collision avoidance  Training  Planning  Task analysis  Servers  Heuristic algorithms 
Abstract: In this paper, we propose the reinforcement learning based multi-robot collision avoidance approach by learning collision. Dynamical path re-planning, which is massively used in classical collision avoidance methods, needs overall information of the environment. Also, training agent robots to avoid the collision and pursue a goal point simultaneously is inefficient since the agent should learn two tasks. As the number of tasks that the agent should learn increases, it is difficult to make the performance of an algorithm consistent, which is known as reproducibility issue. To overcome these limitations, Collision Avoidance by Learning Collision (CALC), which learns collision instead of avoiding an obstacle robot is suggested. To solve the collision avoidance problem efficiently, the proposed method divides the problem into training and planning. In the training algorithm, an agent robot learns how to collide with a single obstacle robot and then generates a trained policy. With the trained policy, the agent can pursue a goal point since the policy leads the agent to `collide' with the goal. Furthermore, by taking action in a reverse way from the trained policy, the agent can avoid multiple obstacle robots in the planning algorithm at once. The proposed method is validated both in the robot simulation and real robot experiment, and compared with the existing collision avoidance method.


Title: Efficient Exact Collision Detection between Ellipsoids and Superquadrics via Closed-form Minkowski Sums
Key Words: collision avoidance  computational geometry  convex programming  mesh generation  mobile robots  ellipsoid  superquadric  closed-form parametric expression  general convex differentiable parametric surface  efficient exact collision detection  closed-form Minkowski sums  computer graphics  robot motion planning  convex polytopes  collision detection scheme  n-dimensional Euclidean space  principal kinematic formula  PKF  Gilbert-Johnson-Keerthi  GJK  algebraic separation conditions  ASC  meshes  Ellipsoids  Collision avoidance  Shape  Two dimensional displays  Three-dimensional displays  Robot sensing systems 
Abstract: Collision detection has attracted attention of researchers for decades in the field of computer graphics, robot motion planning, computer aided design, etc. A large number of successful algorithms have been proposed and applied, which make use of convex polytopes and bounding volumes as primitives. However, algorithms for those shapes rely significantly on the complexity of the meshes. This paper deals with collision detection for shapes with simple and exact mathematical descriptions, such as ellipsoids and superquadrics. These primitives have a wide range of applications in representing complex objects and have much fewer parameters than meshes. The foundation of the proposed collision detection scheme relies on the closed-form Minkowski sums between ellipsoids and superquadrics in n-dimensional Euclidean space. The basic idea here is to shrink the ellipsoid into a point and expand each superquadric into a new offset surface with closed-form parametric expression. The solutions for detecting relative positions between a point and a general convex differentiable parametric surface in both 2D and 3D are derived, leading to an algorithm for exact collision detection. To compare between exact and inexact algorithms, an accuracy metric is introduced based on the Principal Kinematic Formula (PKF). The proposed algorithm is then compared with existing wellknown algorithms: Gilbert-Johnson-Keerthi (GJK) and Algebraic Separation Conditions (ASC). The results show that the proposed algorithm performs competitively with these efficient checkers.


Title: Robot Localization Based on Aerial Images for Precision Agriculture Tasks in Crop Fields
Key Words: autonomous aerial vehicles  crops  data visualisation  feature extraction  mobile robots  path planning  robot vision  SLAM (robots)  robot localization  aerial images  precision agriculture tasks  crop field environment  visual aliasing  localization system  aerial map  visual ambiguity problem  autonomous robots  Agriculture  Feature extraction  Cameras  Semantics  Visualization  Robot vision systems 
Abstract: Localization is a pre-requisite for most autonomous robots. For example, to carry out precision agriculture tasks effectively, a robot must be able to localize itself accurately in crop fields. The crop field environment presents unique challenges such as the highly repetitive structure of the crops leading to visual aliasing as well as the continuously changing appearance of the field, which makes it difficult to localize over time. In this paper, we present a localization system, which uses an aerial map of the field and exploits the semantic information of the crops, weeds, and their stem positions to resolve the visual ambiguity problem and to enable robot localization over extended periods of time. We evaluate our approach on a real field over multiple sessions spanning several weeks. Experiments suggest that our approach provides the necessary accuracy required by precision agriculture applications and works in cases where current techniques using typical visual features tend to fail.


Title: Visual Appearance Analysis of Forest Scenes for Monocular SLAM
Key Words: autonomous aerial vehicles  mobile robots  path planning  remotely operated vehicles  robot vision  SLAM (robots)  managed forests  tree health  SLAM research  structured human environments  unstructured forests  forest data  photorealistic simulated forest  straightforward forest terrain  forest scenes  natural scenes  visual appearance analysis  cheap energy efficient way  unmanned aerial vehicles  monocular SLAM systems  SLAM systems  visual appearance statistics  Forestry  Simultaneous localization and mapping  Cameras  Visualization  Vegetation  Feature extraction  Lighting 
Abstract: Monocular simultaneous localisation and mapping (SLAM) is a cheap and energy efficient way to enable Unmanned Aerial Vehicles (UAVs) to safely navigate managed forests and gather data crucial for monitoring tree health. SLAM research, however, has mostly been conducted in structured human environments, and as such is poorly adapted to unstructured forests. In this paper, we compare the performance of state of the art monocular SLAM systems on forest data and use visual appearance statistics to characterise the differences between forests and other environments, including a photorealistic simulated forest. We find that SLAM systems struggle with all but the most straightforward forest terrain and identify key attributes (lighting changes and in-scene motion) which distinguish forest scenes from “classic” urban datasets. These differences offer an insight into what makes forests harder to map and open the way for targeted improvements. We also demonstrate that even simulations that look impressive to the human eye can fail to properly reflect the difficult attributes of the environment they simulate, and provide suggestions for more closely mimicking natural scenes.


Title: Thermal Image Based Navigation System for Skid-Steering Mobile Robots in Sugarcane Crops*
Key Words: agricultural machinery  agriculture  crops  Global Positioning System  infrared imaging  mobile robots  path planning  robot vision  thermal image  navigation system  skid-steering mobile robots  sugarcane crops  autonomous navigation  sugarcane plantations  ordinary agricultural fields  sugarcane farms  row crop tunnels  low-cost skid-steering mobile robot  bioenergy farm  infrared thermal imaging  laser-based sensors  image analysis  navigation methodology  robot swarm  tankette for intelligent bioenergy agriculture  Agriculture  Robot kinematics  Navigation  Mobile robots  Computed tomography  Image color analysis 
Abstract: This work proposes a new strategy for autonomous navigation of mobile robots in sugarcane plantations based on thermal imaging. Unlike ordinary agricultural fields, sugarcane farms are generally vast and accommodates numerous arrangements of row crop tunnels, which are very tall, dense and hard-to-access. Moreover, sugarcane crops lie in harsh regions, which hinder the logistics for employing staff and heavy machinery for mapping, monitoring, and sampling. One solution for this problem is TIBA (Tankette for Intelligent BioEnergy Agriculture), a low-cost skid-steering mobile robot capable of infiltrating the crop tunnels with several sensing/sampling systems. The project concept is to reduce the product cost for making the deployment of a robot swarm feasible over a larger area. A prototype was built and tested in a bioenergy farm in order to improve the understanding of the environment and bring about the challenges for the next development steps. The major problem is the navigation through the crop tunnels, since most of the developed systems are suitable for open field operations and employ laser scanners and/or GPS/IMU, which in general are expensive technologies. In this context, we propose a low-cost solution based on infrared (IR) thermal imaging. IR cameras are simple and inexpensive devices, which do not pose risks to the user health, unlike laser-based sensors. This idea was highly motivated by the data collected in the field, which have shown a significant temperature difference between the ground and the crop. From the image analysis, it is possible to clearly visualize a distinguishable corridor and, consequently, generate a straight path for the robot to follow by using computationally efficient approaches. A rigorous analysis of the collected thermal data, numerical simulations and preliminary experiments in the real environment were included to illustrate the efficiency and feasibility of the proposed navigation methodology.


Title: The Open Vision Computer: An Integrated Sensing and Compute System for Mobile Robots
Key Words: autonomous aerial vehicles  helicopters  microrobots  mobile robots  path planning  robot vision  Falcon 250 quadrotor platform  vision guided autonomous drone flight  mobile robots  integrated sensing  open vision computer  navigation operations  outdoor exploration  OVC system  computational performance  power consumption  relatively small-scale flying platforms  Field programmable gate arrays  Image sensors  Streaming media  Robot sensing systems  Aircraft navigation  Sensor arrays 
Abstract: In this paper we describe the Open Vision Computer (OVC) which was designed to support high speed, vision guided autonomous drone flight. In particular our aim was to develop a system that would be suitable for relatively small-scale flying platforms where size, weight, power consumption and computational performance were all important considerations. This manuscript describes the primary features of our OVC system and explains how they are used to support fully autonomous indoor and outdoor exploration and navigation operations on our Falcon 250 quadrotor platform.


Title: Learning to Capture a Film-Look Video with a Camera Drone
Key Words: autonomous aerial vehicles  collision avoidance  decision making  image capture  image sensors  image sequences  learning (artificial intelligence)  mobile robots  motion control  object tracking  robot vision  video cameras  video signal processing  film-look video  camera drone  intelligent drones  smarter assistant tools  autonomous aerial filming  camera motion planning  cinematic footages  film-look aerial footage  camera position  automatic filming onboard  data-driven planning approach  image composition  data-driven learning-based approach  professional cameramans intention  decision-making process  Cameras  Drones  Training  Skeleton  Streaming media  Two dimensional displays  Feature extraction 
Abstract: The development of intelligent drones has simplified aerial filming and provided smarter assistant tools for users to capture a film-look footage. Existing methods of autonomous aerial filming either specify predefined camera movements for a drone to capture a footage, or employ heuristic approaches for camera motion planning. However, both predefined movements and heuristically planned motions are hardly able to provide cinematic footages for various dynamic scenarios. In this paper, we propose a data-driven learning-based approach, which can imitate a professional cameraman's intention for capturing a film-look aerial footage of a single subject in real-time. We model the decision-making process of the cameraman with two steps: 1) we train a network to predict the future image composition and camera position, and 2) our system then generates control commands to achieve the desired shot framing. At the system level, we deploy our algorithm on the limited resources of a drone and demonstrate the feasibility of running automatic filming onboard in real-time. Our experiments show how our data-driven planning approach achieves film-look footages and successfully mimics the work of a professional cameraman.


Title: Hunting Drones with Other Drones: Tracking a Moving Radio Target
Key Words: aerospace communication  aerospace robotics  mobile radio  mobile robots  path planning  remotely operated vehicles  target tracking  telemetry  moving radio target  unauthorized drone flights  antennas  commodity radios  telemetry radio emissions  passenger safety  bystander safety  Drones  Antenna measurements  Telemetry  Target tracking  Antennas  Aircraft  Radio frequency 
Abstract: Unauthorized drone flights near aircraft, airports, and emergency operations compromise the safety of passengers and bystanders. A detection system that can quickly find and track drones could help mitigate the risk of unauthorized drone flights. In this work, we show how a consumer drone outfitted with antennas and commodity radios can autonomously localize another drone by its telemetry radio emissions. We show how a non-myopic planner improves tracking performance over traditionally used greedy, one-step planners. Improved tracking is validated with simulations and the system is demonstrated with real drones in flight tests.


Title: Robust Execution of Contact-Rich Motion Plans by Hybrid Force-Velocity Control
Key Words: control system synthesis  force control  industrial manipulators  mobile robots  optimisation  path planning  trajectory control  velocity control  robust execution  contact-rich motion plans  trajectory hybrid servoing  hybrid force-velocity control actions  control synthesis  positional errors  optimization problems  contact-rich manipulation tasks  Robots  Force  Force control  Aerospace electronics  Collision avoidance  Planning  Velocity control 
Abstract: In hybrid force-velocity control, the robot can use velocity control in some directions to follow a trajectory, while performing force control in other directions to maintain contacts with the environment regardless of positional errors. We call this way of executing a trajectory hybrid servoing. We propose an algorithm to compute hybrid force-velocity control actions for hybrid servoing. We quantity the robustness of a control action and make trade-offs between different requirements by formulating the control synthesis as optimization problems. Our method can efficiently compute the dimensions, directions and magnitudes of force and velocity controls. We demonstrated by experiments the effectiveness of our method in several contact-rich manipulation tasks. Link to the video: https://youtu.be/KtSNmvwOenM.


Title: Asynchronous Network Formation in Unknown Unbounded Environments*
Key Words: mobile robots  multi-robot systems  path planning  trees (mathematics)  mobile multirobot system  arbitrary robot deployments  robot initial positions  robot configuration  online network formation problem  asynchronous network formation  unknown unbounded environments  ONFP  bounded communication range  competitive ratio  Euclidean minimum spanning tree  Robot kinematics  Task analysis  Partitioning algorithms  Vegetation  Protocols  Peer-to-peer computing 
Abstract: In this paper, we study the Online Network Formation Problem (ONFP) for a mobile multi-robot system. Consider a group of robots with a bounded communication range operating in a large open area. One of the robots has a piece of information which has to be propagated to all other robots. What strategy should the robots pursue to disseminate the information to the rest of the robots as quickly as possible? The initial locations of the robots are unknown to each other, therefore the problem must be solved in an online fashion. For this problem, we present an algorithm whose competitive ratio is O(H · max{M, √MH}) for arbitrary robot deployments, where M is the largest edge length in the Euclidean minimum spanning tree on the initial robot configuration and H is the height of the tree. We also study the case when the robot initial positions are chosen uniformly at random and improve the ratio to O(M). Finally, we present simulation results to validate the performance in larger scales and demonstrate our algorithm using three robots in a field experiment.


Title: Multi-Vehicle Trajectory optimisation On Road Networks
Key Words: integer programming  linear programming  path planning  multivehicle trajectory optimisation  road networks  planning time-optimal trajectories  multiple cooperative agents  static road network  vehicle interactions  nontrivial decisions  complex flow-on effects  globally optimal time trajectory  minimum time trajectory  MILP  computational performance  binary variables  collision constraints  open-pit mining scenario  mixed integer linear programming  goal constraints  heuristic method  Roads  Trajectory  Planning  Automation  Optimization  Iterative methods  Mixed integer linear programming 
Abstract: This paper addresses the problem of planning time-optimal trajectories for multiple cooperative agents along specified paths through a static road network. Vehicle interactions at intersections create non-trivial decisions, with complex flow-on effects for subsequent interactions. A globally optimal, minimum time trajectory is found for all vehicles using Mixed Integer Linear Programming (MILP). Computational performance is improved by minimising binary variables using iteratively applied targeted collision constraints, and efficient goal constraints. Simulation results in an open-pit mining scenario compare the proposed method against a fast heuristic method and a reactive approach based on site practices. The heuristic is found to scale better with problem size while the MILP is able to avoid local minima.


Title: Informed Information Theoretic Model Predictive Control
Key Words: nonlinear control systems  nonlinear dynamical systems  optimal control  optimisation  predictive control  robust control  sampling methods  informed sampling distribution  optimized controls  informed information theoretic model predictive control  nonlinear control systems  uncertainties  highly nonlinear dynamics  contextual information  generative models  trajectory control  sampling-based MPC methods  robustness properties  conditional variational autoencoders  autonomous navigation domain  Task analysis  Optimal control  Trajectory  Decoding  Robots  Planning  Cost function 
Abstract: The problem of minimizing cost in nonlinear control systems with uncertainties or disturbances remains a major challenge. Model predictive control (MPC), and in particular sampling-based MPC has recently shown great success in complex domains such as aggressive driving with highly nonlinear dynamics. Sampling-based methods rely on a prior distribution to generate samples in the first place. Obviously, the choice of this distribution highly influences efficiency of the controller. Existing approaches such as sampling around the control trajectory of the previous time step perform suboptimally, especially in multi-modal or highly dynamic settings. In this work, we therefore propose to learn models that generate samples in low-cost areas of the state-space, conditioned on the environment and on contextual information of the task to solve. By using generative models as an informed sampling distribution, our approach exploits guidance from the learned models and at the same time maintains robustness properties of the MPC methods. We use Conditional Variational Autoencoders (CVAE) to learn distributions that imitate samples from a training dataset containing optimized controls. An extensive evaluation in the autonomous navigation domain suggests that replacing previous sampling schemes with our learned models considerably improves performance in terms of path quality and planning efficiency.


Title: A Generic Optimization Based Cartesian Controller for Robotic Mobile Manipulation
Key Words: angular velocity control  closed loop systems  end effectors  mobile robots  motion control  optimisation  probability  robot vision  service robots  sequential phases  closed loop perspective  generic optimization-based Cartesian controller  motion commands  robotic system  mobile platform  velocity space  end effector velocity  joint platform velocities  base platform velocities  mobile service robot architecture  domestic tasks  robotic mobile manipulation  random arm configurations  Optimization  Kinematics  Manipulators  Robot sensing systems  Real-time systems  Planning 
Abstract: Typically, the problem of robotic manipulation is divided among two sequential phases: a planning one and an execution one. However, since the second one is executed in open loop, the robot is unable to react in real time to changes in the task (e.g. moving object). This paper addresses the mobile manipulation problem from a real-time, closed loop perspective. In particular, we propose a generic optimization-based Cartesian controller, that given a continuous monitoring of the goal, determines the best motion commands. We target our controller to a robotic system comprising an arm and a mobile platform. However, the approach can in principle be extended to more complex mechanisms. The approach is based on shifting the problem to velocity space, where end effector velocity is a linear function of joint and base platform velocities. Our approach was quantitatively evaluated both on simulation and on a real service robot. It was also integrated into a mobile service robot architecture targeting domestic tasks and evaluated on the RoboCup@Home scientific competition. Our results show that the controller is able to reach random arm configurations with a high probability of success.


Title: Motion Planning Networks
Key Words: collision avoidance  computational complexity  manipulators  mobile robots  motion control  neurocontrollers  computational complexity  neural network  collision-free paths  motion planning networks  robotics applications  self-driving cars  7 DOF Baxter robot manipulator  MPNet  Planning  Three-dimensional displays  Neural networks  Training  Manipulators  Encoding 
Abstract: Fast and efficient motion planning algorithms are crucial for many state-of-the-art robotics applications such as self-driving cars. Existing motion planning methods become ineffective as their computational complexity increases exponentially with the dimensionality of the motion planning problem. To address this issue, we present Motion Planning Networks (MPNet), a neural network-based novel planning algorithm. The proposed method encodes the given workspaces directly from a point cloud measurement and generates the end-to-end collision-free paths for the given start and goal configurations. We evaluate MPNet on various 2D and 3D environments including the planning of a 7 DOF Baxter robot manipulator. The results show that MPNet is not only consistently computationally efficient in all environments but also generalizes to completely unseen environments. The results also show that the computation time of MPNet consistently remains less than 1 second in all presented experiments, which is significantly lower than existing state-of-the-art motion planning algorithms.


Title: Reinforcement Learning in Topology-based Representation for Human Body Movement with Whole Arm Manipulation
Key Words: humanoid robots  human-robot interaction  learning (artificial intelligence)  manipulator dynamics  medical robotics  path planning  patient care  position control  topology-based representation  human body movement  bulky object  WAM  manipulation places  global properties  local contacts  grasping  reinforcement learning problem  robot behavior  human motion  robot-human interaction  topology-based coordinates  torso positions  learned policy  body shapes  dynamic sea rescue scenario  unseen scenarios  differently-shaped humans  whole arm manipulation  Robot kinematics  Humanoid robots  Manipulators  Laplace equations  Torso  Shape 
Abstract: Moving a human body or a large and bulky object may require the strength of whole arm manipulation (WAM). This type of manipulation places the load on the robot's arms and relies on global properties of the interaction to succeed- rather than local contacts such as grasping or non-prehensile pushing. In this paper, we learn to generate motions that enable WAM for holding and transporting of humans in certain rescue or patient care scenarios. We model the task as a reinforcement learning problem in order to provide a robot behavior that can directly respond to external perturbation and human motion. For this, we represent global properties of the robot-human interaction with topology-based coordinates that are computed from arm and torso positions. These coordinates also allow transferring the learned policy to other body shapes and sizes. For training and evaluation, we simulate a dynamic sea rescue scenario and show in quantitative experiments that the policy can solve unseen scenarios with differently-shaped humans, floating humans, or with perception noise. Our qualitative experiments show the subsequent transporting after holding is achieved and we demonstrate that the policy can be directly transferred to a real world setting.


Title: Coordinated multi-robot planning while preserving individual privacy
Key Words: collision avoidance  cryptography  data privacy  mobile robots  motion control  multi-robot systems  coordinated multirobot planning  individual privacy  multiple robots  privacy-preserving rendezvous  persistent monitoring  joint plan  collective motions  collective task  joint-collision determination  mobile robots  secure path intersection primitives  homomorphic encryption  Robot kinematics  Collision avoidance  Protocols  Task analysis  Privacy  Encryption 
Abstract: We consider the problem of multiple robots that must cooperate within a shared environment, but which wish to limit the information they disclose during their coordination efforts. Specifically, we examine the problems of privacy-preserving rendezvous and persistent monitoring. In the former, the robots construct a joint plan to have them meet, without either knowing beforehand where or when the meeting will occur. In the latter, multiple robots dynamically cover a region of space-they plan collective motions which are collision-free but with the assurance that agents remain ignorant of the paths of others. Accordingly, the tasks are sort of inverses in that the robots must collectively determine whether their joint paths collide or not, then, using this, achieve their collective task. Other than what is learned by the outcome of the joint-collision determination, the robots possess no details of the other paths. Our approach builds on garbled circuits and homomorphic encryption to realize basic secure path intersection primitives. We present algorithms, a software implementation, and a physical experiment on mobile robots to test the practical feasibility of our approach. We believe that these ideas provide a valuable direction for adoption in small Unmanned Systems belonging to different stakeholders.


Title: Development of Informative Path Planning for Inspection of the Hanford Tank Farm
Key Words: inspection  mobile robots  optimisation  path planning  rastering technique  high-level nuclear waste tanks  Hanford facility  robotic inspection  utility function  informative path planning  Hanford tank farm  structural monitoring  static sensor networks  predetermined locations  mobile robots  Bayesian optimization approach  Robot sensing systems  Kernel  Inspection  Temperature measurement  Gaussian processes  Welding 
Abstract: Traditional environmental and structural monitoring often uses static sensor networks deployed at predetermined locations or mobile robots that use a rastering technique for area coverage. These methods rely on the operators making assumptions about the nature of the unknown field that is being measured and are often time-consuming for localizing an area of interest. Here, we aim to quickly localize possible leaks within high-level nuclear waste tanks at the Hanford facility. The structure of these tanks precludes most sensor network approaches and raises many issues with robotic inspection, such as navigation within highly constrained environments. This work uses a Bayesian Optimization approach for guiding a mobile robot's search strategy and implements a utility function that allows for prior knowledge of the structure to be incorporated when selecting future search locations. Compared to traditional exhaustive approaches, our method quickly reduces RMSE error and shortens the distance the robot must travel.


Title: Learning to Predict the Wind for Safe Aerial Vehicle Planning
Key Words: autonomous aerial vehicles  convolutional neural nets  mobile robots  path planning  sampling methods  wind  safe aerial vehicle planning  local wind  unmanned aerial vehicles  wind environment  relatively low mass  high-resolution wind fields  terrain elevation model  deep convolutional neural network  sampling-based planner  strong wind scenarios  UAV  inflow conditions  prediction error  wind estimation techniques  Wind forecasting  Planning  Computational modeling  Wind speed  Predictive models  Data models 
Abstract: Obtaining an accurate estimate of the local wind remains a significant challenge for small unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs). Small UAVs often operate at low altitudes near terrain, where the wind environment can be more complex than at higher altitudes. Combined with their relatively low mass, this makes small UAVs particularly susceptible to wind. In this paper we present an approach for predicting high-resolution wind fields based on a terrain elevation model and known inflow conditions. Our approach uses a deep convolutional neural network (CNN) to generate 3D wind estimates. We show that our approach produces wind estimates with lower prediction error than existing methods, and that inference can be performed on an on-board computer in less than two seconds. By providing the wind estimate to a sampling-based planner we show that the improved estimates allow the planner to generate safer paths in strong wind scenarios than with alternative wind estimation techniques.


Title: Distributed Radiation Field Estimation and Informative Path Planning for Nuclear Environment Characterization
Key Words: Global Positioning System  mobile robots  optical radar  path planning  photomultipliers  scintillation counters  solid scintillation detectors  thallium  distributed radiation field estimation  informative path planning  nuclear environment characterization  autonomous estimation  distributed nuclear radiation fields  GPS-denied environments  sensing apparatus  radially placed Thallium-doped Cesium Iodide  Silicon Photomultipliers  pulse counting circuitry  provided readings  LiDAR-based localization  radiation intensity readings  immediate field gradient  believed field intensity  local measurement  field gradient co-estimation  informative data gathering  path planning strategy  uncertainty  admissible paths  autonomous exploration  SiPm  Estimation  Detectors  Robot sensing systems  Path planning  Uncertainty  Area measurement 
Abstract: This paper details the system and methods designed to enable the autonomous estimation of distributed nuclear radiation fields within complex and possibly GPS-denied environments. A sensing apparatus consisting of three radially placed Thallium-doped Cesium Iodide (CsI(Tl)) scintillators and Silicon Photomultipliers (SiPm) combined with custom- built pulse counting circuitry is designed and the provided readings are pose-annotated using LiDAR-based localization. Given this capacity, a method that utilizes the radiation intensity readings to first calculate the immediate field gradient and then combine this information to update and co-estimate the believed field intensity and gradient across the whole environment is developed. The strategy propagates the effect of each local measurement through field gradient co-estimation and simultaneously derives a model of the underlying uncertainty. To further support the need for informative data gathering, especially in the framework of emergency and rapid reconnaissance missions, a path planning strategy is also developed that first utilizes the field intensity and uncertainty estimates to select its new waypoint and then performs terrain traversability analysis to derive admissible paths. The complete system is evaluated both in simulation and experimentally. The experimental results refer to the autonomous exploration and field estimation inside an indoor facility within which actual radioactive uranium and thorium ore sources have been distributed.


Title: Multimodal Semantic SLAM with Probabilistic Data Association
Key Words: image fusion  image representation  inference mechanisms  mobile robots  object detection  path planning  probability  robot vision  SLAM (robots)  nonGaussian sensor model  multimodal semantic SLAM  probabilistic data association  robot navigation  semantic SLAM problem  discrete inference problem  object class labels  measurement-landmark correspondences  continuous inference problem  robot poses  object detection systems  simultaneous localization and mapping  object-based representations  object locations  nonGaussian inference problem  Simultaneous localization and mapping  Semantics  Belief propagation  Maximum likelihood estimation  Maximum likelihood detection 
Abstract: The recent success of object detection systems motivates object-based representations for robot navigation; i.e. semantic simultaneous localization and mapping (SLAM). The semantic SLAM problem can be decomposed into a discrete inference problem: determining object class labels and measurement-landmark correspondences (the data association problem), and a continuous inference problem: obtaining the set of robot poses and object locations in the environment. A solution to the semantic SLAM problem necessarily addresses this joint inference, but under ambiguous data associations this is in general a non-Gaussian inference problem, while the majority of previous work focuses on Gaussian inference. Previous solutions to data association either produce solutions between potential hypotheses or maintain multiple explicit hypotheses for each association. We propose a solution that represents hypotheses as multiple modes of an equivalent non-Gaussian sensor model. We then solve the resulting non-Gaussian inference problem using nonparametric belief propagation. We validate our approach in a simulated hallway environment under a variety of sensor noise characteristics, as well as using real data from the KITTI dataset, demonstrating improved robustness to perceptual aliasing and odometry uncertainty.


Title: Improving Incremental Planning Performance through Overlapping Replanning and Execution
Key Words: path planning  robots  trajectory control  integrated motion planning  Chekov  trajectory optimization problems  roadmap seed trajectories  motion planning algorithms  control information  incremental planning  Planning  Dynamics  Mobile robots  Trajectory optimization  Collision avoidance 
Abstract: Deployment of motion planning algorithms in practical applications has lagged due to their slow speed in reacting to disturbances. We believe that the best way to address this is to reuse learned planning and control information across queries. In previous work, we introduced Chekov, a reactive, integrated motion planning and execution system that reuses learned information in the form of an enhanced roadmap. We have previously shown how we can use Chekov to formulate trajectory optimization problems that result in superior performance in static environments. In this work, we show how incremental planning can be incorporated into the formulation of optimized trajectories from roadmap seed trajectories. Further, we show how an incremental planner can be adapted to reduce the overhead incurred for replanning when trajectories become invalid during execution.


Title: Online adaptation of uncertain models using neural network priors and partially observable planning
Key Words: Markov processes  mobile robots  neural nets  planning (artificial intelligence)  uncertain systems  online adaptation  uncertain models  neural network priors  partially observable planning  manipulation tasks  encode prior experiences  physics engine  online POMDP solver  observed environments  prediction model  domain complexity  Adaptation models  Task analysis  Physics  Planning  Robots  Engines  Neural networks 
Abstract: One of the key challenges in realizing a robot that is capable of completing a variety of manipulation tasks in the real world is the need to utilize sufficiently compact and rich world models. If the assumed prediction model does not match real observations, planning systems are unable to perform properly. We propose a system that corrects the models based on information collected from the robot's sensors. We encode prior experiences in a neural network to generate possible parameters of the models for a physics engine from real observations. An online POMDP solver is used to plan actions to complete the task while progressively validating and improving the models. We perform experiments in simulations and on a real robot. The results show that this approach appropriately clarifies observed environments, can handle dynamics with discontinuities, and with increasing domain complexity achieves a better success rate than baseline methods.


Title: Energy Gradient-Based Graphs for Planning Within-Hand Caging Manipulation
Key Words: dexterous manipulators  gradient methods  graph theory  grippers  mobile robots  path planning  hand-object configurations  Yale T42 hand  stored energy profile  energy gradient-based graph  energy map  low energy states  actuation input  underactuated hands  caging grasps  within-hand caging manipulation  Actuators  Computational modeling  Grippers  Force  Planning  Energy states  Trajectory 
Abstract: In this work, we present a within-hand manipulation approach that leverages a simple energy model based on caging grasps made by underactuated hands. Instead of explicitly modeling the contacts and dynamics in manipulation, we can calculate a map to describe the energy states of different hand-object configurations under an actuation input. Since the system intrinsically steers towards low energy states, the object's movement is uniquely described by the gradient of the energy map if the corresponding actuation is applied. Such maps are pre-calculated for a range of actuation inputs to represent the system's energy profile. We discretize the workspace into a grid and construct an energy gradient-based graph by locally exploring the gradients of the stored energy profile. Given a goal configuration of a simple cylindrical object, a sequence of actuation inputs can be calculated to manipulate it towards the goal by exploiting the connectivity in the graph. The proposed approach is experimentally implemented on a Yale T42 hand. Our evaluation results show that parts of the graph are well connected, explaining our ability to successfully plan and execute trajectories within the gripper's workspace.


Title: Prediction Maps for Real-Time 3D Footstep Planning in Dynamic Environments
Key Words: collision avoidance  humanoid robots  mobile robots  robot vision  humanoids  smaller wheeled robots  planar regions  simple 2D occupancy map  environment representation  height information  prediction maps  real-time 3D footstep planning  mobile robots  dynamic obstacle detection  time 10.0 ms  Three-dimensional displays  Tracking  Real-time systems  Mobile robots  Task analysis  Humanoid robots 
Abstract: Perception of the local environment is a precondition for mobile robots to navigate safely in dynamic environments. Most robots, i.e., humanoids and smaller wheeled robots rely on planar regions. For humanoids, a simple 2D occupancy map as environment representation on which a path is planned is hereby not sufficient since they can step over and onto objects and therefore need height information. Considering dynamic obstacles introduces another level of complexity, since they can lead to necessary replanning or collisions at later stages. In this paper, we present a framework that first extracts planar regions in height maps and detects dynamic obstacles. Our system then uses this information to create a set of prediction maps, in which paths can be efficiently planned in real time at low CPU cost. We show in simulation and real-world experiments that our framework keeps run times well under 10ms for one computation cycle and allows for foresighted real-time 3D footstep planning.


Title: Spatio-temporal representation for long-term anticipation of human presence in service robotics
Key Words: mobile robots  path planning  service robots  spatiotemporal phenomena  spatio-temporal representation  long-term anticipation  service robotics  mobile autonomous robots  human populated environments  wrapped dimensions  periodicities  2D spatial model  multidimensional representation  memory efficient spatio-temporal model  long-term predictions  mobile robots  periodic temporal patterns  Hidden Markov models  Predictive models  Market research  Mobile robots  Spectral analysis  Time series analysis 
Abstract: We propose an efficient spatio-temporal model for mobile autonomous robots operating in human populated environments. Our method aims to model periodic temporal patterns of people presence, which are based on peoples' routines and habits. The core idea is to project the time onto a set of wrapped dimensions that represent the periodicities of people presence. Extending a 2D spatial model with this multidimensional representation of time results in a memory efficient spatio-temporal model. This model is capable of long-term predictions of human presence, allowing mobile robots to schedule their services better and to plan their paths. The experimental evaluation, performed over datasets gathered by a robot over a period of several weeks, indicates that the proposed method achieves more accurate predictions than the previous state of the art used in robotics.


Title: Controlling AeroBot: Development of a Motion Planner for an Actively Articulated Wheeled Humanoid Robot
Key Words: controllability  humanoid robots  legged locomotion  motion control  path planning  position control  quadratic programming  robot kinematics  stability  velocity control  wheels  robot morphologies  legged robots  humanlike form factor  wheeled systems  controllability  motion planner  actively articulated wheeled humanoid robot  gap crossing  dynamically stable motion  robots kinematics  sequential quadratic program algorithm  postural configuration adjustment requirements  velocity control  drive wheels  terrain adaptability  energy consumption  aerobot robot  step climbing  nonlinear constraints  stability  zero moment point  Trajectory  Robot kinematics  Kinematics  Stability analysis  Legged locomotion 
Abstract: There is value in exploring new robot morphologies that combine the benefits of legged robots (i.e. high terrain adaptability, humanlike form factor) with those of wheeled systems (i.e. high stability, low energy consumption). Once the basic design concept has been demonstrated, there is a further requirement to validate the controllability of the system through adaptation and implementation of advanced control techniques. This research presents a motion planner that enables the Aerobot robot, an actively articulated wheeled humanoid robot capable of performing step climbing and gap crossing, to plan dynamically stable motion in response to a range of task conditions. Using a model of the robots kinematics, a motion planner is developed. The sequential quadratic program algorithm is used to solve quadratic objectives and non-linear constraints pertaining to stability and postural configuration adjustment requirements. The results showed good tracking of the robot's Zero Moment Point while transitioning between postural configurations and traversing obstacles. During these phase transitions, robustness in maintaining balance and position is also demonstrated via velocity control of the drive wheels.


Title: Learning To Grasp Under Uncertainty Using POMDPs
Key Words: grippers  humanoid robots  learning (artificial intelligence)  Markov processes  object detection  recurrent neural nets  robust control  service robots  uncertainty handling  visual sensing  partially observable Markov decision process  grasp policy  deep recurrent neural network  imitation learning  model-based POMDP planning  G3DB object dataset  service robots  far-field sensors  open-loop grasp  tactile sensing  adaptive grasping  robust object grasping strategy  uncertainty handling  Uncertainty  Grippers  Grasping  Planning  Sensors  Shape  Computational modeling 
Abstract: Robust object grasping under uncertainty is an essential capability of service robots. Many existing approaches rely on far-field sensors, such as cameras, to compute a grasp pose and perform open-loop grasp after placing gripper under the pose. This often fails as a result of sensing or environment uncertainty. This paper presents a principled, general and efficient approach to adaptive grasping, using both tactile and visual sensing as feedback. We first model adaptive grasping as a partially observable Markov decision process (POMDP), which handles uncertainty naturally. We solve the POMDP for sampled objects from a set, in order to generate data for learning. Finally, we train a grasp policy, represented as a deep recurrent neural network (RNN), in simulation through imitation learning. By combining model-based POMDP planning and imitation learning, the proposed approach achieves robustness under uncertainty, generalization over many objects, and fast execution. In particular, we show that modeling only a small sample of objects enables us to learn a robust strategy to grasp previously unseen objects of varying shapes and recover from failure over multiple steps. Experiments on the G3DB object dataset in simulation and a smaller object set with a real robot indicate promising results.


Title: Adaptive View Planning for Aerial 3D Reconstruction
Key Words: autonomous aerial vehicles  image reconstruction  optimisation  trajectory control  aerial 3D reconstruction  aerial vehicles  high quality reconstruction  adaptive view planning method  coarse proxy  reconstruction error  3D free space  Image reconstruction  Trajectory  Three-dimensional displays  Planning  Image resolution  Feature extraction  Drones 
Abstract: With the proliferation of small aerial vehicles, acquiring close up imagery for high quality reconstruction is gaining importance. We present an adaptive view planning method to collect such images in an automated fashion. We first start by sampling a small set of views to build a coarse proxy to the scene. We then present (i) a method that builds a set of adaptive viewing planes for efficient view selection and (ii) an algorithm to plan a trajectory that guarantees high reconstruction quality which does not deviate too much from the optimal one. The vehicle then follows the trajectory to cover the scene, and the procedure is repeated until reconstruction quality converges or a desired level of quality is achieved. The set of viewing planes provides an effective compromise between using the entire 3D free space and using a single view hemisphere to select the views. We compare our algorithm to existing methods in three challenging scenes. Our algorithm generates views which produce the least reconstruction error comparing to three different baseline approaches.


Title: An Autonomous Loop-Closure Approach for Simultaneous Exploration and Coverage of Unknown Infrastructure Using MAVs
Key Words: autonomous aerial vehicles  inspection  microrobots  mobile robots  spatial measurements  MAV motions  complete exploration  autonomous loop-closure approach  simultaneous exploration  unknown infrastructure  attractive means  critical infrastructure  autonomous tasks  precise spatial model  operational area  sensor measurements  autonomous inspection capabilities  autonomous MAV exploration  unknown structure  spatial information  high-fidelity 3D model  low-cost microaerial vehicles  Planning  Three-dimensional displays  Task analysis  Inspection  Simultaneous localization and mapping 
Abstract: The recent proliferation of low-cost Micro Aerial Vehicles (MAV) offers an attractive means for inspecting critical infrastructure autonomously. However, to enable such autonomous tasks requires a precise spatial model of the structure and operational area, typically constructed using sensor measurements obtained from the environment. To facilitate autonomous inspection capabilities, we address the problem of autonomous MAV exploration and coverage of an unknown structure to acquire the spatial information necessary for the development of a high-fidelity 3D model of the structure. Key to this problem is to not only cover the entire structure to acquire a complete set of spatial measurements, but also to minimize accumulative data errors during the exploration through direct planning of loop closures. We introduce a real-time waypoint planning approach to guide MAV motions to achieve complete exploration, coverage, and loop closure while respecting limited onboard resources.


Title: Multi-Vehicle Close Enough Orienteering Problem with Bézier Curves for Multi-Rotor Aerial Vehicles
Key Words: aircraft control  autonomous aerial vehicles  remotely operated vehicles  unsupervised learning  travel cost  travel budget  Bézier curves  multivehicle CEOP  multirotor aerial vehicles  maximal velocity  acceleration limits  rewarding target locations  multivehicle close enough orienteering problem  surveillance planning  unsupervised learning  Trajectory  Acceleration  Adaptive arrays  Planning  Unsupervised learning  Optimization  Surveillance 
Abstract: This paper introduces the Close Enough Orienteering Problem (CEOP) for planning missions with multi-rotor aerial vehicles considering their maximal velocity and acceleration limits. The addressed problem stands to select the most rewarding target locations and sequence to visit them in the given limited travel budget. The reward is collected within a non-zero range from a particular target location that allows saving the travel cost, and thus collect more rewards. Hence, we are searching for the fastest trajectories to collect the most valuable rewards such that the motion constraints are not violated, and the travel budget is satisfied. We leverage on existing trajectory parametrization based on Bézier curves recently deployed in surveillance planning using unsupervised learning, and we propose to employ the learning in a solution of the introduced multi-vehicle CEOP. Feasibility of the proposed approach is supported by empirical evaluation and experimental deployment using multi-rotor vehicles.


Title: Critically fast pick-and-place with suction cups
Key Words: logistics  manipulator dynamics  manipulator kinematics  mechanical contact  path planning  stability  time optimal control  suction cup contacts  fast robotics pick-and-place  contact stability constraint  logistics  factory lines  object transport  object movement  contact handling  kinodynamic constraint  time-optimal parameterization  geometric paths  physical robot system  Stability analysis  Robots  Planning  Friction  Force  Computational modeling  Pipelines 
Abstract: Fast robotics pick-and-place with suction cups is a crucial component in the current development of automation in logistics (factory lines, e-commerce, etc.). By “critically fast” we mean the fastest possible movement for transporting an object such that it does not slip or fall from the suction cup. The main difficulties are: (i) handling the contact between the suction cup and the object, which fundamentally involves kinodynamic constraints; and (ii) doing so at a low computational cost, typically a few hundreds of milliseconds. To address these difficulties, we propose (a) a model for suction cup contacts, (b) a procedure to identify the contact stability constraint based on that model, and (c) a pipeline to parameterize, in a time-optimal manner, arbitrary geometric paths under the identified contact stability constraint. We experimentally validate the proposed pipeline on a physical robot system: the cycle time for a typical pick-and-place task was less than 5 seconds, planning and execution times included. The full pipeline is released as opensource for the robotics community.


Title: A constrained control-planning strategy for redundant manipulators
Key Words: adaptive control  control system synthesis  fuzzy control  path planning  redundant manipulators  constrained control-planning strategy  redundant manipulators  interconnected control-planning strategy  high-level planning components  adaptive control rule  multibody robotic system  Task analysis  Manipulators  Mathematical model  Optimal control  Planning  Estimation 
Abstract: This paper presents an interconnected control-planning strategy for redundant manipulators, subject to system and environmental constraints. The method incorporates low-level control characteristics and high-level planning components into a robust strategy for manipulators acting in complex environments, subject to joint limits. This strategy is formulated using an adaptive control rule, a computational efficient estimation of the robot's mathematical model and the nullspace of the constraints. A path is generated that takes into account the capabilities of the platform. The proposed method is computationally efficient, enabling its implementation on a real multi-body robotic system. Through experimental results with a 7 degree-of-freedom (DOF) manipulator, we demonstrate the performance of the method in real-world scenarios.


Title: Combining Physical Simulators and Object-Based Networks for Control
Key Words: learning (artificial intelligence)  mobile robots  neural nets  object-based neural network  interacting objects  complex control tasks  object shapes  physical simulators  physics engine  robot planning  real-world control problems  complex contact dynamics  hybrid dynamics model  simulator-augmented interaction networks  Physics  Engines  Analytical models  Task analysis  Robots  Predictive models  Mathematical model 
Abstract: Physics engines play an important role in robot planning and control; however, many real-world control problems involve complex contact dynamics that cannot be characterized analytically. Most physics engines therefore employ approximations that lead to a loss in precision. In this paper, we propose a hybrid dynamics model, simulator-augmented interaction networks (SAIN), combining a physics engine with an object-based neural network for dynamics modeling. Compared with existing models that are purely analytical or purely data-driven, our hybrid model captures the dynamics of interacting objects in a more accurate and data-efficient manner. Experiments both in simulation and on a real robot suggest that it also leads to better performance when used in complex control tasks. Finally, we show that our model generalizes to novel environments with varying object shapes and materials.


Title: A Fleet of Miniature Cars for Experiments in Cooperative Driving
Key Words: automobiles  human factors  mobile robots  motion control  steering systems  trajectory control  vehicle dynamics  unique experimental testbed  trajectory planning  miniature robotic car  Cambridge Minicar  autonomous control strategies  physical multilane setup  miniature highway  large-fleet experimental research  driver models  multilane road topographies  miniature Ackermann-steering vehicles  Automobiles  Trajectory  Traffic control  DC motors  Servomotors  Robot kinematics 
Abstract: We introduce a unique experimental testbed that consists of a fleet of 16 miniature Ackermann-steering vehicles. We are motivated by a lack of available low-cost platforms to support research and education in multi-car navigation and trajectory planning. This article elaborates the design of our miniature robotic car, the Cambridge Minicar, as well as the fleet's control architecture. Our experimental testbed allows us to implement state-of-the-art driver models as well as autonomous control strategies, and test their validity in a real, physical multi-lane setup. Through experiments on our miniature highway, we are able to tangibly demonstrate the benefits of cooperative driving on multi-lane road topographies. Our setup paves the way for indoor large-fleet experimental research.


Title: Multi-robot Informative Path Planning with Continuous Connectivity Constraints
Key Words: graph theory  integer programming  mobile robots  multi-robot systems  path planning  collision-free informative locations  informative paths  base station performs  multirobot system  information collection  continuous connectivity constraints  multirobot informative path planning  time 0.75 s  Robot sensing systems  Base stations  Path planning  Collision avoidance  Entropy  Bipartite graph 
Abstract: We consider the problem of information collection from a polygonal environment using a multi-robot system, subject to continuous connectivity constraints. In particular, the robots, having a common radius of communication range, must remain connected throughout the exploration maximizing the information collection. The information gained through the exploration of the terrain is wirelessly transmitted to a base station. The base station performs the centralized planning of informative paths for the robots based on the information collected by them and thereafter, the robots follow these paths. This paper formulates the problem of multi-robot informative path planning under continuous connectivity constraints as an integer program leveraging the ideas of bipartite graph matching and minimal node separators. Theoretical analysis of the proposed solution proves that the informative paths will be collision-free and will be free of both livelock and deadlock. Experimental results demonstrate the low computational requirements of our algorithm for planning the informative paths, taking only about 0.75 sec. for planning a joint set of collision-free informative locations for 10 robots.


Title: Coverage of an Environment Using Energy-Constrained Unmanned Aerial Vehicles
Key Words: approximation theory  autonomous aerial vehicles  computational complexity  mobile robots  path planning  travelling salesman problems  UGV  area coverage problem  energy-constrained unmanned aerial vehicle  unmanned ground vehicle  symbiotic UAV  NP-hard problem  generalized traveling salesperson problem  boustrophedon cells  limited battery capacity  Batteries  Unmanned aerial vehicles  Agriculture  Robot sensing systems  Strips  Routing 
Abstract: We study the problem of covering an environment using an Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV) with limited battery capacity. We consider a scenario where the UAV can land on an Unmanned Ground Vehicle (UGV) and recharge the onboard battery. The UGV can also recharge the UAV while transporting the UAV to the next take-off site. We present an algorithm to solve a new variant of the area coverage problem that takes into account this symbiotic UAV and UGV system. The input consists of a set of boustrophedon cells - rectangular strips whose width is equal to the field-of-view of the sensor on the UAV. The goal is to find a tour for the UAV that visits and covers all cells in minimum time. This includes flight time for visiting and covering all cells, recharging time, as well as the take-off and landing times. We show how to reduce this problem to a known NP-hard problem, Generalized Traveling Salesperson Problem (GTSP). Given an optimal GTSP solver, our approach finds the optimal coverage paths for the UAV and UGV. We evaluate our algorithm through simulations and proof-of-concept experiments.


Title: Decentralized Formation Coordination of Multiple Quadcopters under Communication Constraints
Key Words: autonomous aerial vehicles  collision avoidance  decentralised control  helicopters  integer programming  linear programming  mobile robots  multi-robot systems  nonlinear programming  robot dynamics  robot kinematics  RSSI  tree searching  outdoor formation coordination  multiple quadcopters  time-optimal speed profile  minimum snap spline path  quadcopter kinematics  wireless communication connectivity  geometric formations  maximum separation distance  minimum viable received signal strength  path loss attenuation  outdoor flight test  formation type  robin communication scheduling scheme  decentralized formation coordination  communication constraints  RH-MINLP  quadcopter dynamics  collision avoidance  outer-approximation branch and bound solver  warm-starting scheme  hardware-in-the-loop  HITL  average radio packet loss statistics  round robin communication scheduling scheme  receding horizon mixed-integer nonlinear program  Splines (mathematics)  Robot kinematics  Collision avoidance  Planning  Optimization  Mobile ad hoc networks 
Abstract: This paper addresses the problem of decentralized, outdoor formation coordination with multiple quadcopters. The problem is formulated as a receding horizon, mixed-integer non-linear program (RH-MINLP). Each quadcopter solves this RH-MINLP to generate its time-optimal speed profile along a minimum snap spline path while coordinating its position in a desired formation with other quadcopters. Constraints on quadcopter kinematics, dynamics, collision avoidance, wireless communication connectivity, and geometric formations are modeled. Communication connectivity is modeled as a constraint on maximum separation distance based on a minimum viable received signal strength in the presence of path loss attenuation. The resulting RH-MINLP is non-convex, and is solved using an outer-approximation branch and bound solver with a warm-starting scheme. The framework is validated via Hardware-in-the-Loop (HITL) and outdoor flight test with up to 6 quadcopters. Results demonstrate the effect of number of quadcopters and formation type on total transit time. Average radio packet loss statistics during transit indicate robust network performance for a round robin communication scheduling scheme.


Title: Online Plan Repair in Multi-robot Coordination with Disturbances
Key Words: collision avoidance  Gaussian processes  multi-robot systems  path planning  RMTRACK control law  Gaussian process  coordination space obstacle  disturbance probabilities  multirobot coordination  online plan repair  Robot kinematics  Collision avoidance  Trajectory  Maintenance engineering  System recovery  Delays 
Abstract: This paper addresses the problem of multi-robot coordination in scenarios where the robots may experience unexpected delays in their movements. Prior work by Čáp, Gregoire, and Frazzołi introduced a control law, called RMTRACK, which enables robots in such scenarios to execute preplanned paths in spite of disturbances in the execution speed of each robot, while guaranteeing that each robot can reach its goal without collisions and without deadlocks. We extend that approach to handle scenarios in which the disturbance probabilities are unknown at the start and non-uniform across the environment. The key idea is to `repair' a plan on-the-fly, by swapping the order in which a pair of robots passes through a mutual collision region (i.e. a coordination space obstacle), when making such a change can be estimated to improve the overall performance of the system. We introduce a technique based on Gaussian Processes to estimate future disturbances, and propose two algorithms for testing, at appropriate times, whether a swap of a given obstacle would be beneficial. Tests in simulation demonstrate that our algorithm achieves significantly smaller average travel time than RMTRACK at only a modest computational expense.


Title: Integrated Mapping and Path Planning for Very Large-Scale Robotic (VLSR) Systems
Key Words: collision avoidance  control engineering computing  mobile robots  multi-robot systems  regression analysis  sensor fusion  decentralized approach  obstacle mapping  continuous probabilistic representation  mapping problem  binary classification task  kernel logistic regression  discriminative classifier online  individual robot maps  path planning algorithm  maximum information value  obstacle avoidance  VLSR system  prior obstacle information  robot paths  Hilbert map fusion method  large-scale robotic systems  onboard range sensors  Robot sensing systems  Entropy  Robot kinematics  Collision avoidance  Path planning 
Abstract: This paper develops a decentralized approach for mapping and information-driven path planning for Very Large Scale Robotic (VLSR) systems. In this approach, obstacle mapping is performed using a continuous probabilistic representation known as a Hilbert map, which formulates the mapping problem as a binary classification task and uses kernel logistic regression to train a discriminative classifier online. A novel Hilbert map fusion method is presented that quickly and efficiently combines the information from individual robot maps. An integrated mapping and path planning algorithm is presented to determine paths of maximum information value, while simultaneously performing obstacle avoidance. Furthermore, the effect of how percentage communication failure effects the overall performance of the system is investigated. The approach is demonstrated on a VLSR system with hundreds of robots that must map obstacles collaboratively over a large region of interest using onboard range sensors and no prior obstacle information. The results show that, through fusion and decentralized processing, the entropy of the map decreases over time and robot paths remain collision-free.


Title: Interaction-Aware Multi-Agent Reinforcement Learning for Mobile Agents with Individual Goals
Key Words: gradient methods  learning (artificial intelligence)  mobile robots  multi-agent systems  multi-robot systems  navigation  path planning  robot programming  interaction-aware multiagent reinforcement learning  mobile agents  individual goals  optimal policy  decentralized learning  mobile robot navigation  policy gradient algorithms  nonstationary policies  curriculum-based strategy  interactive policy learning  Training  Robots  Games  Markov processes  Reinforcement learning  Navigation  Autonomous vehicles 
Abstract: In a multi-agent setting, the optimal policy of a single agent is largely dependent on the behavior of other agents. We investigate the problem of multi-agent reinforcement learning, focusing on decentralized learning in non-stationary domains for mobile robot navigation. We identify a cause for the difficulty in training non-stationary policies: mutual adaptation to sub-optimal behaviors, and we use this to motivate a curriculum-based strategy for learning interactive policies. The curriculum has two stages. First, the agent leverages policy gradient algorithms to learn a policy that is capable of achieving multiple goals. Second, the agent learns a modifier policy to learn how to interact with other agents in a multi-agent setting. We evaluated our approach on both an autonomous driving lane-change domain and a robot navigation domain.


Title: Active Perception in Adversarial Scenarios using Maximum Entropy Deep Reinforcement Learning
Key Words: belief networks  entropy  learning (artificial intelligence)  multi-agent systems  neural nets  planning (artificial intelligence)  stochastic processes  partial observability  adversary agent  autonomous agent  belief space planning  generative adversary modeling  maximum entropy reinforcement learning  stochastic belief space policy  unmodeled adversarial strategies  maximum entropy deep reinforcement learning  active perception problem  potentially adversarial behaviors  uncertainty modeling  standard chance-constraint partially observable Markov decision  Uncertainty  Games  Autonomous agents  Reinforcement learning  Nash equilibrium  Planning  Adaptation models 
Abstract: We pose an active perception problem where an autonomous agent actively interacts with a second agent with potentially adversarial behaviors. Given the uncertainty in the intent of the other agent, the objective is to collect further evidence to help discriminate potential threats. The main technical challenges are the partial observability of the agent intent, the adversary modeling, and the corresponding uncertainty modeling. Note that an adversary agent may act to mislead the autonomous agent by using a deceptive strategy that is learned from past experiences. We propose an approach that combines belief space planning, generative adversary modeling, and maximum entropy reinforcement learning to obtain a stochastic belief space policy. By accounting for various adversarial behaviors in the simulation framework and minimizing the predictability of the autonomous agent's action, the resulting policy is more robust to unmodeled adversarial strategies. This improved robustness is empirically shown against an adversary that adapts to and exploits the autonomous agent's policy when compared with a standard Chance-Constraint Partially Observable Markov Decision Process robust approach.


Title: Online Estimation of Ocean Current from Sparse GPS Data for Underwater Vehicles
Key Words: expectation-maximisation algorithm  Gaussian processes  Global Positioning System  mobile robots  position control  regression analysis  underwater vehicles  online estimation  Gaussian process-based expectation-maximisation algorithm  dead-reckoned position estimates  specialised GP regression scheme  best-fitting ocean  ocean current field  underwater vehicles  underwater robots  Oceans  Sea measurements  Current measurement  Global Positioning System  Trajectory  Estimation 
Abstract: Underwater robots are subject to position drift due to the effect of ocean currents and the lack of accurate localisation while submerged. We are interested in exploiting such position drift to estimate the ocean current in the surrounding area, thereby assisting navigation and planning. We present a Gaussian process (GP)-based expectation-maximisation (EM) algorithm that estimates the underlying ocean current using sparse GPS data obtained on the surface and dead-reckoned position estimates. We first develop a specialised GP regression scheme that exploits the incompressibility of ocean currents to counteract the underdetermined nature of the problem. We then use the proposed regression scheme in an EM algorithm that estimates the best-fitting ocean current in between each GPS fix. The proposed algorithm is validated in simulation and on a real dataset, and is shown to be capable of reconstructing the underlying ocean current field. We expect to use this algorithm to close the loop between planning and estimation for underwater navigation in unknown ocean currents.


Title: Easily Deployable Underwater Acoustic Navigation System for Multi-Vehicle Environmental Sampling Applications
Key Words: autonomous underwater vehicles  inertial navigation  lakes  mobile robots  path planning  underwater acoustic communication  clock synchronization  underwater robotics  autonomous underwater vehicles  GNSS  Lake Geneva  feature tracking  adaptive sampling  underwater environmental sensing  electromagnetic waves  radio communication  satellite based positioning  aerial robotics  multivehicle environmental sampling applications  acoustic navigation system  absolute time information  AUV position  underwater acoustic positioning system  inertial navigation  Acoustics  Global navigation satellite system  Acoustic measurements  Receivers  Clocks  Robot sensing systems 
Abstract: Water as a medium poses a number of challenges for robots, limiting the progress of research in underwater robotics vis-á-vis ground or aerial robotics. The primary challenges are satellite based positioning and radio communication being unusable due to high attenuation of electromagnetic waves in water. We have developed miniature, agile, easy to carry and deploy Autonomous Underwater Vehicles (AUVs) equipped with a suite of sensors for underwater environmental sensing. We previously demonstrated adaptive sampling and feature tracking, and gathered data from a lake for limnological research, with the AUV performing inertial navigation. In this paper, we demonstrate a new underwater acoustic positioning system, which allows on-board estimation of AUV position. Our system uses absolute time information from GNSS for initial clock synchronization and uses one-way-travel-time for range measurements, which makes it scalable in the number of robots. It is easily deployable and does not rely on any installed infrastructure in the environment. We describe various hardware and software components of our system, and present results from experiments in Lake Geneva.


Title: STAMPEDE: A Discrete-Optimization Method for Solving Pathwise-Inverse Kinematics
Key Words: collision avoidance  dynamic programming  end effectors  graph theory  manipulator kinematics  motion control  nonlinear programming  search problems  trajectory control  adaptive sampling  search-space  input end-effector trace  nonlinear trajectory-optimization approach  discrete-optimization method  joint-angles  robot motion translation problem  discrete-space graph-search problem  nonlinear optimization  dynamic-programming algorithm  configuration space  diversity sampling  robot arm trajectories  Stampede  end-effector path function  pathwise-inverse kinematics  per-frame inverse kinematics  collision-free robot motions  6-DOF Cartesian-space end-effector paths  End effectors  Kinematics  Robot motion  Planning  Trajectory 
Abstract: We present a discrete-optimization technique for finding feasible robot arm trajectories that pass through provided 6-DOF Cartesian-space end-effector paths with high accuracy, a problem called pathwise-inverse kinematics. The output from our method consists of a path function of joint-angles that best follows the provided end-effector path function, given some definition of “best”. Our method, called Stampede, casts the robot motion translation problem as a discrete-space graph-search problem where the nodes in the graph are individually solved for using non-linear optimization; framing the problem in such a way gives rise to a well-structured graph that affords an effective best path calculation using an efficient dynamic-programming algorithm. We present techniques for sampling configuration space, such as diversity sampling and adaptive sampling, to construct the search-space in the graph. Through an evaluation, we show that our approach performs well in finding smooth, feasible, collision-free robot motions that match the input end-effector trace with very high accuracy, while alternative approaches, such as a state-of-the-art per-frame inverse kinematics solver and a global non-linear trajectory-optimization approach, performed unfavorably.


Title: Visual-Odometric Localization and Mapping for Ground Vehicles Using SE(2)-XYZ Constraints
Key Words: feature extraction  graph theory  mobile robots  motion control  object detection  path planning  road vehicles  robot vision  ground vehicle  odometric sensors  monocular visual sensors  stochastic constraint  odometric measurement processing  visual-odometric localization  mapping system  out-of SE(2) motion perturbation  SE(2)-XYZ constraint  image feature measurement  preintegration algorithm  graph optimization structure  Visualization  Optimization  Land vehicles  Perturbation methods  Robots  Jacobian matrices  Sensors 
Abstract: This paper focuses on the localization and mapping problem on ground vehicles using odometric and monocular visual sensors. To improve the accuracy of vision based estimation on ground vehicles, researchers have exploited the constraint of approximately planar motion, and usually implemented it as a stochastic constraint on an SE(3) pose. In this paper, we propose a simpler algorithm that directly parameterizes the ground vehicle poses on SE(2). The out-of SE(2) motion perturbations are not neglected, but incorporated into an integrated noise term of a novel SE(2)-XYZ constraint, which associates an SE(2) pose and a 3D landmark via the image feature measurement. For odometric measurement processing, we also propose an efficient preintegration algorithm on SE(2). Utilizing these constraints, a complete visual-odometric localization and mapping system is developed, in a commonly used graph optimization structure. Its superior performance in accuracy and robustness is validated by real-world experiments in industrial indoor environments.


Title: Keyframe-based Direct Thermal–Inertial Odometry
Key Words: cameras  distance measurement  Global Positioning System  inertial navigation  measurement errors  mobile robots  optimisation  path planning  radiometry  sensor fusion  temperature measurement  temperature sensors  keyframe-based direct thermal-inertial odometry  thermal camera  inertial measurements  airborne obscurants  fog  smoke  optimization based approach  inertial measurement errors  GPS  direct radiometric data fusion  aerial robotic capabilities  visually degraded environments  reprojection error minimisation  3D landmark error  indoor laboratory setting  underground mine  Cameras  Robot vision systems  Radiometry  Estimation  Unmanned aerial vehicles  Optimization 
Abstract: This paper proposes an approach for fusing direct radiometric data from a thermal camera with inertial measurements to extend the robotic capabilities of aerial robots for navigation in GPS-denied and visually degraded environments in the conditions of darkness and in the presence of airborne obscurants such as dust, fog and smoke. An optimization based approach is developed that jointly minimizes the re-projection error of 3D landmarks and inertial measurement errors. The developed solution is extensively verified against both ground-truth in an indoor laboratory setting, as well as inside an underground mine under severely visually degraded conditions.


Title: On Parameter Estimation of Space Manipulator Systems with Flexible Joints Using the Energy Balance*
Key Words: aerospace robotics  damping  flexible manipulators  manipulator dynamics  mobile robots  motion control  parameter estimation  path planning  manipulators  joint flexibilities  path planning  tracking capabilities  system inertial parameters  damping parameters  space flexible-joint manipulator system  system full dynamics  space manipulator systems  flexible joints  stiffness parameters  parameter estimation  Mathematical model  Space vehicles  Manipulator dynamics  Parameter estimation  Damping  Estimation 
Abstract: The parameter estimation of space manipulator systems on orbit is studied, whose manipulators are subject to joint flexibilities. To improve path planning and tracking capabilities, advanced control strategies that benefit from the knowledge of system parameters are required. These parameters include the system inertial parameters as well as the stiffness and damping parameters, which describe joint flexibilities. During operation some of these parameters may change or be unknown. Estimation methods based on the equations of motion are sensitive to noise, while methods based on the angular momentum conservation, while they are tolerant to noise, they cannot estimate the parameters that describe joint flexibilities. A parameter estimation method, based on the energy balance, applied during the motion of a space flexible-joint manipulator system in the free-floating mode, is developed. The method is tolerant to noise and can reconstruct the system full dynamics. It is shown that the parameters estimated by the proposed method can describe the system dynamics fully. The application of the developed method is valid for spatial systems; it is illustrated by a planar 7 degrees of freedom (DoF) example system.


Title: Design and Evaluation of an Energy-Saving Drive for a Versatile Robotic Gripper
Key Words: actuators  dexterous manipulators  energy conservation  energy consumption  grippers  motion control  path planning  energy-saving drive  robotic grippers  energy consumption  energy-savings  energy-neutral grippers  robotic energy-efficient drive  grip performance metric  nonbackdrivable mechanism  statically balanced force amplifier  SBFA  NBDM  Grippers  Force  Measurement  Robots  Energy consumption  Task analysis  Springs 
Abstract: The main task of robotic grippers, holding an object, does not require work theoretically. Yet grippers consume significant amounts of energy in practice. This paper presents an approach for designing an energy-saving drive for robotic grippers employing a Statically Balanced Force Amplifier (SBFA) and a Non-backdrivable mechanism (NBDM). A novel metric (Grip Performance Metric) to systematically evaluate drives regarding their energy consumption, is used in the design phase; afterwards, the realization and testing of a prototype (REED, Robotic Energy-Efficient Drive) are presented. Results show that the actuation force can be reduced by 92%, resulting in energy-savings of 86% for an example task. This shows the potential of drives based on SBFAs and NBDMs to achieve energy-neutral grippers.


Title: Safe Adaptive Switching among Dynamical Movement Primitives: Application to 3D Limit-Cycle Walkers
Key Words: gait analysis  humanoid robots  legged locomotion  motion control  path planning  robot dynamics  safe adaptive switching  dynamical movement primitives  robot motion plans  3D bipedal robot model  dynamic movement primitives  primitive movements  limit-cycle walking gait  control-theoretic tools  Switches  Limit-cycles  Safety  Task analysis  Legged locomotion  Dynamics 
Abstract: Complex robot motions are frequently generated by composing simpler primitive movements. We use this approach to formulate robot motion plans as sequences of primitives to be executed one after the other. When dealing with dynamical movement primitives, besides accomplishing the high-level objective, planners must also reason about the effect of the plan's execution on the safety of the platform. This task is exacerbated by the presence of disturbances, such as non-vanishing external forces. To address this issue, we present a framework that builds on rigorous control-theoretic tools to generate safely executable motion plans for externally excited robotic systems. We illustrate the proposed framework on adapting the motion of a 3D bipedal robot model to persistent external forcing by switching among dynamic movement primitives, each corresponding to a limit-cycle walking gait.


Title: Semantic mapping extension for OpenStreetMap applied to indoor robot navigation
Key Words: graph theory  mobile robots  path planning  OpenStreetMap  geometrical information  basic indoor structures  architectural principles  application-specific knowledge  graph-based map representation  hierarchical structure  semantic mapping extension  indoor robot navigation  grid-based motion planning algorithms  Robots  Semantics  Data models  Geometry  Navigation  Indoor environment  Tagging 
Abstract: In this work a graph-based, semantic mapping approach for indoor robotics applications is presented, which is extending OpenStreetMap (OSM) with robotic-specific, semantic, topological, and geometrical information. Models are introduced for basic indoor structures such as walls, doors, corridors, elevators, etc. The architectural principles support composition with additional domain and application-specific knowledge. As an example, a model for an area is introduced, and it is explained how this can be used in navigation. A key advantage of the proposed graph-based map representation is that it allows exploiting the hierarchical structure of the graphs. Finally, the compatibility of the approach with existing, grid-based motion planning algorithms is shown.


Title: Evaluating the Effectiveness of Perspective Aware Planning with Panoramas
Key Words: image colour analysis  image sensors  object detection  path planning  robot vision  SLAM (robots)  binary coverage  goal selection strategy  image morphology  search space  CSQMI  perspective aware planning  information based exploration strategy  high resolution 3D maps  RGBD panoramas  angle enhanced occupancy grid  exploration strategy  maximal Cauchy-Schwarz quadratic mutual information  logging image control  Skeleton  Mutual information  Task analysis  Cameras  Robot vision systems 
Abstract: In this work, we present an information based exploration strategy tailored for the generation of high resolution 3D maps. We employ RGBD panoramas because they have been shown to provide memory efficient high quality representations of space. Robots explore the environment by selecting locations with maximal Cauchy-Schwarz Quadratic Mutual Information (CSQMI) computed on an angle enhanced occupancy grid to collect these RGBD panoramas. By employing the angle enhanced occupancy grid, the resulting exploration strategy emphasizes perspective in addition to binary coverage. Furthermore, the goal selection strategy is improved by using image morphology to reduce the search space over which CSQMI is computed. We present experimental results demonstrating the improved performance in perception related tasks by capturing panoramas using this approach, near frontier exploration, and a control of logging images at regular intervals while teleoperating the robot through the workspace. Collect imagery was passed through an object detection library with our perspective aware approach yielding a greater number of successful detections compared to near frontier exploration.


Title: Actively Improving Robot Navigation On Different Terrains Using Gaussian Process Mixture Models
Key Words: Gaussian processes  mixture models  mobile robots  navigation  path planning  robot navigation  outdoor environments  place-dependent model  aerial image  path planning  Gaussian process mixture model  Robots  Navigation  Vibrations  Mixture models  Energy consumption  Gaussian processes  Planning 
Abstract: Robot navigation in outdoor environments is exposed to detrimental factors such as vibrations or power consumption due to the different terrains on which the robot navigates. In this paper, we address the problem of actively improving navigation by planning paths that aim at reducing over time phenomena such as vibrations during traversal. Our approach uses a Gaussian Process (GP) mixture model and an aerial image of the environment to learn and improve continuously a place-dependent model of such phenomena from the experiences of the robot. We use this model to plan paths that trade-off the exploration of unknown promising regions and the exploitation of known areas where the impact of the detrimental factors on navigation is low, leading to an improved navigation over time. We implemented our approach and thoroughly tested it using real-world data. Our experiments suggest that our approach with no initial information leads the robot, after few runs, to follow paths along which it experiences similar vibrations or energy consumption as if it was following the optimal path computed given the ground truth information.


Title: Contact–based Navigation Path Planning for Aerial Robots
Key Words: autonomous aerial vehicles  mobile robots  path planning  remotely operated vehicles  robot dynamics  robot kinematics  aerial robots  in-contact operation  contact missions  flying robot  navigation mode  cartwheel mode  navigation modalities  in-contact navigation  specialized contact mechanism  contact-based navigation path planning  Navigation  Task analysis  Unmanned aerial vehicles  Inspection  Path planning  Mobile robots 
Abstract: In this paper the problem of contact-based navigation path planning for aerial robots is considered with the goal of enabling the autonomous in-contact operation on surfaces that can be highly anomalous. Such a capacity can prove critical in inspection through contact missions, as well as when a flying robot is tasked to operate in very narrow environments rendering safe free-flight impossible. To achieve this objective, beyond sliding in contact, a new locomotion primitive is introduced, namely that of azimuth rotations perpendicular to the surface under consideration. This new navigation mode, called flying cartwheel mode, offers navigation resourcefulness and resilience when the system is tasked to move in contact with surfaces that are otherwise non-traversable. The designed path planning method exploits both navigation modalities and a traversability metric to decide when to switch from sliding to flying cartwheel mode, and overall provides cost-optimal trajectories for in-contact navigation. The proposed approach is verified both in simulation, as well as experimentally using a surface presenting complex anomalies. It is highlighted that the proposed method does not assume any specialized contact mechanism or a control law tailored to physical interaction tasks, and hence is applicable to almost any micro aerial vehicle integrating protective shrouds around its propellers.


Title: Urban Swarms: A new approach for autonomous waste management
Key Words: geographic information systems  mobile robots  multi-robot systems  navigation  path planning  refuse disposal  service robots  garbage collection scenarios  urban swarms  ecosystems  bio-inspired foraging methods  multiplace foraging  real-world GIS data  robot swarms  urban waste management system  stigmergy-based navigation  urban environment  swarm robotics system  autonomous waste management  Robots  Urban areas  Roads  Waste management  RFID tags  Swarm robotics  Batteries 
Abstract: Modern cities are growing ecosystems that face new challenges due to the increasing population demands. One of the many problems they face nowadays is waste management, which has become a pressing issue requiring new solutions. Swarm robotics systems have been attracting an increasing amount of attention in the past years and they are expected to become one of the main driving factors for innovation in the field of robotics. The research presented in this paper explores the feasibility of a swarm robotics system in an urban environment. By using bio-inspired foraging methods such as multi-place foraging and stigmergy-based navigation, a swarm of robots is able to improve the efficiency and autonomy of the urban waste management system in a realistic scenario. To achieve this, a diverse set of simulation experiments was conducted using real-world GIS data and implementing different garbage collection scenarios driven by robot swarms. Results presented in this research show that the proposed system outperforms current approaches. Moreover, results not only show the efficiency of our solution, but also give insights about how to design and customize these systems.


Title: A Multi-Vehicle Trajectories Generator to Simulate Vehicle-to-Vehicle Encountering Scenarios
Key Words: mobile robots  path planning  position control  remotely operated vehicles  road traffic  road vehicles  vehicle-to-vehicle encountering scenarios  autonomous vehicle development  multivehicle trajectory generator  MTG  multivehicle interaction scenarios  driving encounter scenarios  multibranch decoder  vehicle-to-vehicle encounters  autonomous vehicles  Trajectory  Measurement  Decoding  Generators  Bidirectional control  Generative adversarial networks  Stability analysis 
Abstract: Generating multi-vehicle trajectories from existing limited data can provide rich resources for autonomous vehicle development and testing. This paper introduces a multi-vehicle trajectory generator (MTG) that can encode multi-vehicle interaction scenarios (called driving encounters) into an interpretable representation from which new driving encounter scenarios are generated by sampling. The MTG consists of a bi-directional encoder and a multi-branch decoder. A new disentanglement metric is then developed for model analyses and comparisons in terms of model robustness and the independence of the latent codes. Comparison of our proposed MTG with β-VAE and InfoGAN demonstrates that the MTG has stronger capability to purposely generate rational vehicle-to-vehicle encounters through operating the disentangled latent codes. Thus the MTG could provide more data for engineers and researchers to develop testing and evaluation scenarios for autonomous vehicles.


Title: Miniaturization of multistage high dynamic range six-axis force sensor composed of resin material
Key Words: learning (artificial intelligence)  mobile robots  motion control  path planning  robot vision  mobile robots  learning (artificial intelligence)  robot vision  path planning  motion control  medical robotics  optimisation  object detection  position control  collision avoidance  Force sensors  Structural beams  Force  Robot sensing systems  Stress  Strain  Creep 
Abstract: The following topics are dealt with: mobile robots; learning (artificial intelligence); robot vision; path planning; motion control; medical robotics; optimisation; object detection; position control; collision avoidance.


Title: How Shall I Drive? Interaction Modeling and Motion Planning towards Empathetic and Socially-Graceful Driving
Key Words: game theory  intelligent robots  learning (artificial intelligence)  mobile robots  path planning  predictive control  remotely operated vehicles  AV  human driver  social awareness  passive-aggressive motions  interaction modeling  socially-graceful driving  autonomous vehicles  two-player game  model predictive control  social gracefulness  intent inference  motion planning  Planning  Games  Vehicles  Adaptation models  Inference algorithms  Estimation  Loss measurement 
Abstract: While intelligence of autonomous vehicles (AVs) has significantly advanced in recent years, accidents involving AVs suggest that these autonomous systems lack gracefulness in driving when interacting with human drivers. In the setting of a two-player game, we propose model predictive control based on social gracefulness, which is measured by the discrepancy between the actions taken by the AV and those that could have been taken in favor of the human driver. We define social awareness as the ability of an agent to infer such favorable actions based on knowledge about the other agent's intent, and further show that empathy, i.e., the ability to understand others' intent by simultaneously inferring others' understanding of the agent's self intent, is critical to successful intent inference. Lastly, through an intersection case, we show that the proposed gracefulness objective allows an AV to learn more sophisticated behavior, such as passive-aggressive motions that gently force the other agent to yield.


Title: Improved Coverage Path Planning Using a Virtual Sensor Footprint: a Case Study on Demining
Key Words: mobile robots  optimisation  path planning  sensors  physical sensor  virtual footprint  optimization problem  energy performances  virtual sensor footprint  coverage path planning problem  robotic arm  larger areas  platform moves  larger footprint  metal detector  Robot sensing systems  Manipulators  Metals  Detectors  Trajectory  Shape 
Abstract: Coverage performance in a coverage path planning problem depends both on the path created and on the footprint of the sensor used. The footprint can be increased either by increasing the size of the sensor, or by mounting the sensor on a robotic arm to allow scanning over larger areas as the platform moves, effectively creating a virtual sensor with a larger footprint than the physical sensor's. However, the virtual footprint comes at a cost requiring formulating an optimization problem for the area of interest. In this work, three common strategies to use a metal detector on a platform are discussed, their time and energy performances are formulated and the corresponding optima are found.


Title: Velocity Constrained Trajectory Generation for a Collinear Mecanum Wheeled Robot
Key Words: mobile robots  path planning  trajectory control  velocity constrained trajectory generation  underactuated unstable aerial vehicles  linear accelerations  trajectory planner  trajectory timing characteristics  omnidirectional balancing robot  collinear Mecanum wheeled robot  ground based omnidirectional dynamically balancing robots  trajectory optimisation methods  differentially flat model  collinear Mecanum drive  Trajectory  Planning  Wheels  Mobile robots  Transmission line matrix methods  Acceleration 
Abstract: While much research has been conducted into the generation of smooth trajectories for underactuated unstable aerial vehicles such as quadrotors, less attention has been paid to the application of the same techniques to ground based omnidirectional dynamically balancing robots. These systems have more control authority over their linear accelerations than aerial vehicles, meaning trajectory smoothness is less of a critical design parameter. However, when operating in indoor environments these systems must often adhere to relatively low velocity constraints, resulting in very conservative trajectories when enforced using existing trajectory optimisation methods. This paper makes two contributions; this gap is bridged by the extension of these existing methods to create a fast velocity constrained trajectory planner, with trajectory timing characteristics derived from the optimal minimum-time solution of a simplified acceleration and velocity constrained model. Next, a differentially flat model of an omnidirectional balancing robot utilizing a collinear Mecanum drive is derived, which is used to allow an experimental prototype of this configuration to smoothly follow these velocity constrained trajectories.


Title: A Heuristic for Task Allocation and Routing of Heterogeneous Robots while Minimizing Maximum Travel Cost
Key Words: approximation theory  minimax techniques  path planning  robots  travelling salesman problems  task allocation  heterogeneous robots  path planning problem  min-max objective  min-max MDHTSP  travel cost  multiple depot heterogeneous traveling salesman problem  primal-dual technique  Robots  Task analysis  Routing  Resource management  Traveling salesman problems  Approximation algorithms  Heuristic algorithms 
Abstract: The article proposes a new heuristic for task allocation and routing of heterogeneous robots. Specifically, we consider a path planning problem where there are two (structurally) heterogeneous robots that start from distinctive depots and a set of targets to visit. The objective is to find a tour for each robot in a manner that enables each target location to be visited at least once by one of the robots while minimizing the maximum travel cost. A solution for Multiple Depot Heterogeneous Traveling Salesman Problem (MDHTSP) with min-max objective is in great demand with many potential applications, because it can significantly reduce the job completion duration. However, there are still no reliable algorithms that can run in short amount of time. As an initial idea of solving min-max MDHTSP, we present a heuristic based on a primal-dual technique that solves for a case involving two robots while focusing on task allocation. Based on computational results of the implementation, we show that the proposed algorithm produces a good quality of feasible solution within a relatively short computation time.


Title: Solving Methods for Multi-Robot Missions Planning with Energy Capacity Consideration
Key Words: autonomous aerial vehicles  iterative methods  matrix algebra  minimisation  multi-robot systems  path planning  distance matrix  multiphase heuristic  two-phase iterative heuristic  branch-and-cut algorithm  decomposition-based approximate methods  high quality solutions  heterogeneous vehicles  energy capacity consideration  multirobot missions planning  Robots  Iterative methods  Task analysis  Linear programming  Planning  Resource management  Routing 
Abstract: We consider a problem minimizing the total duration of accomplishing missions performed by heterogeneous vehicles. The problem respects constraints related to vehicles' capabilities and energy capacities. The goal is to determine the best routes of each vehicle deployed by choosing which waypoints to pass and which observations to perform. Each vehicle has a particular distance matrix and a limited energy. In order to provide high quality solutions within reasonable computational time, two decomposition-based approximate methods were implemented: (i) the Multiphase heuristic, and (ii) the Two-Phase iterative heuristic. The performance of the methods is evaluated against the Branch-and-Cut algorithm using generated instances.


Title: Salty-A Domain Specific Language for GR(1) Specifications and Designs
Key Words: autonomous aerial vehicles  control system synthesis  formal specification  mobile robots  path planning  program debugging  remotely operated vehicles  specification languages  sanity checking  high-level specifications  domain-specific language  specification optimization  robot controller design  specification patterns  Salty domain specific language  GR(1) specifications  correct-by-construction synthesis approach  generalized reactivity(1) specifications  Slugs synthesis tool  multiple unmanned air vehicles  UAV  Target tracking  Robot kinematics  Tools  Software  Unmanned aerial vehicles  Control systems 
Abstract: Designing robot controllers that correctly react to changes in the environment is a time-consuming and error-prone process. An alternative is to use “correct-by-construction” synthesis approaches to automatically generate controller designs from high-level specifications. In particular, Generalized Reactivity(l) or GR(1) specifications are well-suited to express specifications for robots that must act in dynamic environments, and approaches to generate controller designs from GR(1) specifications are highly computationally efficient. Toward that end, this paper presents Salty, a domain-specific language for GR(1) specifications. While tools exist to synthesize system designs from GR(1) specifications, Salty makes such specifications easier to write and debug by supporting features such as richer input and output types, user-defined macros, common specification patterns, and specification optimization and sanity checking. Salty interfaces with the separately developed synthesis tool Slugs to produce a system or controller design, and Salty translates this design to a software implementation in a variety of languages. We demonstrate Salty on an application involving coordination of multiple unmanned air vehicles (UAVs) and provide a workflow for connecting synthesized UAV controllers to freely available UAV planning and simulation software suites UxAS and AMASE.


Title: Persistent Multi-Robot Mapping in an Uncertain Environment
Key Words: mobile robots  multi-agent systems  multi-robot systems  path planning  probability  multiagent spatio-temporal states  world model  persistent multirobot mapping  uncertain environment  constrained energy capacities  typical occupancy map approaches  static world  occupancy probability  grid cells  promotes revisitation  unchanging areas  naive planning  tractable subproblems  tractable computation time  Robots  Clustering algorithms  Indexes  Planning  Computational modeling  Sensors  Heuristic algorithms 
Abstract: This paper proposes a method to deploy teams of robots with constrained energy capacities to persistently maintain a map of an uncertain environment. Typical occupancy map approaches assume a static world; however, we introduce a decay in confidence that degrades the occupancy probability of grid cells and promotes revisitation. Further, sections of the map whose occupancy differs between observations are visited more frequently, while unchanging areas are scheduled less frequently. While naive planning is intractable through the entire space of multi-agent spatio-temporal states, the proposed algorithm decouples planning such that constraints are resolved separately by solving tracTable subproblems. We evaluate this approach in simulation and show how the uncertainty of our world model is maintained below an acceptable threshold while the algorithm retains a tractable computation time.


Title: A Fog Robotics Approach to Deep Robot Learning: Application to Object Recognition and Grasp Planning in Surface Decluttering
Key Words: cloud computing  control engineering computing  learning (artificial intelligence)  mobile robots  object recognition  path planning  robot programming  robot vision  storage management  fog robotics  mobile robot  grasp planning model  nonpublic synthetic images  deep object recognition  nonprivate synthetic images  deep models  centralized Cloud Robotics model  surface decluttering  deep robot learning  Cloud computing  Robot sensing systems  Computational modeling  Adaptation models  Security  Data models 
Abstract: The growing demand of industrial, automotive and service robots presents a challenge to the centralized Cloud Robotics model in terms of privacy, security, latency, bandwidth, and reliability. In this paper, we present a `Fog Robotics' approach to deep robot learning that distributes compute, storage and networking resources between the Cloud and the Edge in a federated manner. Deep models are trained on non-private (public) synthetic images in the Cloud; the models are adapted to the private real images of the environment at the Edge within a trusted network and subsequently, deployed as a service for low-latency and secure inference/prediction for other robots in the network. We apply this approach to surface decluttering, where a mobile robot picks and sorts objects from a cluttered floor by learning a deep object recognition and a grasp planning model. Experiments suggest that Fog Robotics can improve performance by sim-to-real domain adaptation in comparison to exclusively using Cloud or Edge resources, while reducing the inference cycle time by 4× to successfully declutter 86% of objects over 213 attempts.


Title: Streamlines for Motion Planning in Underwater Currents
Key Words: autonomous underwater vehicles  motion control  path planning  reachability analysis  sampling methods  stream functions  control space  complicated flows  underwater currents  underwater vehicles  ocean currents  reachability  sampling-based motion planning  Australia  Aerospace electronics  Planning  Underwater vehicles  Two dimensional displays  Oceans  Australia  Level set 
Abstract: Motion planning for underwater vehicles must consider the effect of ocean currents. We present an efficient method to compute reachability and cost between sample points in sampling-based motion planning that supports long-range planning over hundreds of kilometres in complicated flows. The idea is to search a reduced space of control inputs that consists of stream functions whose level sets, or streamlines, optimally connect two given points. Such stream functions are generated by superimposing a control input onto the underlying current flow. A streamline represents the resulting path that a vehicle would follow as it is carried along by the current given that control input. We provide rigorous analysis that shows how our method avoids exhaustive search of the control space, and demonstrate simulated examples in complicated flows including a traversal along the east coast of Australia, using actual current predictions, between Sydney and Brisbane.


Title: A Unified Closed-Loop Motion Planning Approach For An I-AUV In Cluttered Environment With Localization Uncertainty
Key Words: autonomous underwater vehicles  closed loop systems  collision avoidance  cooperative systems  manipulators  mobile robots  motion control  optimisation  position control  remotely operated vehicles  cluttered environment  localization uncertainty  trajectory optimization problem  optimal trajectory  I-AUV trajectories  optimization solvers  quasiquadratic optimization problems  null space saturation controller  cluttered underwater environments  optimal collision-free  intervention autonomous underwater vehicle  linear-quadratic-Gaussian controller  base trajectories  unified closed-loop motion planning approach  Trajectory  Planning  Manipulators  Uncertainty  Optimization  Aerospace electronics  Task analysis  Intervention AUV  Motion planning  Uncertainty minimization 
Abstract: This paper presents a unified motion planning approach for an Intervention Autonomous Underwater Vehicle (I-AUV) in a cluttered environment with localization uncertainty. With the uncertainty being propagated by an information filter, a trajectory optimization problem closed by a Linear-Quadratic-Gaussian controller is formulated for a coupled design of optimal trajectory, localization, and control. Due to the presence of obstacles or complexity of the cluttered environment, a set of feasible initial I-AUV trajectories covering multiple homotopy classes are required by optimization solvers. Parameterized through polynomials, the initial base trajectories are from solving quasi-quadratic optimization problems that are linearly constrained by waypoints from RRTconnect, while the initial trajectories of the manipulator are generated by a null space saturation controller. Simulations on an I-AUV with a 3 DOF manipulator in cluttered underwater environments demonstrated that initial trajectories are generated efficiently and that optimal and collision-free I-AUV trajectories with low state uncertainty are obtained.


Title: Project AutoVision: Localization and 3D Scene Perception for an Autonomous Vehicle with a Multi-Camera System
Key Words: cameras  geometry  image reconstruction  mobile robots  path planning  remotely operated vehicles  robot vision  stereo image processing  video signal processing  sensor suite  autonomous vehicle  multicamera system  3D scene perception capabilities  self-driving vehicle  autonomous navigation  urban environments  rural environments  exteroceptive sensors  AutoVision project  multiview geometry  Cameras  Sensors  Three-dimensional displays  Calibration  Laser radar  Autonomous vehicles  Lighting 
Abstract: Project AutoVision aims to develop localization and 3D scene perception capabilities for a self-driving vehicle. Such capabilities will enable autonomous navigation in urban and rural environments, in day and night, and with cameras as the only exteroceptive sensors. The sensor suite employs many cameras for both 360-degree coverage and accurate multi-view stereo; the use of low-cost cameras keeps the cost of this sensor suite to a minimum. In addition, the project seeks to extend the operating envelope to include GNSS-less conditions which are typical for environments with tall buildings, foliage, and tunnels. Emphasis is placed on leveraging multi-view geometry and deep learning to enable the vehicle to localize and perceive in 3D space. This paper presents an overview of the project, and describes the sensor suite and current progress in the areas of calibration, localization, and perception.


Title: Belief Space Planning for Reducing Terrain Relative Localization Uncertainty in Noisy Elevation Maps
Key Words: astronomical image processing  digital elevation models  Global Positioning System  mobile robots  path planning  planetary rovers  robot vision  solid modelling  terrain mapping  belief space planning  noisy map data  elevation data  lunar orbital imagery  terrain relative localization uncertainty  noisy elevation  accurate global localization  operational risk  initial exploration missions  global position  terrain relative navigation  TRN  planetary rover-perspective images  digital elevation models  absolute positioning  orbital data  terrain features  GPS  satellite orbital imagery  Uncertainty  Planning  Noise measurement  Space vehicles  Navigation  Planetary orbits 
Abstract: Accurate global localization is essential for planetary rovers to reach mission goals and mitigate operational risk. For initial exploration missions, it is inappropriate to deploy GPS or build other infrastructure for navigating. One way of determining global position is to use terrain relative navigation (TRN). TRN compares planetary rover-perspective images and 3D models to existing satellite orbital imagery and digital elevation models (DEMs) for absolute positioning. However, TRN is limited by the quality of orbital data and the presence and uniqueness of terrain features. This work presents a novel combination of belief space planning with terrain relative navigation. Additionally, we introduce a new method for increasing the robustness of belief space planning to noisy map data. The new algorithm provides a statistically significant reduction in localization uncertainty when tested on elevation data produced from lunar orbital imagery.


Title: Soil Displacement Terramechanics for Wheel-Based Trenching with a Planetary Rover
Key Words: aerospace robotics  mobile robots  planetary rovers  soil  wheels  trenching  autonomous trenching  front wheel  rear wheel  deep trench  single wheel experiments  driving strategy  closed-form model  digging operations  wheel actuators  planetary exploration rovers  wheel-based trenching  soil displacement terramechanics  Wheels  Soil  Geometry  Deformable models  Mathematical model  Predictive models  Finite element analysis 
Abstract: Planetary exploration rovers are expensive, weight constrained, and cannot be serviced once deployed. Here, we explore one way to increase their capabilities while avoiding the cost, mass, and complexity leading to these issues. We propose to re-use the large wheel actuators for trenching and other digging operations, which will enable a range of missions such as sampling deeper layers of soil. We present a new, closed-form model of the soil displaced by an angled, spinning wheel to analyze the trenching potential of a driving strategy and inform the control of the wheel. The model is demonstrated with single wheel experiments under different driving conditions. The model suggests: that a deep trench does not require large tractive efforts; that the shape of the trench can be controlled; and that a rear wheel has a lower risk of entrapment when trenching than a front wheel. Ultimately this model could be used in a nonprehensile manipulation planning or learning algorithm to enable autonomous trenching.


Title: Estimating the Localizability in Tunnel-like Environments using LiDAR and UWB
Key Words: Global Positioning System  inspection  mobile robots  optical radar  path planning  probability  robot vision  sensor fusion  tunnels  ultra wideband technology  UWB  inspection tasks  autonomous navigation technology  robot localization techniques  GPS-denied environments  onboard sensors  cameras  LiDAR  probabilistic sensor fusion method  tunnel-like environments  degeneration characterization model  ultra-wideband ranging radio  Robot sensing systems  Laser radar  Uncertainty  Probabilistic logic  Distance measurement 
Abstract: The application of robots in inspection tasks has been growing quickly thanks to the advancements in autonomous navigation technology, especially the robot localization techniques in GPS-denied environments. Although many methods have been proposed to localize a robot using onboard sensors such as cameras and LiDARs, achieving robust localization in geometrically degenerated environments, e.g. tunnels, remains a challenging problem. In this work, we focus on the robust localization problem in such situations. A novel degeneration characterization model is presented to estimate the localizability at a given location in the prior map. And the localizability of a LiDAR and an Ultra-Wideband (UWB) ranging radio is analyzed. Additionally, a probabilistic sensor fusion method is developed to combine IMU, LiDAR and the UWB. Experiment results show that this method allows for robust localization inside a long straight tunnel.


Title: Safe and Efficient High Dimensional Motion Planning in Space-Time with Time Parameterized Prediction
Key Words: collision avoidance  human-robot interaction  manipulators  mobile robots  probability  trajectory control  human-robot collaborative environments  pre-planned path  6-joint manipulator  human hand  robot trajectories  obstacle-avoidance strategies  motion planning  lazy safe interval probabilistic roadmap  Planning  Robots  Trajectory  Prediction algorithms  Heuristic algorithms  Collision avoidance  Real-time systems 
Abstract: In this work, we propose an algorithm that can plan safe and efficient robot trajectories in real time, given time-parameterized motion predictions, in order to avoid fast-moving obstacles in human-robot collaborative environments. Our algorithm is able to reduce the robot configuration space and the time domain significantly by constructing a Lazy Safe Interval Probabilistic Roadmap based on a pre-planned path. The algorithm then plans efficient obstacle-avoidance strategies within the space-time roadmap. We benchmarked our algorithm by evaluating the performance of a simulated 6-joint manipulator attempting to avoid a quickly moving human hand, using a dataset collected from human experiments. We compared our algorithm's performance with those of 8 variations of prior state-of-the-art planners. Results from this empirical evaluation indicate that our method generated safe plans in 97.5% of the evaluated situations, achieved a planning speed 30 times faster than the benchmarked methods that planned in the time domain without space reduction, and accomplished the minimal solution execution time among the benchmarked planners with a similar planning speed.


Title: Adaptive Gait Planning for Walking Assistance Lower Limb Exoskeletons in Slope Scenarios
Key Words: adaptive control  gait analysis  humanoid robots  legged locomotion  medical robotics  motion control  pendulums  robot dynamics  adaptive gait planning approach  lower-limb walking assistance exoskeletons  human-exoskeleton system  reference foot locations  adaptive gait trajectories  level ground walking  paraplegic patients  slope terrains  stepping locations  dynamic movement primitives  2D linear inverted pendulum model  dynamic gait generator  conventional capture point theory  Legged locomotion  Exoskeletons  Foot  Trajectory  Adaptation models  Force  Planning  Adaptive Gait Planning  Lower-limb Exoskeleton  LIPM  Dynamic Movement Primitives  Slope 
Abstract: Lower-limb exoskeleton has gained considerable interests in walking assistance applications for paraplegic patients. In walking assistance of paraplegic patients, the exoskeleton should have the ability to help patients to walk over different terrains in the daily life, such as slope terrains. One critical issue is how to plan the stepping locations on slopes with different gradients, and generate stable and human-like gaits for patients. This paper proposed an adaptive gait planning approach which can generate gait trajectories adapt to slopes with different gradients for lower-limb walking assistance exoskeletons. We modeled the human-exoskeleton system as a 2D Linear Inverted Pendulum Model (2D-LIPM) with an external force in the two-dimensional sagittal plane, and proposed a Dynamic Gait Generator (DGG) based on an extension of the conventional Capture Point (CP) theory and Dynamic Movement Primitives (DMPs). The proposed approach can dynamically generate reference foot locations for each step on slopes, and human-like adaptive gait trajectories can be reproduced after the learning from demonstrated trajectories that sampled from level ground walking of normal healthy human. We demonstrated the efficiency of the proposed approach on both the Gazebo simulation platform and an exoskeleton named AIDER. Experimental results indicate that the proposed approach is able to provide the ability for exoskeletons to generate appropriate gaits adapt to slopes with different gradients.


Title: Fast Motion Planning for High-DOF Robot Systems Using Hierarchical System Identification
Key Words: actuators  elasticity  human-robot interaction  learning (artificial intelligence)  motion control  path planning  robot dynamics  robot kinematics  reinforcement-learning-based feedback control  underwater swimming robot  line-actuated elastic robot arm  optimization-based motion planning  hierarchical adaptive grid  forward dynamics  articulated robots  soft robots  hierarchical system identification  high-DOF robot systems  fast motion planning  Dynamics  Planning  Heuristic algorithms  Soft robotics  Finite element analysis  Computational modeling 
Abstract: We present an efficient algorithm for motion planning and controlling a robot system with a high number of degrees-of-freedom (DOF). These systems include high-DOF soft robots and articulated robots interacting with a deformable environment. We present a novel technique to accelerate the evaluations of the forward dynamics function by storing the results of costly computations in a hierarchical adaptive grid. Furthermore, we exploit the underactuated properties of the robot systems and build the grid in a low-dimensional space. Our approach approximates the forward dynamics function with guaranteed error bounds and can be used in optimization-based motion planning and reinforcement-learning-based feed-back control. We highlight the performance on two high-DOF robot systems: a line-actuated elastic robot arm and an underwater swimming robot in water. Compared to prior techniques based on exact dynamics evaluation, we observe one to two orders of magnitude improvement in the performance.


Title: Resilient Task Planning and Execution for Reactive Soft Robots
Key Words: control system synthesis  legged locomotion  temporal logic  physical soft robot  reactive soft robots  compliant materials  rigid bodied systems  soft actuator fabrication methods  multigait walking soft robots  soft materials  resilient task planning  reactive controllers  formal synthesis  sensing-based abstraction  linear temporal logic  Actuators  Legged locomotion  Soft robotics  Robot sensing systems  Task analysis 
Abstract: Soft robots utilize compliant materials to perform motions and behaviors not typically achievable by rigid bodied systems. These materials and soft actuator fabrication methods have been leveraged to create multigait walking soft robots. However, soft materials are prone to failure, restricting the ability of soft robots to accomplish tasks. In this work we address the problem of generating reactive controllers for multigait walking soft robots that are resilient to actuator failure by applying methods of formal synthesis. We present a sensing-based abstraction for actuator performance, provide a framework for encoding multigait behavior and actuator failure in Linear Temporal Logic (LTL), and demonstrate synthesized controllers on a physical soft robot.


Title: A-SLAM: Human in-the-loop Augmented SLAM
Key Words: augmented reality  human-robot interaction  mobile robots  navigation  path planning  real-time systems  SLAM (robots)  telerobotics  A-SLAM  map editing  navigation-forbidden areas  navigation goals  SLAM algorithm  occupancy grid maps  human in-the-loop augmented SLAM  real environment representation  Microsoft HoloLens  robot teleoperation  pose correction  map correction  AR interface  Simultaneous localization and mapping  Navigation  Collaboration  Three-dimensional displays  Task analysis 
Abstract: In this work, we are proposing an intuitive Augmented SLAM method (A-SLAM) that allows the user to interact, in real-time, with a robot running SLAM to correct for pose and map errors. We built an AR application that works on HoloLens and allows the operator to view the robot's map superposed on the physical environment and edit it. Through map editing, the operator can account for errors affecting real environment's representation by adding navigation-forbidden areas to the map in addition to the ability to correct errors affecting the localization. The proposed system allows the operator to edit the robot's pose (based on SLAM request) and can be extended to sending navigation goals to the robot, viewing the planned path to evaluate it before execution, and teleoperating the robot. The proposed solution could be applied on any 2D-based SLAM algorithm and can easily be extended to 3D SLAM techniques. We validated our system through experimentation on pose correction and map editing. Experiments demonstrated that through A-SLAM, SLAM runtime is cut to half, post-processing of maps is totally eliminated, and high quality occupancy grid maps could be achieved with minimal added computational and hardware costs.


Title: Efficient Humanoid Contact Planning using Learned Centroidal Dynamics Prediction
Key Words: computational complexity  convex programming  humanoid robots  integer programming  legged locomotion  mobile robots  navigation  path planning  robot dynamics  learned centroidal dynamics prediction  humanoid robots  intermittent contact  contact sequence  quasistatic balance criterion  dynamic motions  efficient mixed integer convex programming solvers  dynamic contact sequences  short time horizon contact sequences  dynamic evolution  robot centroidal momenta  dynamically robust contact sequences  search-based contact planner  humanoid contact planning  Dynamics  Planning  End effectors  Legged locomotion  Humanoid robots  Optimization 
Abstract: Humanoid robots dynamically navigate an environment by interacting with it via contact wrenches exerted at intermittent contact poses. Therefore, it is important to consider dynamics when planning a contact sequence. Traditional contact planning approaches assume a quasi-static balance criterion to reduce the computational challenges of selecting a contact sequence over a rough terrain. This however limits the applicability of the approach when dynamic motions are required, such as when walking down a steep slope or crossing a wide gap. Recent methods overcome this limitation with the help of efficient mixed integer convex programming solvers capable of synthesizing dynamic contact sequences. Nevertheless, its exponential-time complexity limits its applicability to short time horizon contact sequences within small environments. In this paper, we go beyond current approaches by learning a prediction of the dynamic evolution of the robot centroidal momenta, which can then be used for quickly generating dynamically robust contact sequences for robots with arms and legs using a search-based contact planner. We demonstrate the efficiency and quality of the results of the proposed approach in a set of dynamically challenging scenarios.


Title: Flying STAR, a Hybrid Crawling and Flying Sprawl Tuned Robot
Key Words: control engineering computing  helicopters  legged locomotion  mobile robots  path planning  three-dimensional printing  Flying STAR  hybrid crawling  reconfigurable hybrid  quadcopter robot  STAR robots  sprawling mechanism  propellers  FSTAR robot  experimental robot  flying modes  flying sprawl tuned robot  running modes  3D printed prototype  Mobile robots  Wheels  Servomotors  Propellers  Torque  Force  Crawling Robot  Flying Robot  Mechanical Design  Reconfigurable Robot  Sprawl Tuning 
Abstract: This paper presents Flying STAR (FSTAR) a reconfigurable hybrid flying quadcopter robot. FSTAR is the latest in the family of the STAR robots fitted with a sprawling mechanism and propellers allowing it to both run and fly using the same motors. The combined capabilities of running and flying allows FSTAR to fly over obstacles or run underneath them and move inside pipes. The robot can reduce its width to crawl in confined spaces or underneath obstacles while touching the ground. We first describe the design of the robot and the configuration of the wheels and propellers in the flying and running modes. Then we present the 3D printed prototype of the FSTAR robot which we used for our experiments. We evaluate the energy requirements of the robot and the forces it can generate. The experimental robot can fly like an ordinary quadcopter but can also run on the ground at a speed of up to 2.6 m/s to save energy (see video).


Title: Spline Based Curve Path Following of Underactuated Snake Robots
Key Words: biomimetics  interpolation  mobile robots  motion control  path planning  splines (mathematics)  time-varying systems  underactuated snake robots  planar underactuated bio-inspired snake robots  time-varying line-of-sight guidance law  cubic spline interpolation path-planning method  snake robot motion control  8-link custom-built snake robot  spline based curve path following  integral controller  Snake robots  Friction  Turning  Splines (mathematics)  Interpolation  Mathematical model 
Abstract: This paper investigates the curve path following problem for a class of planar underactuated bio-inspired snake robots. The time-varying line-of-sight (LOS) guidance law and the cubic spline interpolation (CSI) path-planning method are employed. Existing studies focus on straight line path following which only gives a solution for snake robot motion control in relatively simple environments. Considering the snake robot's many degrees of freedom and excellent mobility in terrains, we propose a more applicable solution of curve path following for snake robots on the ground. The improved LOS helps the snake robot to steer aggressively at a sharp turning point. Furthermore, to avoid the sideslip of the snake robot caused by the ground friction change, an integral controller is introduced in the design of the heading reference. Simulations and experiments on an 8-link custom-built snake robot are conducted and the results demonstrate and validate the effectiveness of the proposed curve path following algorithm.


Title: Uncertainty-Aware Occupancy Map Prediction Using Generative Networks for Robot Navigation
Key Words: mobile robots  multi-robot systems  neural net architecture  path planning  sensor field of view  sensor FOV  generated hypotheses  information-theoretic exploration strategy  combined map prediction  neural network architecture  custom loss function  deep neural networks  future robot motions  sensor data  occupancy map representations  biological systems  sensor field  future motion  robotic systems  robot navigation  generative networks  uncertainty-aware occupancy map prediction  Neural networks  Robot sensing systems  Training  Measurement  Navigation  Uncertainty 
Abstract: Efficient exploration through unknown environments remains a challenging problem for robotic systems. In these situations, the robot's ability to reason about its future motion is often severely limited by sensor field of view (FOV). By contrast, biological systems routinely make decisions by taking into consideration what might exist beyond their FOV based on prior experience. We present an approach for predicting occupancy map representations of sensor data for future robot motions using deep neural networks. We develop a custom loss function used to make accurate prediction while emphasizing physical boundaries. We further study extensions to our neural network architecture to account for uncertainty and ambiguity inherent in mapping and exploration. Finally, we demonstrate a combined map prediction and information-theoretic exploration strategy using the variance of the generated hypotheses as the heuristic for efficient exploration of unknown environments.


Title: Improved A-search guided tree construction for kinodynamic planning
Key Words: collision avoidance  mobile robots  robot dynamics  robot kinematics  search problems  trees (mathematics)  A-search guided tree  node selection  heuristic cost  computation efficiency  improved AGT  i-AGT  node expansion  prioritizing control actions  prioritizing nodes  bi-directional AGT  BAGT  kinodynamic planning  second tree encodes obstacles information  Robots  Path planning  Aerospace electronics  Complexity theory  Probabilistic logic  Lattices  Planning 
Abstract: With node selection being directed by a heuristic cost [1]-[3], A-search guided tree (AGT) is constructed on-the-fly and enables fast kinodynamic planning. This work presents two variants of AGT to improve computation efficiency. An improved AGT (i-AGT) biases node expansion through prioritizing control actions, an analogy of prioritizing nodes. Focusing on node selection, a bi-directional AGT (BAGT) introduces a second tree originated from the goal in order to offer a better heuristic cost of the first tree. Effectiveness of BAGT pivots on the fact that the second tree encodes obstacles information near the goal. Case study demonstrates that i-AGT consistently reduces the complexity of the tree and improves computation efficiency; and BAGT works largely but not always, particularly with no benefit observed for simple cases.


Title: Balancing Global Exploration and Local-connectivity Exploitation with Rapidly-exploring Random disjointed-Trees
Key Words: Markov processes  path planning  robots  sampling methods  search problems  trees (mathematics)  local-connectivity exploitation  sampling efficiency  sampling-based planners  incremental optimal multiquery planner  RRdT  Markov Chain random sampling  active balancing  sampling-based motion planners  incremental planners  rapidly-exploring random disjointed-trees  Convergence  Space exploration  Probabilistic logic  Planning  Path planning  Proposals  Markov processes 
Abstract: Sampling efficiency in a highly constrained environment has long been a major challenge for sampling-based planners. In this work, we propose Rapidly-exploring Random disjointed-Trees* (RRdT*), an incremental optimal multi-query planner. RRdT* uses multiple disjointed-trees to exploit local-connectivity of spaces via Markov Chain random sampling, which utilises neighbourhood information derived from previous successful and failed samples. To balance local exploitation, RRdT* actively explore unseen global spaces when local-connectivity exploitation is unsuccessful. The active trade-off between local exploitation and global exploration is formulated as a multi-armed bandit problem. We argue that the active balancing of global exploration and local exploitation is the key to improving sample efficient in sampling-based motion planners. We provide rigorous proofs of completeness and optimal convergence for this novel approach. Furthermore, we demonstrate experimentally the effectiveness of RRdT*'s locally exploring trees in granting improved visibility for planning. Consequently, RRdT* outperforms existing state-of-the-art incremental planners, especially in highly constrained environments.


Title: Locomotion Planning through a Hybrid Bayesian Trajectory Optimization
Key Words: Bayes methods  computational complexity  Gaussian processes  humanoid robots  learning (artificial intelligence)  legged locomotion  motion control  nonlinear programming  optimal control  path planning  locomotion planning  legged systems  suitable contact schedules  contact sequence  hybrid dynamical system  achievable motions  optimal control problem  computational complexity  motion optimization  plans contacts  contact schedule selection  high-level task descriptors  motion planning nonlinear program  single-legged hopping  task appropriate contact schedules  hybrid Bayesian trajectory optimization  Bayesian optimization  Gaussian process model  bilevel optimization  Optimization  Schedules  Trajectory  Kernel  Task analysis  Robots 
Abstract: Locomotion planning for legged systems requires reasoning about suitable contact schedules. The contact sequence and timings constitute a hybrid dynamical system and prescribe a subset of achievable motions. State-of-the-art approaches cast motion planning as an optimal control problem. In order to decrease computational complexity, one common strategy separates footstep planning from motion optimization and plans contacts using heuristics. In this paper, we propose to learn contact schedule selection from high-level task descriptors using Bayesian Optimization. A bi-level optimization is defined in which a Gaussian Process model predicts the performance of trajectories generated by a motion planning nonlinear program. The agent, therefore, retains the ability to reason about suitable contact schedules, while explicit computation of the corresponding gradients is avoided. We delineate the algorithm in its general form and provide results for planning single-legged hopping. Our method is capable of learning contact schedule transitions that align with human intuition. It performs competitively against a heuristic baseline in predicting task appropriate contact schedules.


Title: Dynamic Channel: A Planning Framework for Crowd Navigation
Key Words: collision avoidance  graph theory  mobile robots  navigation  pedestrians  search problems  crowd navigation  real-time navigation  robotics  imminent collision avoidance  path planning problem  graph-searching  triangulation space  obstacle dynamics  public pedestrian datasets  dynamic obstacle avoidance  dynamic channels  motion planners  pedestrian dynamics  mobile robot applications  Robots  Collision avoidance  Navigation  Planning  Heuristic algorithms  Trajectory  Logic gates 
Abstract: Real-time navigation in dense human environments is a challenging problem in robotics. Most existing path planners fail to account for the dynamics of pedestrians because introducing time as an additional dimension in search space is computationally prohibitive. Alternatively, most local motion planners only address imminent collision avoidance and fail to offer long-term optimality. In this work, we present an approach, called Dynamic Channels, to solve this global to local quandary. Our method combines the high-level topological path planning with low-level motion planning into a complete pipeline. By formulating the path planning problem as graph-searching in the triangulation space, our planner is able to explicitly reason about the obstacle dynamics and capture the environmental change efficiently. We evaluate efficiency and performance of our approach on public pedestrian datasets and compare it to a state-of-the-art planning algorithm for dynamic obstacle avoidance. Completeness proofs are provided in the supplement at http://caochao.me/files/proof.pdf. An extended version of the paper is available on arXiv.


Title: Composition of Local Potential Functions with Reflection
Key Words: collision avoidance  mobile robots  navigation  local potential functions  reflections  collision capable robot platforms  reflection surfaces  reflection capable omnidirectional robot  cell decompositions  navigation  global convergence  Omnipuck  Robots  Collision avoidance  Convergence  Planning  Navigation  Trajectory  Pins 
Abstract: This paper suggests reflections can be practically useful if they are included in planning for collision capable robot platforms. By modifying a proven strategy for navigation with reflections we maintain global convergence results and reach the goal in less time. An algorithm for identifying reflection surfaces for a given cell decomposition is reported. Baseline and reflected scenarios are compared for two different cell decompositions. Omnipuck, a reflection capable omnidirectional robot meant to store and release impact energy, is used to obtain experimental results and draw conclusions for future work.


Title: Design and Formal Verification of a Safe Stop Supervisor for an Automated Vehicle*
Key Words: Global Positioning System  mobile robots  remotely operated vehicles  road safety  road vehicles  model-based approach  model checking  demonstration vehicle  formal verification  safe stop supervisor  automated vehicle  autonomous vehicles  pertinent planning  control algorithms  mode switch  nominal planners  safe fallback routine  safe position  nominal operational conditions  system failure  mode switching  safe stop trajectory planner  research concept vehicle  Trajectory  Planning  Automation  Global Positioning System  Software  Switches  Roads 
Abstract: Autonomous vehicles apply pertinent planning and control algorithms under different driving conditions. The mode switch between these algorithms should also be autonomous. On top of the nominal planners, a safe fallback routine is needed to stop the vehicle at a safe position if nominal operational conditions are violated, such as for a system failure. This paper describes the design and formal verification of a supervisor to manage all requirements for mode switching between nominal planners, and additional requirements for switching to a safe stop trajectory planner that acts as the fallback routine. The supervisor is designed via a model-based approach and its abstraction is formally verified by model checking. The supervisor is implemented and integrated with the Research Concept Vehicle, an experimental research and demonstration vehicle developed at the KTH Royal Institute of Technology. Simulations and experiments show that the vehicle is able to autonomously drive in a safe manner between two parking lots and can successfully come to a safe stop upon GPS sensor failure.


Title: Optimization-Based Terrain Analysis and Path Planning in Unstructured Environments
Key Words: data structures  graph theory  mobile robots  navigation  optimisation  path planning  position control  remotely operated vehicles  terrain mapping  trees (mathematics)  path planning  environment representation  terrain modeling  graph edge expansions  optimization-based terrain analysis  unmanned ground vehicle  hierarchical model  local terrain map  graph search algorithms  vertex positions  compact data structure  space-dividing tree  environment model  rough environments  real-time optimization-based approach  unstructured environments  autonomous ground vehicle navigation  Optimization  Path planning  Planning  Data structures  Collision avoidance  Navigation  Robots 
Abstract: Accurate environment representation is one of the key challenges in autonomous ground vehicle navigation in unstructured environments. We propose a real-time optimization-based approach to terrain modeling and path planning in off-road and rough environments. Our method uses an irregular, hierarchical, graph-like environment model. A space-dividing tree is used to define a compact data structure capturing vertex positions and establishing connectivity. The same unique underlying data structure is used for both terrain modeling and path planning without memory reallocation. Local plans are generated by graph search algorithms and are continuously regenerated for on-the-fly obstacle avoidance inside the scope of the local terrain map. We show that implementing a hierarchical model over a regular space division reduces graph edge expansions by up to 84%. We illustrate the applicability of the method through experiments with an unmanned ground vehicle in both structured and unstructured environments.


Title: Towards the Design of Robotic Drivers for Full-Scale Self-Driving Racing Cars
Key Words: automobiles  control system synthesis  mobile robots  nonlinear control systems  path planning  predictive control  full-scale self-driving racing cars  autonomous vehicles  planning  control methods  autonomous racing cars  electric full scale autonomous racing car  control system architecture  localization methods  nonlinear model predictive control  pre-planned racing line  robotic driver design  Automobiles  Planning  Real-time systems  Computer architecture  Optimization  Vehicle dynamics 
Abstract: Autonomous vehicles are undergoing a rapid development thanks to advances in perception, planning and control methods and technologies achieved in the last two decades. Moreover, the lowering costs of sensors and computing platforms are attracting industrial entities, empowering the integration and development of innovative solutions for civilian use. Still, the development of autonomous racing cars has been confined mainly to laboratory studies and small to middle scale vehicles. This paper tackles the development of a planning and control framework for an electric full scale autonomous racing car, which is an absolute novelty in the literature, upon which we report our preliminary experiments and perspectives on future work. Our system leverages real time Nonlinear Model Predictive Control to track a pre-planned racing line. We describe the whole control system architecture including the mapping and localization methods employed.


Title: Model-free Online Motion Adaptation for Optimal Range and Endurance of Multicopters
Key Words: adaptive control  aerodynamics  autonomous aerial vehicles  helicopters  motion control  optimal control  path planning  position control  quadcopter  on-board power measurement  power consumption  energy-efficient loitering strategy  model-free online motion adaptation  extremum seeking control  aerodynamic disturbances  Power demand  Aerodynamics  Payloads  Propellers  Robots  Batteries  Adaptation models 
Abstract: In this work we introduce an approach that allows a quadcopter to find the velocity which maximizes its flight time (endurance) or flight distance (range) while moving along a given path, using on-board power measurement. The proposed strategy is based on Extremum Seeking control and (a) does not require any model of the power consumption of the system, (b) can be executed on-line, and (c) guarantees adaptation to unknown disturbances. We show experimentally that hovering is not the most energy-efficient loitering strategy, and we demonstrate the proposed method's ability to adapt to different aerodynamic disturbances, such as payloads. The method may be especially useful in applications where a quadcopter carries an unknown payload, allowing it to adapt for improved range.


Title: Real-time Optimal Planning and Model Predictive Control of a Multi-rotor with a Suspended Load
Key Words: aerospace robotics  collision avoidance  convex programming  helicopters  mobile robots  nonlinear control systems  path planning  predictive control  high-dimensional nonlinear system  differential flatness property  nonconvex constraints  convex optimization problem  optimal trajectory  semifeasible trajectory  model predictive control  suspended load  control algorithms  multirotor dynamics  real-time trajectory generation  collision-free trajectories  collision-free trajectory  dynamic coupling  real-time optimal planning  concave obstacle-avoidance constraints  sequential linear quadratic solver  Trajectory  Real-time systems  Planning  Convex functions  Vehicle dynamics  Nonlinear dynamical systems  Load modeling 
Abstract: This paper presents planning and control algorithms for a multi-rotor with a suspended load. The suspended load cannot be controlled easily by the multi-rotor due to severe dynamic coupling between them. Difficulties are exacerbated by under-actuated, highly nonlinear nature of multi-rotor dynamics. Although many studies have been proposed to plan trajectories and control this system, there exist only a few reports on real-time trajectory generation. With this in mind, we propose a planning method which is capable of generating collision-free trajectories real-time and applicable to a high-dimensional nonlinear system. Using a differential flatness property, the system can be linearized entirely with elaborately chosen flat outputs. Convexification of non-convex constraints is carried out, and concave obstacle-avoidance constraints are converted to convex ones. After that, a convex optimization problem is solved to generate an optimal trajectory, but semi-feasible trajectory which considers only some parts of the initial state. We apply model predictive control with a sequential linear quadratic solver to compute a feasible collision-free trajectory and to control the system. Performance of the algorithm is validated by flight experiment.


Title: Uncertainty-Aware Path Planning for Navigation on Road Networks Using Augmented MDPs
Key Words: decision theory  Markov processes  mobile robots  path planning  probability  state estimation  uncertainty-aware path planning  road networks  augmented MDPs  probabilistic algorithms  state estimation problems  robot  computationally expensive algorithms  uncertainty-augmented Markov Decision Process  planning approach  navigation policies  partially observable Markov decision process  navigation problems  Uncertainty  Roads  Planning  Navigation  Markov processes  Robot sensing systems 
Abstract: Although most robots use probabilistic algorithms to solve state estimation problems, path planning is often performed without considering the uncertainty about the robot's position. Uncertainty, however, matters in planning, but considering it often leads to computationally expensive algorithms. In this paper, we investigate the problem of path planning considering the uncertainty in the robot's belief about the world, in its perceptions and in its action execution. We propose the use of an uncertainty-augmented Markov Decision Process to approximate the underlying Partially Observable Markov Decision Process, and we employ a localization prior to estimate how the belief about the robot's position propagates through the environment. This yields to a planning approach that generates navigation policies able to make decisions according to the degree of uncertainty while being computationally tractable. We implemented our approach and thoroughly evaluated it on different navigation problems. Our experiments suggest that we are able to compute policies that are more effective than approaches that ignore the uncertainty, and that also outperform policies that always take the safest actions.


Title: Real-time Model Based Path Planning for Wheeled Vehicles
Key Words: electric vehicles  image colour analysis  image sensors  mobile robots  path planning  pose estimation  road safety  road vehicles  robot vision  search problems  wheels  model based traversability analysis method  complex environments  vehicles 3D pose  chassis collision  elevation map  reactive planning  safe paths  wheeled mobile robots  real world environment setups  real-time model  real-time path planning  simulated world environment setups  wheeled vehicles  vehicle model  scoring function  A*-like search strategy  RGB-D sensor  frequency 30.0 Hz  Wheels  Path planning  Robot sensing systems  Planning  Mobile robots  Real-time systems 
Abstract: This work presents a model based traversability analysis method which employs a detailed vehicle model to perform real-time path planning in complex environments. The vehicle model represents the vehicle's wheels and chassis, allowing it to accurately predict the vehicles 3D pose, detailed contact information for each wheel and the occurrence of a chassis collision given a 2D pose on an elevation map. These predictions are weighted, depending on the safety requirements of the vehicle, to provide a scoring function for an A*-like search strategy. The proposed method is designed to run at frame rates of 30Hz on data from a RGB-D sensor to provide reactive planning of safe paths. For evaluation, two wheeled mobile robots in different simulated and real world environment setups were tested to show the reliability and performance of the proposed method.


Title: Integrity Risk-Based Model Predictive Control for Mobile Robots
Key Words: mobile robots  path planning  predictive control  risk management  localization sensors  mission-critical situations  local nearest neighbor integrity risk evaluation methodology  data association faults  localization safety  control-input constraints  mobile robots  navigation integrity risk  integrity risk-based model predictive control  MPC  Feature extraction  Safety  Technological innovation  Predictive models  Mobile robots  Navigation 
Abstract: This paper presents a Model Predictive Controller (MPC) that uses navigation integrity risk as a constraint. Navigation integrity risk accounts for the presence of faults in localization sensors and algorithms, an increasingly important consideration as the number of robots operating in life and mission-critical situations is expected to increase dramatically in near future (e.g. a potential influx of self-driving cars). Specifically, the work uses a local nearest neighbor integrity risk evaluation methodology that accounts for data association faults as a constraint in order to guarantee localization safety over a receding horizon. Moreover, state and control-input constraints have also been enforced in this work. The proposed MPC design is tested using real-world mapped environments, showing that a robot is capable of maintaining a predefined minimum level of localization safety while operating in an urban environment.


Title: What lies in the shadows? Safe and computation-aware motion planning for autonomous vehicles using intent-aware dynamic shadow regions
Key Words: inference mechanisms  mobile robots  path planning  road safety  road vehicles  sensor fusion  autonomous driving safety  inference planning  passive safety  sensor observations  intent-aware dynamic shadow regions  computation-aware motion planning  driving behaviour  autonomous vehicle  Robot sensing systems  Planning  Safety  Automobiles  Autonomous vehicles  Trajectory 
Abstract: One of the challenges of developing autonomous vehicles is planning in an inhabited environment under sensing uncertainty as well as limited perception and computational resources. Besides reasoning about the behaviour of traffic participants that are within the vehicles' field of view, safe autonomous driving also requires the vehicle to reason about possible traffic participants that might exist beyond its sensing horizon, and to adapt its driving behaviour accordingly. This paper describes an inference and motion planning pipeline that is able to guarantee passive safety (collisions are possible, but the autonomous vehicle will be at rest) with respect to hypothetical hidden agents that have not been observed yet. We also incorporate the vehicle's reaction time due to sensing and computational delays into the planning process; for example, we show how having a fast reaction time due to the availability of more computational resources leads to more aggressive trajectories, while a car with a larger reaction time will choose more relaxed trajectories that require less attention.


Title: Dynamic Risk Density for Autonomous Navigation in Cluttered Environments without Object Detection
Key Words: collision avoidance  handicapped aids  object detection  path planning  wheelchairs  dynamic risk density  congestion density  cost function  occupancy risk  velocity fields  object-based congestion cost  cluttered environments  autonomous navigation  object detection  object tracking  autonomous wheelchair  Navigation  Cost function  Wheelchairs  Dynamics  Vehicle dynamics  Planning  Level set 
Abstract: In this paper, we examine the problem of navigating cluttered environments without explicit object detection and tracking. We introduce the dynamic risk density to map the congestion density and spatial flow of the environment to a cost function for the agent to determine risk when navigating that environment. We build upon our prior work, wherein the agent maps the density and motion of objects to an occupancy risk, then navigate the environment over a specified risk level set. Here, the agent does not need to identify objects to compute the occupancy risk, and instead computes this cost function using the occupancy density and velocity fields around them. Simulations show how this dynamic risk density encodes movement information for the ego agent and closely models the object-based congestion cost. We implement our dynamic risk density on an autonomous wheelchair and show how it can be used for navigating unstructured, crowded and cluttered environments.


Title: Deep Local Trajectory Replanning and Control for Robot Navigation
Key Words: collision avoidance  control engineering computing  learning (artificial intelligence)  mobile robots  motion control  navigation  velocity control  robot navigation  hierarchical planning  machine learning  optimal paths  deep local trajectory planner  velocity controller  motion commands  attention mechanisms  nearby pedestrians  map global plan information  sensor data  velocity commands  hand-designed traditional navigation system  deep local trajectory replanning  global planner  Navigation  Robot kinematics  Trajectory  Planning  Robot sensing systems  Laser radar 
Abstract: We present a navigation system that combines ideas from hierarchical planning and machine learning. The system uses a traditional global planner to compute optimal paths towards a goal, and a deep local trajectory planner and velocity controller to compute motion commands. The latter components of the system adjust the behavior of the robot through attention mechanisms such that it moves towards the goal, avoids obstacles, and respects the space of nearby pedestrians. Both the structure of the proposed deep models and the use of attention mechanisms make the system's execution interpretable. Our simulation experiments suggest that the proposed architecture outperforms baselines that try to map global plan information and sensor data directly to velocity commands. In comparison to a hand-designed traditional navigation system, the proposed approach showed more consistent performance.


Title: CARA system Architecture - A Click and Assemble Robotic Assembly System
Key Words: CAD  product design  robotic assembly  tolerance analysis  implemented architecture capabilities  CARA system architecture  click and assemble robotic assembly system  industrial product  tolerances  CAD  end to end robotic assembly premise  Robotic assembly  Robot sensing systems  Task analysis  Planning  Solid modeling 
Abstract: Future robotic assembly systems will allow product designers to upload their assembled product models remotely such that they can be assembled autonomously. In this work we present the architecture for a Click and Assemble Robotic Assembly (CARA) system. This architecture takes an assembly file uploaded by the user through a web interface as the only input. It then performs all the necessary planning before executing the assembly. To the authors' knowledge, this is the first time that all of the required components from previous advances in robotic assembly have been brought together, with all interconnecting challenges solved, into a complete working system for physical, real world assembly tasks. To demonstrate the implemented architecture capabilities, a real industrial product with tight tolerances was assembled from its CAD file only, illustrating the end to end robotic assembly premise in a real world setting.


Title: Open-Loop Collective Assembly Using a Light Field to Power and Control a Phototaxic Mini-Robot Swarm
Key Words: artificial life  computational geometry  mobile robots  multi-robot systems  open loop systems  path planning  open-loop collective assembly  collective construction  dynamic light field design strategies  assembled shapes  mobile robots  polygonal shapes  phototaxic minirobot swarm  nonconvex polygons  global light field  Robot kinematics  Shape  Robot sensing systems  Mobile robots  Task analysis  Collision avoidance 
Abstract: We propose a novel scheme that jointly addresses the problems of powering and coordinating a population of mini-robots for collective construction. In our setting, a population of simple mobile robots must push blocks into desired polygonal shapes. Each robot performs only simple phototaxis. Coordination is purely open-loop: a global light field guides and powers the robots. We demonstrate this concept in simulation and explore a series of dynamic light field design strategies that robustly result in assembled shapes including nonconvex polygons.


Title: Graduated Fidelity Lattices for Motion Planning under Uncertainty
Key Words: mobile robots  path planning  probability  robot shape  motion models  graduated fidelity lattices  motion planning  state lattice based approach  mobile robotics  motion uncertainty  multiresolution heuristic  collision probability  Uncertainty  Planning  Robots  Lattices  Collision avoidance  Shape  Probability density function 
Abstract: In this work we present a state lattice based approach for motion planning in mobile robotics. Sensing and motion uncertainty are managed at planning time to obtain safe and optimal paths. To do this reliably, our approach estimates the probability of collision taking into account the robot shape and the uncertainty in heading. We also introduce a novel graduated fidelity approach and a multi-resolution heuristic which adapt to the obstacles in the map, improving the planning efficiency while maintaining its performance. Results for different environments, shapes and motion models are reported, including experiments with real robots.


Title: Non-Parametric Informed Exploration for Sampling-Based Motion Planning
Key Words: collision avoidance  path planning  sampling methods  search problems  effective sampling method  good initial solution  nonparametric exploration technique  nonparametric informed exploration  sampling-based motion planning  search space  Kernel  Planning  Heuristic algorithms  Sampling methods  Convergence  Search problems  Benchmark testing 
Abstract: Efficient exploration of the search space is crucial for faster convergence in sampling-based motion planning. An effective sampling method must first concentrate on quickly finding a good initial solution and then focus the search on regions that can potentially improve the current best solution. In this paper, we propose a non-parametric exploration technique that addresses these challenges. The proposed algorithm prioritizes search by utilizing heuristics. After an initial solution is found, the method generates samples in the “$L_{2} -$informed set”, while leveraging collision data to reduce the number of samples in the obstacle space. We demonstrate the efficiency of the proposed approach with several benchmarking experiments.


Title: Simulated Annealing-optimized Trajectory Planning within Non-Collision Nominal Intervals for Highway Autonomous Driving
Key Words: acceleration control  collision avoidance  mobile robots  predictive control  road traffic control  simulated annealing  time-varying systems  trajectory control  sigmoid trajectory  collision-free intervals  nominal conditions  velocity-space representation  highway autonomous driving  near-optimal trajectory generation  autonomous vehicles  highways  predictive reference trajectory  free evolution space  pre-calculated set  candidate trajectories  decoupling path  velocity optimizations  multicriteria functions  decision evaluation function  trajectory generator  simulated annealing approach  noncollision nominal intervals  simulated annealing-optimized trajectory planning  Trajectory  Roads  Acceleration  Vehicle dynamics  Autonomous vehicles  Decision making 
Abstract: This article considers the problem of near-optimal trajectory generation for autonomous vehicles on highways. The goal is to select a predictive reference trajectory in the free evolution space, while avoiding both generating a pre-calculated set of candidate trajectories and decoupling path and velocity optimizations. Moreover, this trajectory aims at optimizing a decision process based on multi-criteria functions, which are not straightforward to design and can have a blackbox formulation. The main idea of this article is to use the decision evaluation function in the trajectory generator with a Simulated Annealing (SA) approach. The parameters of a sigmoid trajectory are optimized within Non-Collision Nominal Intervals (NCNI), which are defined as collision-free intervals under nominal conditions using a velocity-space representation.


Title: On the Impact of Uncertainty for Path Planning
Key Words: graph theory  learning (artificial intelligence)  mobile robots  navigation  path planning  probability  travelling salesman problems  path planning  planning paths  uncertain edge  learned classifier  mobile robots  partially-known environments  simulation campaign  real-world maps  planning strategy  traversability estimates  Canadian traveller problem  Robot sensing systems  Navigation  Uncertainty  Path planning  Estimation  Optimized production technology 
Abstract: We consider the problem of planning paths on graphs with some edges whose traversability is uncertain; for each uncertain edge, we are given a probability of being traversable (e.g., by a learned classifier). We categorize different interpretations of the problem that are meaningful for mobile robots navigating partially-known environments, each of which yields a different formalization; we then focus on the case in which the true traversability of an edge is revealed only when the agent visits one of its endpoints (Canadian Traveller Problem). In this context, we design a large simulation campaign on synthetic and real-world maps to study the impact of two different factors: the planning strategy, and the amount of uncertainty (which could depend on the quality of the classifier producing traversability estimates).


Title: Accurate and Efficient Self-Localization on Roads using Basic Geometric Primitives
Key Words: automobiles  distance measurement  graph theory  path planning  pose estimation  position control  road traffic control  localization update rate  roads  basic geometric primitives  behavior generation  distinctive signature  map elements  localization framework  next generation series cars  association measurement  odometry measurement  robust pose graph optimization  time 30.0 min  size 10.0 cm  frequency 50.0 Hz  Roads  Automobiles  Frequency modulation  Detectors  Global navigation satellite system  Feature extraction  Optimization 
Abstract: Highly accurate localization with very limited amount of memory and computational power is one of the big challenges for next generation series cars. We propose localization based on geometric primitives which are compact in representation and further valuable for other tasks like planning and behavior generation. The primitives lack distinctive signature which makes association between detections and map elements highly ambiguous. We resolve ambiguities early in the pipeline by online building up a local map which is key to runtime efficiency. Further, we introduce a new framework to fuse association and odometry measurements based on robust pose graph optimization.We evaluate our localization framework on over 30 min of data recorded in urban scenarios. Our map is memory efficient with less than 8 kB/km and we achieve high localization accuracy with a mean position error of less than 10 cm and a mean yaw angle error of less than 0. 25° at a localization update rate of 50Hz.


Title: Beyond Point Clouds: Fisher Information Field for Active Visual Localization
Key Words: mobile robots  path planning  robot vision  point clouds  Fisher information field  active visual localization  mobile robots  perception requirement  planning stage  localization information  perception-aware planning  3D landmarks  sensor visibility  Three-dimensional displays  Planning  Visualization  Cameras  Simultaneous localization and mapping 
Abstract: For mobile robots to localize robustly, actively considering the perception requirement at the planning stage is essential. In this paper, we propose a novel representation for active visual localization. By formulating the Fisher information and sensor visibility carefully, we are able to summarize the localization information into a discrete grid, namely the Fisher information field. The information for arbitrary poses can then be computed from the field in constant time, without the need of costly iterating all the 3D landmarks. Experimental results on simulated and real-world data show the great potential of our method in efficient active localization and perception-aware planning. To benefit related research, we release our implementation of the information field to the public.


Title: Deep Reinforcement Learning of Navigation in a Complex and Crowded Environment with a Limited Field of View
Key Words: cameras  learning (artificial intelligence)  mobile robots  navigation  neural nets  optical radar  path planning  robot vision  deep reinforcement learning-based methods  DRL agents  LSTM agent  Local-Map Critic  LSTM-LMC  wide FOV  single depth camera  mobile robots  lidar devices  DRL method  depth cameras  dynamics randomization technique  Navigation  Mobile robots  Reinforcement learning  Laser radar  Robot sensing systems  Cameras 
Abstract: Mobile robots are required to navigate freely in a complex and crowded environment in order to provide services to humans. For this navigation ability, deep reinforcement learning (DRL)-based methods are gaining increasing attentions. However, existing DRL methods require a wide field of view (FOV), which imposes the usage of high-cost lidar devices. In this paper, we explore the possibility of replacing expensive lidar devices with affordable depth cameras which have a limited FOV. First, we analyze the effect of a limited field of view in the DRL agents. Second, we propose a LSTM agent with Local-Map Critic (LSTM-LMC), which is a novel DRL method to learn efficient navigation in a complex environment with a limited FOV. Lastly, we introduce the dynamics randomization technique to improve the robustness of the DRL agents in the real world. We found that our method with a limited FOV can outperform the methods having a wide FOV but limited memory. We provide the empirical evidence that our method learns to implicitly model the surrounding environment and dynamics of other agents. We also show that a robot with a single depth camera can navigate through a complex real-world environment using our method.


Title: Crowd-Robot Interaction: Crowd-Aware Robot Navigation With Attention-Based Deep Reinforcement Learning
Key Words: human-robot interaction  learning (artificial intelligence)  mobile robots  neural nets  pedestrians  crowded spaces  Human-Human interactions  deep reinforcement learning framework  dense crowds  human dynamics  crowd-aware robot navigation  attention-based deep reinforcement learning  robot operations  crowd-robot interaction  Robots  Navigation  Reinforcement learning  Planning  Task analysis  Human-robot interaction  Biological system modeling 
Abstract: Mobility in an effective and socially-compliant manner is an essential yet challenging task for robots operating in crowded spaces. Recent works have shown the power of deep reinforcement learning techniques to learn socially cooperative policies. However, their cooperation ability deteriorates as the crowd grows since they typically relax the problem as a one-way Human-Robot interaction problem. In this work, we want to go beyond first-order Human-Robot interaction and more explicitly model Crowd-Robot Interaction (CRI). We propose to (i) rethink pairwise interactions with a self-attention mechanism, and (ii) jointly model Human-Robot as well as Human-Human interactions in the deep reinforcement learning framework. Our model captures the Human-Human interactions occurring in dense crowds that indirectly affects the robot's anticipation capability. Our proposed attentive pooling mechanism learns the collective importance of neighboring humans with respect to their future states. Various experiments demonstrate that our model can anticipate human dynamics and navigate in crowds with time efficiency, outperforming state-of-the-art methods.


Title: DoS-Resilient Multi-Robot Temporal Logic Motion Planning
Key Words: convex programming  mobile robots  multi-robot systems  path planning  robot dynamics  robust control  temporal logic  DoS-resilient multirobot temporal logic motion planning  multirobot motion  linear temporal logic specifications  denial-of-service attacks  robot trajectories  DoS attacks  DoS-free workspace  DoS-resilient mission constraints  robot dynamics  DoS-resilient plans  satisfiability modulo convex programming  Base stations  Planning  Trajectory  Robot kinematics  Jamming  Radar 
Abstract: We propose an efficient multi-robot motion planning algorithm for missions captured by linear temporal logic (LTL) specifications, in the presence of bounded disturbances and denial-of-service (DoS) attacks against the communication between robots and base stations. Given an LTL formula Ψ, our goal is to construct robot trajectories, and associated control strategies, to satisfy Ψ and continuously establish communication paths between robots and base stations despite the DoS attacks and the disturbances on the robot states. Our approach combines and extends results from robust control and efficient motion planning via satisfiability modulo convex programming (SMC). We first compute a feedback controller that rejects the disturbance together with a perturbation of the DoS-free workspace that accounts for the worst-case disturbance scenario. On the perturbed workspace, we formulate the planning problem as a feasibility problem over Boolean and convex constraints, respectively capturing the DoS-resilient mission constraints and the constraints on the nominal, disturbance-free, robot dynamics. Numerical results show the effectiveness of our algorithm in providing DoS-resilient plans that are robust to disturbances and support the execution of complex missions.


Title: Efficient Micro Waveguide Coupling based on Microrobotic Positioning
Key Words: fuzzy control  integrated optics  micro-optics  microrobots  optical fibre couplers  optical microscopy  path planning  fuzzy controller  degrees of freedoms  microwaveguide coupling  path planning strategy  integrated optical component  optical fiber  micromanufacture field  traditional manual method  optical microscopy  microrobotic positioning system  light intensity feedback  commercial optoelectronic devices  optical devices  time 40.0 s  Couplings  Optical fibers  Optical fiber sensors  Optical distortion 
Abstract: Coupling the endface of an optical fiber to an integrated optical component is currently a low-throughput and costly manual process in the fabrication of the optical devices. In order to meet the high-volume demand for commercial optoelectronic devices, coupling must be automated. This paper presents a robotic positioning system and corresponding path planning strategy based on both the position and light intensity feedback. In this work, a micro-robotic positioning system with 3 degrees of freedoms (DOFs) is developed and integrated with an optical microscopy. Then the fuzzy controller is developed to design the trajectory. Lastly, simulation and experimental results demonstrate the accuracy and efficiency of the proposed system. Compared with the traditional manual method, the robotic positioning system can realize the coupling within 40 seconds. This method will have a significant impact on the automatic process of the micro manufacture field.


Title: Data Driven Inverse Kinematics of Soft Robots using Local Models
Key Words: computational complexity  data visualisation  learning (artificial intelligence)  mobile robots  path planning  robot kinematics  data driven inverse kinematics  soft robot  computational approaches  data quantity  memory complexity  time complexity  actuation system  visual markers  motion planning  motion control  learning cube environment  Shape  Soft robotics  Sensors  Kinematics  Calibration  Computational modeling 
Abstract: Soft robots are advantageous in terms of flexibility, safety and adaptability. It is challenging to find efficient computational approaches for planning and controlling their motion. This work takes a direct data-driven approach to learn the kinematics of the three-dimensional shape of a soft robot, by using visual markers. No prior information about the robot at hand is required. The model is oblivious to the design of the robot and type of actuation system. This allows adaptation to erroneous manufacturing. We present a highly versatile and inexpensive learning cube environment for collecting and analysing data. We prove that using multiple, lower order models of data opposed to one global, higher order model, will reduce the required data quantity, time complexity and memory complexity significantly without compromising accuracy. Further, our approach allows for embarrassingly parallelism. Yielding an overall much more simple and efficient approach.


Title: ChainQueen: A Real-Time Differentiable Physical Simulator for Soft Robotics
Key Words: deformation  elasticity  gradient methods  inverse problems  least squares approximations  manipulator dynamics  mobile robots  multi-robot systems  optimal control  optimisation  path planning  ChainQueen  real-time differentiable physical simulator  robot planning  gradient-based optimization algorithms  inverse problems  optimal control  motion planning  rigid body simulators  deformable objects  rigid body dynamics  Lagrangian-Eulerian physical simulator  MLS-MPM  soft robotic systems  forward simulation  backward gradient computation  moving least squares material point method  Graphics processing units  Computational modeling  Soft robotics  Three-dimensional displays  Planning  Inverse problems 
Abstract: Physical simulators have been widely used in robot planning and control. Among them, differentiable simulators are particularly favored, as they can be incorporated into gradient-based optimization algorithms that are efficient in solving inverse problems such as optimal control and motion planning. Therefore, rigid body simulators and recently their differentiable variants are studied extensively. Simulating deformable objects is, however, more challenging compared to rigid body dynamics. The underlying physical laws of deformable objects are more complex, and the resulting systems have orders of magnitude more degrees of freedom and there-fore they are significantly more computationally expensive to simulate. Computing gradients with respect to physical design or controller parameters is typically even more computationally challenging. In this paper, we propose a real-time, differentiable hybrid Lagrangian-Eulerian physical simulator for deformable objects, ChainQueen, based on the Moving Least Squares Material Point Method (MLS-MPM). MLS-MPM can simulate deformable objects with collisions and can be seamlessly incorporated into soft robotic systems. We demonstrate that our simulator achieves high precision in both forward simulation and backward gradient computation. We have successfully employed it in a diverse set of inference, control and co-design tasks for soft robotics.


Title: Workspace CPG with Body Pose Control for Stable, Directed Vision during Omnidirectional Locomotion
Key Words: legged locomotion  motion control  path planning  pose estimation  robot vision  vision system  DOF  central pattern generator  degree-of-freedom  gaze orientation  body velocity  path planning  legged robot  omnidirectional locomotion  hexapod robot  CPG framework  body pose control  robot body  Foot  Machine vision  Legged locomotion  Trajectory  Transforms  Phase change materials 
Abstract: In this paper, we focus on the problem of directing the gaze of a vision system mounted to the body of a high-degree-of-freedom (DOF) legged robot for active perception deployments. In particular, we consider the case where the vision system is rigidly attached to the robot's body (i.e., without any additional DOF between the vision system and robot body) and show how the supernumerary DOFs of the robot can be leveraged to allow independent locomotion and gaze control. Specifically, we augment a workspace central pattern generator (CPG) with omnidirectional capabilities by coupling it with a body pose control mechanism. We leverage the smoothing nature of the CPG framework to allow online adaptation of relevant locomotion parameters, and obtain a stable mid-level controller that translates desired gaze orientation and body velocity directly into joint angles. We validate our approach on an 18-DOF hexapod robot, in a series of indoor and outdoor trials, where the robot inspects an environmental feature or follows a pre-planned path relative to a visually-tracked landmark, demonstrating simultaneous locomotion and directed vision.


Title: Control and Configuration Planning of an Aerial Cable Towed System
Key Words: autonomous aerial vehicles  cables (mechanical)  feedback  helicopters  linearisation techniques  manipulator dynamics  manipulator kinematics  manipulators  mobile robots  path planning  robust control  trajectory control  aerial cable towed system  robot configuration  kinematic models  centralized feedback linearization controller  optimal configurations  dynamic trajectories  ACTS  quadrotors manipulating  robustness  Payloads  Kinematics  Vehicle dynamics  Dynamics  Mathematical model  Trajectory  Propulsion  Aerial Systems  Multi-Robot Systems  Quadrotors  Control  Reconfiguration  Cable-Driven Parallel Robots 
Abstract: This paper investigates the effect of the robot configuration on the performance of an aerial cable towed system (ACTS) composed of three quadrotors manipulating a point mass payload. The kinematic and dynamic models of the ACTS are derived in a minimal set of geometric coordinates, and a centralized feedback linearization controller is developed. Independent to the payload trajectory, the configuration of the ACTS is controlled and is evaluated using a robustness index named the capacity margin. Experiments are performed with optimal, suboptimal, and wrench infeasible configurations. It is shown that configurations near the point of zero capacity margin allow the ACTS to hover but not to follow dynamic trajectories, and that the ACTS cannot fly with a negative capacity margin. Dynamic tests of the ACTS show the effects of the configuration on the achievable accelerations.


Title: Optimal Proactive Path Planning for Collaborative Robots in Industrial Contexts
Key Words: collision avoidance  industrial manipulators  mobile robots  motion control  path planning  motion controllers  production plants  optimal proactive path planning  Industry 4.0  ABB YuMi  industrial contexts  collaborative robots  7 degrees robotic arm  human operator  robotic paths  proactive approach  local corrective actions  safe motion planning strategies  Trajectory  Service robots  Probabilistic logic  Computational modeling  Collaboration  Task analysis 
Abstract: The coexistence of humans and robots in the future production plants is one of the pillars of Industry 4.0. Humans and robots will collaborate to accomplish common tasks in order to mutually compensate their deficiencies. In recent years, many efforts have been spent to develop safe motion planning strategies, designed to prevent robots from injuring humans. Most of the previous techniques are classifiable as reactive, since the considered motion controllers impose some local corrective actions in order to dodge the space occupied by the human. In this paper, a proactive approach is adopted, optimizing robotic paths according to a prediction of the volume occupied by the human when collaborating with the robot. The validity of the approach is shown in a realistic use-case involving the collaboration of a human operator with a 7 degrees robotic arm, the ABB YuMi.


Title: 2D LiDAR Map Prediction via Estimating Motion Flow with GRU
Key Words: feature extraction  image sequences  learning (artificial intelligence)  motion estimation  optical radar  radar imaging  recurrent neural nets  LiDAR-FlowNet model  motion flow based method  2D LiDAR map prediction  optical flow  recurrent neural network  motion flow estimation  gated recurrent unit  robotics navigation  path planning  Laser radar  Two dimensional displays  Dynamics  Logic gates  Recurrent neural networks  Training  Robot sensing systems 
Abstract: It is a significant problem to predict the 2D LiDAR map at next moment for robotics navigation and path-planning. To tackle this problem, we resort to the motion flow between adjacent maps, as motion flow is a powerful tool to process and analyze the dynamic data, which is named optical flow in video processing. However, unlike video, which contains abundant visual features in each frame, a 2D LiDAR map lacks distinctive local features. To alleviate this challenge, we propose to estimate the motion flow based on deep neural networks inspired by its powerful representation learning ability in estimating the optical flow of the video. To this end, we design a recurrent neural network based on gated recurrent unit, which is named LiDAR-FlowNet. As a recurrent neural network can encode the temporal dynamic information, our LiDAR-FlowNet can estimate motion flow between the current map and the unknown next map only from the current frame and previous frames. A self-supervised strategy is further designed to train the LiDAR-FlowNet model effectively, while no training data need to be manually annotated. With the estimated motion flow, it is straightforward to predict the 2D LiDAR map at the next moment. Experimental results verify the effectiveness of our LiDAR-FlowNet as well as the proposed training strategy. The results of the predicted LiDAR map also show the advantages of our motion flow based method.


Title: Interaction-aware Multi-agent Tracking and Probabilistic Behavior Prediction via Adversarial Learning
Key Words: decision making  interactive systems  learning (artificial intelligence)  multi-agent systems  neural nets  probability  hyperparameter values  adversarial learning  interaction-aware multiagent tracking  probabilistic behavior prediction  motion planning  intelligent systems  multiple interactive agents  distribution learning  decision making  generative adversarial network  Generators  Gallium nitride  Predictive models  Training  Generative adversarial networks  State estimation  Optimization 
Abstract: In order to enable high-quality decision making and motion planning of intelligent systems such as robotics and autonomous vehicles, accurate probabilistic predictions for surrounding interactive objects is a crucial prerequisite. Although many research studies have been devoted to making predictions on a single entity, it remains an open challenge to forecast future behaviors for multiple interactive agents simultaneously. In this work, we take advantage of the Generative Adversarial Network (GAN) due to its capability of distribution learning and propose a generic multi-agent probabilistic prediction and tracking framework which takes the interactions among multiple entities into account, in which all the entities are treated as a whole. However, since GAN is very hard to train, we make an empirical research and present the relationship between training performance and hyperparameter values with a numerical case study. The results imply that the proposed model can capture both the mean, variance and multi-modalities of the groundtruth distribution. Moreover, we apply the proposed approach to a real-world task of vehicle behavior prediction to demonstrate its effectiveness and accuracy. The results illustrate that the proposed model trained by adversarial learning can achieve a better prediction performance than other state-of-the-art models trained by traditional supervised learning which maximizes the data likelihood. The well-trained model can also be utilized as an implicit proposal distribution for particle filtered based Bayesian state estimation.


Title: A Hierarchical Framework for Coordinating Large-Scale Robot Networks
Key Words: collision avoidance  mobile robots  motion control  multi-robot systems  road traffic control  hierarchical framework  large-scale robot networks  motion coordination problems  multirobot system  robotic warehouses  automated transportation systems  life-long planning problem  coordination performance  robot motion uncertainties  hierarchical path planning  motion coordination structure  traffic heat-map  path planning level  sector-level path  path distance  motion coordination level  collision-free local path  rolling planning manner  traffic condition  robot uncertainty  Robot kinematics  Path planning  Task analysis  Collision avoidance  Planning  Topology 
Abstract: In this paper, we study the cooperative path planning and motion coordination problems of the multi-robot system with large number of robots, aiming for practical applications in robotic warehouses and automated transportation systems. Particularly, we solve the life-long planning problem and guarantee the coordination performance in the presence of robot motion uncertainties. A hierarchical path planning and motion coordination structure is presented. The environment is divided into several sectors and a traffic heat-map is presented to describe the current sector-level traffic condition. In path planning level, the sector-level path is calculated by considering the path distance, the current traffic condition and the current robot uncertainty. In motion coordination level, local cooperative A* algorithm and conflict-based searching strategy are utilized within each sector to generate the collision-free local path of each robot in a rolling planning manner. The effectiveness and practical applicability of the proposed approach are validated by simulations with more than one thousand robots and real experiments.


Title: A Benchmarking Framework for Systematic Evaluation of Robotic Pick-and-Place Systems in an Industrial Grocery Setting
Key Words: end effectors  industrial manipulators  materials handling equipment  path planning  robot vision  benchmarking framework  industrial grocery setting  robotic manipulation  industrial robotic applications  robotic solution  industrial setting  motion planning  pick-and-place operations  pick-and-place task  object placement  end-effectors  robotic pick-and-place systems  Benchmark testing  Task analysis  Service robots  Grasping  Protocols  System performance 
Abstract: Robotic manipulation is a very active field of research nowadays; however, pick-and-place operations constitute the majority of today's industrial robotic applications. In order to adopt a robotic solution for an industrial setting, proper evaluation processes should be defined to assess the system's performance. A number of benchmarks have been proposed in the literature focusing mainly on individual components needed to perform the task, like grasping, perception and motion planning; thus, they do not provide enough information on the performance of the entire robotic system. To address this, we propose a benchmarking framework for a pick-and-place task inspired by a use case for picking fruits and vegetables in an industrial setting. To foster reproducible research and comparison of different robotic systems, the benchmarking framework uses surrogate objects with instructions on how to build them, an easy-to-reproduce environment, and guidelines for object placement. The proposed benchmark is applied to evaluate the performance of two variants of a robotic system with different end-effectors.


Title: Active Multi-Contact Continuous Tactile Exploration with Gaussian Process Differential Entropy
Key Words: end effectors  entropy  Gaussian processes  mobile robots  path planning  tactile sensors  touch (physiological)  active multicontact continuous tactile exploration  Gaussian process differential entropy  active tactile exploration framework  exploration strategy  information theoretic context  nonmyopic multistep planning  end-effectors  tactile stimuli  compliant controller framework  tactile exploration approach  nonconvex objects  Gaussian process implicit surface model  sliding based tactile exploration  End effectors  Surface treatment  Robot sensing systems  Shape  Gaussian processes  Entropy 
Abstract: In the present work, we propose an active tactile exploration framework to obtain a surface model of an unknown object utilizing multiple contacts simultaneously. To incorporate these multiple contacts, the exploration strategy is based on the differential entropy of the underlying Gaussian process implicit surface model, which formalizes the exploration with multiple contacts within an information theoretic context and additionally allows for nonmyopic multi-step planning. In contrast to many previous approaches, the robot continuously slides along the surface with its end-effectors to gather the tactile stimuli, instead of touching it at discrete locations. This is realized by closely integrating the surface model into the compliant controller framework. Furthermore, we extend our recently proposed sliding based tactile exploration approach to handle non-convex objects. In the experiments, it is shown that multiple contacts simultaneously leads to a more efficient exploration of complex, non-convex objects, not only in terms of time, but also with respect to the total moved distance of all end-effectors. Finally, we demonstrate our methodology with a real PR2 robot that explores an object with both of its arms.


Title: Incremental Learning of Spatial-Temporal Features in Human Motion Patterns with Mixture Model for Planning Motion of a Collaborative Robot in Assembly Lines
Key Words: assembling  industrial robots  learning (artificial intelligence)  mobile robots  motion control  product quality  productivity  spatial-temporal features  human motion patterns  collaborative robot  assembly lines  incremental learning system  planning motion  products quality  workers behavior  Task analysis  Hidden Markov models  Mixture models  Predictive models  Data models  Trajectory  Adaptation models 
Abstract: Collaborative robots are expected to work in cooperation with humans to improve productivity and maintain the quality of products. In the previous study, we have proposed an incremental learning system for adaptively scheduling a motion of the collaborative robot based on a worker's behavior. Although this system could model the worker's motion pattern precisely and robustly without collecting the worker's data in advance, it required two different models for modeling the worker's spatial and temporal features respectively and was not well considered for generalization. In this paper, we extend the previous incremental learning system by integrating the spatial and temporal models using a mixture model. In addition, we install a new incremental learning algorithm which improves a generalization capability of the mixture model and avoids overfitting in the situation where the prior information is limited. Implementing the proposed algorithm, we evaluate the effectiveness of the proposed system by experiments for several workers and for several assembly processes.


Title: Learning Quickly to Plan Quickly Using Modular Meta-Learning
Key Words: control engineering computing  learning (artificial intelligence)  manipulators  path planning  multiobject manipulation problems  continuous state  continuous operator parameters  state description  discrete parameters  single specializer  modular meta-learning approach  action spaces  3D pick-and-place tasks  Task analysis  Planning  Robots  Skeleton  Search problems  Companies  Neural networks 
Abstract: Multi-object manipulation problems in continuous state and action spaces can be solved by planners that search over sampled values for the continuous parameters of operators. The efficiency of these planners depends critically on the effectiveness of the samplers used, but effective sampling in turn depends on details of the robot, environment, and task. Our strategy is to learn functions called speciatizers that generate values for continuous operator parameters, given a state description and values for the discrete parameters. Rather than trying to learn a single specializer for each operator from large amounts of data on a single task, we take a modular meta-learning approach. We train on multiple tasks and learn a variety of specializers that, on a new task, can be quickly adapted using relatively little data - thus, our system learns quickly to plan quickly using these specializers. We validate our approach experimentally in simulated 3D pick-and-place tasks with continuous state and action spaces. Visit http://tinyurl.com/chitnis-icra-19 for a supplementary video.


Title: Passive Dynamic Object Locomotion by Rocking and Walking Manipulation
Key Words: end effectors  gait analysis  legged locomotion  manipulator dynamics  manipulator kinematics  motion control  path planning  passive dynamic object locomotion  walking manipulation  zigzag path  kinematics  rocking motion  manipulator arm  robotic manipulation technique  rock-and-walk object transportation technique  simple end-effector  stable gait  rock-walk object locomotion  gravity force  Dynamics  Legged locomotion  Gravity  Manipulator dynamics  Kinematics  Rocks 
Abstract: This paper presents a novel robotic manipulation technique for transporting objects on the ground in a passive dynamic, nonprehensile manner. The object is manipulated to rock from side to side repeatedly; in the meantime, the force of gravity enables the object to roll along a zigzag path that is eventually heading forward. We call it rock-and-walk object locomotion. First, we examine the kinematics and dynamics of the rocking motion to understand how the states of the object evolve. We then discuss how to control the robot to connect individual rocking motions into a stable gait of the object. Our rock-and-walk object transportation technique is implemented using a conventional manipulator arm and a simple end-effector, interacting with the object in a nonprehensile manner in favor of the passive dynamics of the object. A set of experiments demonstrates successful object locomotion.


Title: WISDOM: WIreless Sensing-assisted Distributed Online Mapping
Key Words: least mean squares methods  mobile robots  path planning  pose estimation  robot vision  SLAM (robots)  WISDOM  spatial sensing  robotics  augmented reality  urban spaces  wireless access points  coarse orientation  average Root Mean Square mapping error  wireless sensing-assisted distributed online mapping  robot swarm  custom ICP algorithm  absolute trajectory error  average root mean square mapping error  size 0.2 m  size 1.3 m  Three-dimensional displays  Simultaneous localization and mapping  Robot kinematics  Visualization  Merging 
Abstract: Spatial sensing is a fundamental requirement for applications in robotics and augmented reality. In urban spaces such as malls, airports, apartments, and others, it is quite challenging for a single robot to map the whole environment. So, we employ a swarm of robots to perform the mapping. One challenge with this approach is merging sub-maps built by each robot. In this work, we use wireless access points, which are ubiquitous in most urban spaces, to provide us with coarse orientation between sub-maps, and use a custom ICP algorithm to refine this orientation to merge them. We demonstrate our approach with maps from a building on campus and evaluate it using two metrics. Our results show that, in the building we studied, we can achieve an average Absolute Trajectory error of 0.2m in comparison to a map created by a single robot and average Root Mean Square mapping error of 1.3m from ground truth landmark locations.


Title: UAV/UGV Autonomous Cooperation: UAV assists UGV to climb a cliff by attaching a tether
Key Words: autonomous aerial vehicles  collision avoidance  inertial navigation  mobile robots  off-road vehicles  robot vision  SLAM (robots)  Unmanned Aerial Vehicle  Unmanned Ground Vehicle  tether attachment device  steep terrain  tether anchoring  UGV autonomous cooperation  UAV autonomous cooperation  visual inertial navigation  collaborative navigation  3D voxel mapping  obstacle avoidance planning  traversability analysis  Robot sensing systems  Navigation  Three-dimensional displays  Unmanned aerial vehicles  Trajectory  Attitude control 
Abstract: This paper proposes a novel cooperative system for an Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV) and an Unmanned Ground Vehicle (UGV) which utilizes the UAV not only as a flying sensor but also as a tether attachment device. Two robots are connected with a tether, allowing the UAV to anchor the tether to a structure located at the top of a steep terrain, impossible to reach for UGVs. Thus, enhancing the poor traversability of the UGV by not only providing a wider range of scanning and mapping from the air, but also by allowing the UGV to climb steep terrains with the winding of the tether. In addition, we present an autonomous framework for the collaborative navigation and tether attachment in an unknown environment. The UAV employs visual inertial navigation with 3D voxel mapping and obstacle avoidance planning. The UGV makes use of the voxel map and generates an elevation map to execute path planning based on a traversability analysis. Furthermore, we compared the pros and cons of possible methods for the tether anchoring from multiple points of view. To increase the probability of successful anchoring, we evaluated the anchoring strategy with an experiment. Finally, the feasibility and capability of our proposed system were demonstrated by an autonomous mission experiment in the field with an obstacle and a cliff.


Title: Air-to-Ground Surveillance Using Predictive Pursuit
Key Words: autonomous aerial vehicles  Markov processes  mobile robots  object tracking  path planning  surveillance  target tracking  air-to-ground surveillance  predictive pursuit  Markov decision process  tracking time  location detection accuracy  air-to-ground robot surveillance scenario  surveillance algorithms  camera  unmanned ground vehicle  UGV  observed path  pursuit algorithm  target localization  high predictive accuracy  Planning  Surveillance  Markov processes  Prediction algorithms  Trajectory  Measurement  Drones 
Abstract: This paper introduces a probabilistic prediction model with a novel variant of the Markov decision process to improve tracking time and location detection accuracy in an air-to-ground robot surveillance scenario. While most surveillance algorithms focus mainly on controls of an unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV) and camera for faster tracking of an unmanned ground vehicle (UGV), this paper proposes a way of minimizing detection and tracking time by applying a prediction model to the first observed path taken by the UGV. We present a pursuit algorithm that addresses the problem of target (UGV) localization by combining prediction of used planning algorithm by the target, and application of the same planning algorithm to predict future trajectories. Our results show a high predictive accuracy based on a final position attained by the target and the location predicted by our model.


Title: Online Planning for Target Object Search in Clutter under Partial Observability
Key Words: manipulators  Markov processes  Monte Carlo methods  path planning  PA-POMCP algorithm  action partially observable Monte-Carlo planning  object movements  manipulation actions  partially observable Markov decision process  target object search task  partial observability  online planning  Search problems  Task analysis  Robot sensing systems  Robot kinematics  Uncertainty  Three-dimensional displays 
Abstract: The problem of finding and grasping a target object in a cluttered, uncertain environment, target object search, is a common and important problem in robotics. One key challenge is the uncertainty of locating and recognizing each object in a cluttered environment due to noisy perception and occlusions. Furthermore, the uncertainty in localization makes manipulation difficult and uncertain. To cope with these challenges, we formulate the target object search task as a partially observable Markov decision process (POMDP), enabling the robot to reason about perceptual and manipulation uncertainty while searching. To further address the manipulation difficulty, we propose Parameterized Action Partially Observable Monte-Carlo Planning (PA-POMCP), an algorithm that evaluates manipulation actions by taking into account the effect of the robot's current belief on the success of the action execution. In addition, a novel run-time initial belief generator and a state value estimator are introduced in this paper to facilitate the PA-POMCP algorithm. Our experiments show that our methods solve the target object search task in settings where simpler methods either take more object movements or fail.


Title: Pavilion: Bridging Photo-Realism and Robotics
Key Words: control engineering computing  image sequences  mobile robots  sensor fusion  virtual reality  Pavilion  bridging photo-realism  robotics  sensor fusion  robot control  novel open-source simulation system  robot perception  kinematic control  ROS  shader-based method  optical flow ground-truth data  Gazebo-compatible real-time simulation system  control algorithms  simulation environment  state-of-the-art simulators  simulation accuracy  simulation environments  unreal engine  simulation description format robot models  robot operating system  Engines  Robot sensing systems  Data models  Real-time systems  Pipelines  Optical sensors 
Abstract: Simulation environments play a centric role in the research of sensor fusion and robot control. This paper presents Pavilion, a novel open-source simulation system, for robot perception and kinematic control based on the Unreal Engine and the Robot Operating System (ROS). The novelty of this work includes threefold: (1) developing a shader-based method to generate optical flow ground-truth data with the Unreal Engine, (2) developing a toolset to remove binary incompatibility between ROS and the Unreal Engine to enable real-time interaction, and (3) developing a method to directly import Simulation Description Format (SDF) robot models into the Unreal Engine at runtime. Finally, a Gazebo-compatible real-time simulation system is developed to enable training and evaluation of a large number of sensor fusion, planning, decision and control algorithms. The system can be implemented on both Linux and macOS, with the latest version of ROS. Various experiments have been performed to validate the superior performance of the proposed simulation environment over other state-of-the-art simulators in terms of number of modalities, simulation accuracy, latency and degree of integration difficulty.


Title: Guaranteed Active Constraints Enforcement on Point Cloud-approximated Regions for Surgical Applications
Key Words: end effectors  force control  haptic interfaces  human-robot interaction  manipulator dynamics  medical robotics  mobile robots  path planning  surgery  point cloud-approximated regions  surgical applications  human-robot interaction controller  pHRI  sensitive tissues  restricted region  constraint enforcement  interaction force  constraint satisfaction  KUKA LWR4+ robot  3D point-cloud  artificial potential fields  active constraint enforcement  kinesthetic guidance  KUKA LWR4+ robot end-effector  KUKA virtual slave  Tools  Force  Three-dimensional displays  Surgery  End effectors  Stability analysis 
Abstract: In this work, a passive physical human-robot interaction (pHRI) controller is proposed to intraoperatively ensure that sensitive tissues will not be damaged by the robot's tool. The proposed scheme uses the point cloud of the restricted region's surface as constraint definition and Artificial Potential fields for constraint enforcement. The controller is proven to be passive with respect to the interaction force and to guarantee constraint satisfaction in all cases. The proposed methodology is experimentally validated by the kinesthetic guidance of a KUKA LWR4+ robot's end-effector driving a virtual slave KUKA in the vicinity of a 3D point-cloud of a kidney and its adjacent vessels.


Title: CHiMP: A Contact based Hilbert Map Planner
Key Words: gradient methods  manipulators  mobile robots  path planning  robot vision  stochastic processes  tactile sensors  multimodal robot skin  contact-based robot system  skin compliant control  tactile-based explorative behavior  CHiMP  skin-based sparse contact data  contact-based 3D path planning approach  6 DOF robot arm  stochastic functional gradient path planner  contact based Hilbert map planner  manipulators  Trajectory  Skin  Planning  Kernel  Robot sensing systems  Cost function 
Abstract: This work presents a new contact-based 3D path planning approach for manipulators using robot skin. We make use of the Stochastic Functional Gradient Path Planner, extending it to the 3D case, and assess its usefulness in combination with multi-modal robot skin. Our proposed algorithm is verified on a 6 DOF robot arm that has been covered with multi-modal robot skin. The experimental platform is combined with a skin based compliant controller, making the robot inherently reactive. We implement different state-of-the-art planners within our contact-based robot system to compare their performance under the same conditions. In this way, all the planners use the same skin compliant control during evaluation. Furthermore, we extend the stochastic planner with tactile-based explorative behavior to improve its performance, especially for unknown environments. We show that CHiMP is able to outperform state of the art algorithms when working with skin-based sparse contact data.


Title: Support Surface Estimation for Legged Robots
Key Words: Gaussian processes  legged locomotion  path planning  regression analysis  robot dynamics  terrain mapping  legged robots  legged systems  rugged outdoor environments  terrain geometry  foothold planning  safe locomotion  penetrable terrain  depth sensors  haptic information  foot contact closure locations  exteroceptive sensing  dense support surface estimate  Gaussian process regression  support surface estimation procedure  penetrable surface layer  discrete penetration depth measurements  continuous support surface estimate  partial exteroceptive information  terrain topography  quadrupedal robot ANYmal  Vegetation mapping  Surface topography  Kernel  Estimation  Robot sensing systems 
Abstract: The high agility of legged systems allows them to operate in rugged outdoor environments. In these situations, knowledge about the terrain geometry is key for foothold planning to enable safe locomotion. However, on penetrable or highly compliant terrain (e.g. grass) the visibility of the supporting ground surface is obstructed, i.e. it cannot directly be perceived by depth sensors. We present a method to estimate the underlying terrain topography by fusing haptic information about foot contact closure locations with exteroceptive sensing. To obtain a dense support surface estimate from sparsely sampled footholds we apply Gaussian process regression. Exteroceptive information is integrated into the support surface estimation procedure by estimating the height of the penetrable surface layer from discrete penetration depth measurements at the footholds. The method is designed such that it provides a continuous support surface estimate even if there is only partial exteroceptive information available due to shadowing effects. Field experiments with the quadrupedal robot ANYmal show how the robot can smoothly and safely navigate in dense vegetation.


Title: ALMA - Articulated Locomotion and Manipulation for a Torque-Controllable Robot
Key Words: end effectors  human-robot interaction  legged locomotion  manipulator dynamics  motion control  optimisation  path planning  torque control  unstructured environments  ALMA  torque-controlled quadrupedal robot  dynamic locomotion  online motion planning framework  whole-body controller  hierarchical optimization algorithm  operational space end-effector control  human-robot collaboration  torso posture optimization  torque-controllable robot  robotic mobile manipulation  six degrees of freedom robotic arm  articulated locomotion and manipulation  reactive human-robot collaboration  Legged locomotion  Task analysis  Grippers  Robot kinematics  Tracking  Dynamics 
Abstract: The task of robotic mobile manipulation poses several scientific challenges that need to be addressed to execute complex manipulation tasks in unstructured environments, in which collaboration with humans might be required. Therefore, we present ALMA, a motion planning and control framework for a torque-controlled quadrupedal robot equipped with a six degrees of freedom robotic arm capable of performing dynamic locomotion while executing manipulation tasks. The online motion planning framework, together with a whole-body controller based on a hierarchical optimization algorithm, enables the system to walk, trot and pace while executing operational space end-effector control, reactive human-robot collaboration and torso posture optimization to increase the arm's workspace. The torque control of the whole system enables the implementation of compliant behavior, allowing a user to safely interact with the robot. We verify our framework on the real robot by performing tasks such as opening a door and carrying a payload together with a human.


Title: Liability, Ethics, and Culture-Aware Behavior Specification using Rulebooks
Key Words: automobiles  cultural aspects  ethical aspects  formal specification  intelligent transportation systems  mobile robots  multi-agent systems  culture-aware behavior specification  autonomous agents  self-driving domain  liability-aware behavior specification  ethics-aware behavior specification  self-driving car behavior  Aptiv company  nuTonomy  violation metric  rulebook semantics  Automobiles  Planning  Autonomous automobiles  Ethics  Measurement  Trajectory  Semantics 
Abstract: The behavior of self-driving cars must be compatible with an enormous set of conflicting and ambiguous objectives, from law, from ethics, from the local culture, and so on. This paper describes a new way to conveniently define the desired behavior for autonomous agents, which we use on the self-driving cars developed at nuTonomy, an Aptiv company. We define a “rulebook” as a pre-ordered set of “rules”, each akin to a violation metric on the possible outcomes (“realizations”). The rules are partially ordered by priority. The semantics of a rulebook imposes a pre-order on the set of realizations. We study the compositional properties of the rulebooks, and we derive which operations we can allow on the rulebooks to preserve previously-introduced constraints. While we demonstrate the application of these techniques in the self-driving domain, the methods are domain-independent.


Title: Trajectory Planning for a Tractor with Multiple Trailers in Extremely Narrow Environments: A Unified Approach*
Key Words: agricultural machinery  optimal control  path planning  sampling methods  search problems  vehicle dynamics  trajectory planning  multiple trailers  extremely narrow environments  unified approach  vehicle kinematics  underactuated constraints  nonholonomic constraints  prevalent sampling-based  rigid-body vehicles  tractor-trailer vehicle cases  generic n-trailer cases  tiny environments  adaptively homotopic warm-starting approach  numerical solution process  extremely tiny scenarios  online planning opportunities  Trajectory  Planning  Agricultural machinery  Kinematics  Optimal control  Wheels  Dispersion 
Abstract: Trajectory planning for a tractor-trailer vehicle is challenging because the vehicle kinematics consists of underactuated and nonholonomic constraints that are highly coupled. Prevalent sampling-based or search-based planners suitable for rigid-body vehicles are not capable of handling the tractor-trailer vehicle cases. This work aims to deal with generic n-trailer cases in the tiny environments. To this end, an optimal control problem is formulated, which is beneficial in being accurate, straightforward, and unified. An adaptively homotopic warm-starting approach is proposed to facilitate the numerical solution process of the formulated optimal control problem. Compared with the existing sequential warm starting strategies, our proposal can adaptively define the subproblems with the purpose of making the gaps between adjacent subproblems “pleasant” for the solver. Unification and efficiency of the proposed adaptively homotopic warm-starting approach have been investigated in several extremely tiny scenarios. Our planner finds solutions that other existing planners cannot. Online planning opportunities are briefly discussed as well.


Title: Turning a Corner with a Dubins Car
Key Words: collision avoidance  mobile robots  optimisation  closed-form optimal path  efficient path planner  shortest collision-free Dubins paths  sufficient condition  closed-form solution  interior corner  elementary Dubins paths  RSRSR  RSRSL  LSRSR  LSRSL  Turning  Automobiles  Heuristic algorithms  Planning  Path planning  Approximation algorithms  Terminology 
Abstract: We study the problem of computing shortest collision-free Dubins paths when turning a corner. We present a sufficient condition for a closed-form solution. Specifically, consider S as the set consisting of paths of the form RSRSR, RSRSL, LSRSR and LSRSL that pass through the interior corner, where sub-paths RSR, RSL, and LSR are elementary Dubins paths composed of segments which are either straight (S) or turning left (L) or right (R). We find the closed-form optimal path around a corner when S is nonempty. Our solution can be used in an efficient path planner, for example, when navigating corridors. It can also be used as a subroutine for planners such as RRTs.


Title: Orientation-Aware Motion Planning in Complex Workspaces using Adaptive Harmonic Potential Fields
Key Words: collision avoidance  mobile robots  motion control  orientation-aware motion planning  complex workspaces  adaptive harmonic potential fields  hybrid control scheme  navigation problem  planar robotic platform  approximate configuration space decomposition techniques  appropriate workspace transformations  adaptive potential field based control laws  configuration space representation  obstacle cluttered workspace  Aerospace electronics  Robot kinematics  Harmonic analysis  Navigation  Shape  Approximation algorithms 
Abstract: In this work, a hybrid control scheme is presented in order to address the navigation problem for a planar robotic platform of arbitrary shape that is moving inside an obstacle cluttered workspace. Given an initial and desired robot configuration, we propose a methodology based on approximate configuration space decomposition techniques that makes use of heuristics to adaptively refine a partition of the configuration space into non-overlapping, adjacent slices. Furthermore, we employ appropriate workspace transformations and adaptive potential field based control laws that integrate elegantly with the type of configuration space representation used, in order to safely navigate within a given cell and successfully cross over to the next, for almost all initial configurations, until the desired configuration is reached. Finally, we present simulation results that demonstrate the efficacy of the proposed control scheme.


Title: Energy-Aware Temporal Logic Motion Planning for Mobile Robots
Key Words: computability  mobile robots  path planning  power aware computing  temporal logic  trajectory control  motion planning problem  SMT solving problem  optimal trajectory  energy-aware trajectories  LTL specification  mobile robot  motion plan  battery charge  LTL formula  linear temporal logic  charging station locations  energy-aware temporal logic motion planning  satisfiability modulo theory  Trajectory  Charging stations  Batteries  Planning  Task analysis  Mobile robots 
Abstract: This paper presents a methodology for synthesizing a motion plan for a mobile robot to ensure that the robot never gets depleted with battery charge while carrying out its mission successfully. The specification of the robot is provided in the form of an LTL (Linear Temporal Logic) formula. A trajectory satisfying an LTL formula may contain a loop whose repetitive execution causes the depletion of battery charge in the robot. The motion plan generated by our methodology ensures that the robot visits the charging station periodically in such a way that it never gets depleted with battery charge while carrying out its mission optimally. Given a set of potential charging station locations and an LTL specification, our algorithm also finds the best location for the charging station along with the optimal trajectory for the robot. We encode the motion planning problem as an SMT (Satisfiability Modulo Theory) solving problem and use the off-the-shelf SMT solver Z3 to solve the constraints to find the location of the charging station and generate an optimal trajectory for the robot. We apply our methodology to synthesize energy-aware trajectories for robots with different dynamics in various workspaces and for various LTL specifications.


Title: Using Local Experiences for Global Motion Planning
Key Words: collision avoidance  mobile robots  sampling methods  global motion planning  sampling-based planners  collision-free path  sampling strategy  Databases  Planning  Task analysis  Kinematics  Trajectory  Manipulators 
Abstract: Sampling-based planners are effective in many real-world applications such as robotics manipulation, navigation, and even protein modeling. However, it is often challenging to generate a collision-free path in environments where key areas are hard to sample. In the absence of any prior information, sampling-based planners are forced to explore uniformly or heuristically, which can lead to degraded performance. One way to improve performance is to use prior knowledge of environments to adapt the sampling strategy to the problem at hand. In this work, we decompose the workspace into local primitives, memorizing local experiences by these primitives in the form of local samplers, and store them in a database. We synthesize an efficient global sampler by retrieving local experiences relevant to the given situation. Our method transfers knowledge effectively between diverse environments that share local primitives and speeds up the performance dramatically. Our results show, in terms of solution time, an improvement of multiple orders of magnitude in two traditionally challenging high-dimensional problems compared to state-of-the-art approaches.


Title: DMP Based Trajectory Tracking for a Nonholonomic Mobile Robot With Automatic Goal Adaptation and Obstacle Avoidance
Key Words: collision avoidance  fuzzy logic  gradient methods  learning (artificial intelligence)  Lyapunov methods  manipulator dynamics  mobile robots  motion control  position control  radial basis function networks  stability  steering systems  trajectory control  Dynamic Movement Primitive  motion planning  robot manipulator  nonholonomic mobile robot  Radial Basis Function Networks  robot goal position  Lyapunov stability theory-based analysis  dynamic obstacles  automatic goal adaptation  RBFN  DMP  gradient descent  static obstacles  trajectory tracking  damped spring model  steering angle dynamics  fuzzy logic  Mobile robots  Trajectory  Mathematical model  Robot kinematics  Collision avoidance  Dynamics 
Abstract: Dynamic Movement Primitive (DMP) which is popular for motion planning of a robot manipulator, has been adapted for a nonholonomic mobile robot to track the desired trajectory. DMP is a simple damped spring model with a forcing function, which learns the trajectory. The damped spring model attracts the robot towards the goal position, and the forcing function forces the robot to follow the given trajectory. Two Radial Basis Function Networks (RBFNs) have been used to learn the forcing function associated with the DMP model. Weight update laws are derived using the gradient descent approach to train the RBFNs. Fuzzy logic based steering angle dynamics is proposed to handle the asymmetric nature of an obstacle. The proposed scheme is capable enough to generate a smooth trajectory in the presence of an obstacle even when start and goal positions are altered, without losing the spatial information embedded while training. The convergence of the robot goal position has been shown using Lyapunov stability theory-based analysis. The approach has been extended to multiple static and dynamic obstacles for the successful convergence of the robot at the goal position. Both simulation and experimental results are provided to confirm the efficacy of the proposed scheme.


Title: Kinematic Constraints Based Bi-directional RRT (KB-RRT) with Parameterized Trajectories for Robot Path Planning in Cluttered Environment
Key Words: collision avoidance  mobile robots  path planning  robot dynamics  robot kinematics  Bi-RRT algorithm  parameterized trajectories  robot path planning  complex missions  navigation capability  autonomous mobile robots  robust path planning algorithms  bidirectional-RRT  kinodynamic constraints  bidirectional RRT  trajectory planning  memory utilization  kinematic constraints  KB-RRT algorithm  Kinematics  Trajectory  Mobile robots  Navigation  Planning 
Abstract: Optimal path planning and smooth trajectory planning are critical for effective navigation of mobile robots working towards accomplishing complex missions. For autonomous, real time and extended operations of mobile robots, the navigation capability needs to be executed at the edge. Thus, efficient compute, minimum memory utilization and smooth trajectory are the key parameters that drive the successful operation of autonomous mobile robots. Traditionally, navigation solutions focus on developing robust path planning algorithms which are complex and compute/memory intensive. Bidirectional-RRT(Bi-RRT) based path planning algorithms have gained increased attention due to their effectiveness and computational efficiency in generating feasible paths. However, these algorithms neither optimize memory nor guarantee smooth trajectories. To this end, we propose a kinematically constrained Bi-RRT (KB-RRT) algorithm, which restricts the number of nodes generated without compromising on the accuracy and incorporates kinodynamic constraints for generating smooth trajectories, together resulting in efficient navigation of autonomous mobile robots. The proposed algorithm is tested in a highly cluttered environment on an Ackermannsteering vehicle model with severe kinematic constraints. The experimental results demonstrate that KB-RRT achieves three times (3 X) better performance in terms of convergence rate and memory utilization compared to a standard Bi-RRT algorithm.


Title: Predicting Vehicle Behaviors Over An Extended Horizon Using Behavior Interaction Network
Key Words: recurrent neural nets  road vehicles  traffic engineering computing  recurrent neural network  interaction modeling  vehicle behaviors  autonomous vehicles  behavior detection  long-term future rewards  vehicle behavior interaction network  observation encoding  Planning  Trajectory  Vehicle dynamics  Encoding  Autonomous vehicles  Recurrent neural networks  Prediction methods 
Abstract: Anticipating possible behaviors of traffic participants is an essential capability of autonomous vehicles. Many behavior detection and maneuver recognition methods only have a very limited prediction horizon that leaves inadequate time and space for planning. To avoid unsatisfactory reactive decisions, it is essential to count long-term future rewards in planning, which requires extending the prediction horizon. In this paper, we uncover that clues to vehicle behaviors over an extended horizon can be found in vehicle interaction, which makes it possible to anticipate the likelihood of a certain behavior, even in the absence of any clear maneuver pattern. We adopt a recurrent neural network (RNN) for observation encoding, and based on that, we propose a novel vehicle behavior interaction network (VBIN) to capture the vehicle interaction from the hidden states and connection feature of each interaction pair. The output of our method is a probabilistic likelihood of multiple behavior classes, which matches the multimodal and uncertain nature of the distant future. A systematic comparison of our method against two state-of-the-art methods and another two baseline methods on a publicly available real highway dataset is provided, showing that our method has superior accuracy and advanced capability for interaction modeling.


Title: OVPC Mesh: 3D Free-space Representation for Local Ground Vehicle Navigation
Key Words: computational geometry  mesh generation  mobile robots  navigation  path planning  remotely operated vehicles  robot vision  stereo image processing  OVPC Mesh  3D free-space representation  local ground vehicle navigation  autonomous unmanned ground vehicle  Visible Point Clouds Mesh  local point cloud data  UGV navigation  on visible point clouds mesh  watertight 3D mesh generation  trajectory planning  robot  Three-dimensional displays  Navigation  Robot sensing systems  Planning  Laser radar  Real-time systems 
Abstract: This paper presents a novel approach for local 3D environment representation for autonomous unmanned ground vehicle (UGV) navigation called On Visible Point Clouds Mesh (OVPC Mesh). Our approach represents the surrounding of the robot as a watertight 3D mesh generated from local point cloud data in order to represent the free space surrounding the robot. It is a conservative estimation of the free space and provides a desirable trade-off between representation precision and computational efficiency, without having to discretize the environment into a fixed grid size. Our experiments analyze the usability of the approach for UGV navigation in rough terrain, both in simulation and in a fully integrated real-world system. Additionally, we compare our approach to well-known state-of the-art solutions, such as Octomap and Elevation Mapping and show that OVPC Mesh can provide reliable 3D information for trajectory planning while fulfilling real-time constraints.


Title: Attention-based Lane Change Prediction
Key Words: path planning  recurrent neural nets  road vehicles  traffic engineering computing  function estimation problem  model understandability  lane change prediction model  attention-based recurrent model  prediction quality  attention-based lane change prediction  path planning  driver discomfort  Automobiles  Predictive models  Hidden Markov models  Task analysis  Vehicle dynamics  Bayes methods 
Abstract: Lane change prediction of surrounding vehicles is a key building block of path planning. The focus has been on increasing the accuracy of prediction by posing it purely as a function estimation problem at the cost of model understandability. However, the efficacy of any lane change prediction model can be improved when both corner and failure cases are humanly understandable. We propose an attention-based recurrent model to tackle both understandability and prediction quality. We also propose metrics which reflect the discomfort felt by the driver. We show encouraging results on a publicly available dataset and proprietary fleet data.


Title: A Constraint Programming Approach to Simultaneous Task Allocation and Motion Scheduling for Industrial Dual-Arm Manipulation Tasks
Key Words: constraint handling  industrial manipulators  motion control  optimisation  robot programming  robotic assembly  scheduling  robotic platforms  constraint programming approach  simultaneous task allocation  motion scheduling  industrial dual-arm manipulation tasks  dual-arm robots  industrial manipulation  assembly tasks  robot motion models  constraint optimization problems  makespan-optimized robot programs  industrial workplaces  robot-independent task model  lightweight dual-arm robots  ordered visiting constraint  ordering constraints  Task analysis  Planning  Manipulators  Robot kinematics  Job shop scheduling  Service robots 
Abstract: Modern lightweight dual-arm robots bring the physical capabilities to quickly take over tasks at typical industrial workplaces designed for workers. Low setup times - including the instructing/specifying of new tasks - are crucial to stay competitive. We propose a constraint programming approach to simultaneous task allocation and motion scheduling for such industrial manipulation and assembly tasks. Our approach covers the robot as well as connected machines. The key concept are Ordered Visiting Constraints, a descriptive and extensible model to specify such tasks with their spatiotemporal requirements and combinatorial or ordering constraints. Our solver integrates such task models and robot motion models into constraint optimization problems and solves them efficiently using various heuristics to produce makespan-optimized robot programs. For large manipulation tasks with 200 objects, our solver implemented using Google's Operations Research tools requires less than a minute to compute usable plans. The proposed task model is robot-independent and can easily be deployed to other robotic platforms. This portability is validated through several simulation-based experiments.


Title: Towards 3D Path Planning from a Single 2D Fluoroscopic Image for Robot Assisted Fenestrated Endovascular Aortic Repair
Key Words: blood vessels  computerised tomography  diagnostic radiography  image registration  image segmentation  medical image processing  medical robotics  path planning  phantoms  CT scans  computed tomography  2D intra-operative AAA skeletons  graph matching method  3D preoperative AAA  3D distance error  skeleton length  skeleton deformation  real-time 3D robotic path planning  Abdominal Aortic Aneurysm  skeleton instantiation framework  2D fluoroscopic images  fenestrated endovascular aortic repair  single 2D fluoroscopic image  Three-dimensional displays  Two dimensional displays  Skeleton  Indexes  Robots  Arteries  Path planning 
Abstract: The current standard of intra-operative navigation during Fenestrated Endovascular Aortic Repair (FEVAR) calls for the need of 3D alignments between inserted devices and aortic branches. The navigation commonly via 2D fluoroscopic images, lacks anatomical information, resulting in longer operation hours and radiation exposure. In this paper, a skeleton instantiation framework of Abdominal Aortic Aneurysm (AAA) from a single 2D fluoroscopic image is introduced for real-time 3D robotic path planning. A graph matching method is proposed to establish the correspondences between the 3D preoperative and 2D intra-operative AAA skeletons, and then the two skeletons are registered by skeleton deformation and regularization in respect to skeleton length and smoothness. Furthermore, deep learning was used to segment 3D preoperative AAA from Computed Tomography (CT) scans to facilitate the framework automation. Simulation, phantom and patient AAA data sets have been used to validate the proposed framework. 3D distance error of 2mm was achieved in the phantom setup. Performance advantages were also achieved in terms of accuracy, robustness and time-efficiency.


Title: Tree Search Techniques for Minimizing Detectability and Maximizing Visibility
Key Words: game theory  minimax techniques  Monte Carlo methods  tree searching  trees (mathematics)  tree search techniques  reconnaissance mission  pursuit-evasion problem  finite-horizon path  zero-sum game  game tree search algorithms  minimax search tree  Monte-Carlo search tree  detectability minimization  visibility maximization  visibility-based target search  pruning techniques  Games  Search problems  Planning  Monte Carlo methods  Game theory  Task analysis  Reconnaissance 
Abstract: We introduce and study the problem of planning a trajectory for an agent to carry out a reconnaissance mission while avoiding being detected by an adversarial guard. This introduces a multi-objective version of classical visibility-based target search and pursuit-evasion problem. In our formulation, the agent receives a positive reward for increasing its visibility (by exploring new regions) and a negative penalty every time it is detected by the guard. The objective is to find a finite-horizon path for the agent that balances the trade off between maximizing visibility and minimizing detectability.We model this problem as a discrete, sequential, two-player, zero-sum game. We use two types of game tree search algorithms to solve this problem: minimax search tree and Monte-Carlo search tree. Both search trees can yield the optimal policy but may require possibly exponential computational time and space. We propose several pruning techniques to reduce the computational cost while still preserving optimality guarantees. Simulation results show that the proposed strategy prunes approximately three orders of magnitude nodes as compared to the brute-force strategy. We also find that the Monte-Carlo search tree saves approximately one order of computational time as compared to the minimax search tree.


Title: Chance Constrained Motion Planning for High-Dimensional Robots
Key Words: collision avoidance  mobile robots  optimal control  probability  chance constrained motion planning  high-dimensional robots  Probabilistic Chekov  chance-constrained motion planning system  degree-of-freedom robots  motion uncertainty  state information  observation noise models  deterministic motion planning  integrated trajectory optimization  sparse roadmap framework  planning speed  high-dimensional tasks  linear-quadratic Gaussian motion planning approach  robot state probability distribution  collision risk estimation  robotic planning tasks  p-Chekov system  user-specified chance constraints  real-world planning scenarios  Planning  Robots  Trajectory  Collision avoidance  Task analysis  Estimation  Uncertainty 
Abstract: This paper introduces Probabilistic Chekov (p-Chekov), a chance-constrained motion planning system that can be applied to high degree-of-freedom (DOF) robots under motion uncertainty and imperfect state information. Given process and observation noise models, it can find feasible trajectories which satisfy a user-specified bound over the probability of collision. Leveraging our previous work in deterministic motion planning which integrated trajectory optimization into a sparse roadmap framework, p-Chekov shows superiority in its planning speed for high-dimensional tasks. P-Chekov incorporates a linear-quadratic Gaussian motion planning approach into the estimation of the robot state probability distribution, applies quadrature theories to waypoint collision risk estimation, and adapts risk allocation approaches to assign allowable probabilities of failure among waypoints. Unlike other existing risk-aware planners, p-Chekov can be applied to high-DOF robotic planning tasks without the convexification of the environment. The experiment results in this paper show that this p-Chekov system can effectively reduce collision risk and satisfy user-specified chance constraints in typical real-world planning scenarios for high-DOF robots.


Title: Complete and Near-Optimal Path Planning for Simultaneous Sensor-Based Inspection and Footprint Coverage in Robotic Crack Filling
Key Words: filling  inspection  mobile robots  optimal control  path planning  sensors  surface cracks  near-optimal path planning  robotic crack  simultaneous robotic footprint  range sensors  complete sensor coverage  planning strategy  crack-filling robotic prototype  online planning algorithm  sensor-based inspection  near-optimal footprint coverage  online sensor-based complete coverage planning  online SCC planning  Robot sensing systems  Planning  Inspection  Space exploration  Surface cracks 
Abstract: A simultaneous robotic footprint and sensor coverage planning scheme is proposed to efficiently detect all the unknown targets with range sensors and cover the targets with the robot's footprint in a structured environment. The proposed online Sensor-based Complete Coverage (online SCC) planning minimizes the total traveling distance of the robot, guarantees the complete sensor coverage of the whole free space, and achieves near-optimal footprint coverage of all the targets. The planning strategy is applied to a crack-filling robotic prototype to detect and fill all the unknown cracks on ground surfaces. Simulation and experimental results are presented that confirm the efficiency and effectiveness of the proposed online planning algorithm.


Title: Approximate Stability Analysis for Drystacked Structures
Key Words: building materials  geometry  linear programming  mechanical stability  planning  road building  shrinkage  construction materials  contact geometry  geometric safety factor  automated dry stacking procedure  building elements  structural stability analysis  kern  shrinkage  linear programming  fully simulated shaking test  heuristics-based planning  assembly process  Stability analysis  Force  Friction  Mathematical model  Stacking  Numerical stability  Buildings 
Abstract: We introduce a fast approximate stability analysis into an automated dry stacking procedure. Evaluating structural stability is essential for any type of construction, but especially challenging in techniques where building elements remain distinct and do not use fasteners or adhesives. Due to the irregular shape of construction materials, autonomous agents have restricted knowledge of contact geometry, which makes existing analysis tools difficult to deploy. In this paper, a geometric safety factor called kern is used to estimate how much the contact interface can shrink and the structure still be feasible, where feasibility can be checked efficiently using linear programming. We validate the stability measure by comparing the proposed methods with a fully simulated shaking test in 2D. We also improve existing heuristics-based planning by adding the proposed measure into the assembly process.


Title: Visual Robot Task Planning
Key Words: learning (artificial intelligence)  mobile robots  Monte Carlo methods  neural net architecture  planning (artificial intelligence)  robot vision  tree searching  visual robot task planning  visual information  planning algorithm  neural network architecture  Monte Carlo tree search  block-stacking simulation  Task analysis  Planning  Visualization  Predictive models  Robots  Transforms  Computer architecture 
Abstract: Prospection is key to solving challenging problems in new environments, but it has not been deeply explored as applied to task planning for perception-driven robotics. We propose visual robot task planning, where we take in an input image and must generate a sequence of high-level actions and associated observations that achieve some task. In this paper, we describe a neural network architecture and associated planning algorithm that (1) learns a representation of the world that can generate prospective futures, (2) uses this generative model to simulate the result of sequences of high-level actions in a variety of environments, and (3) evaluates these actions via a variant of Monte Carlo Tree Search to find a viable solution to a particular problem. Our approach allows us to visualize intermediate motion goals and learn to plan complex activity from visual information, and used this to generate and visualize task plans on held-out examples of a block-stacking simulation.


Title: Towards Blended Reactive Planning and Acting using Behavior Trees
Key Words: mobile robots  multi-agent systems  path planning  trees (mathematics)  planning algorithm  dynamic environment  solution blend acting  external disturbances  external agent  behavior trees  robotics scenarios  blended reactive planning  back chaining  Planning  Heuristic algorithms  Task analysis  Service robots  Industries  Robot sensing systems 
Abstract: In this paper, we show how a planning algorithm can be used to automatically create and update a Behavior Tree (BT), controlling a robot in a dynamic environment. The planning part of the algorithm is based on the idea of back chaining. Starting from a goal condition we iteratively select actions to achieve that goal, and if those actions have unmet preconditions, they are extended with actions to achieve them in the same way. The fact that BTs are inherently modular and reactive makes the proposed solution blend acting and planning in a way that enables the robot to effectively react to external disturbances. If an external agent undoes an action the robot reexecutes it without re-planning, and if an external agent helps the robot, it skips the corresponding actions, again without replanning. We illustrate our approach in two different robotics scenarios.


Title: Visual Representations for Semantic Target Driven Navigation
Key Words: image representation  image segmentation  learning (artificial intelligence)  mobile robots  navigation  path planning  robot vision  visual representations  semantic target driven navigation  semantic visual navigation  semantic segmentation  domain adaptation  computer vision algorithms  robot  deep network  navigation policy learning  Navigation  Visualization  Semantics  Training  Adaptation models  Robots  Task analysis 
Abstract: What is a good visual representation for navigation? We study this question in the context of semantic visual navigation, which is the problem of a robot finding its way through a previously unseen environment to a target object, e.g. go to the refrigerator. Instead of acquiring a metric semantic map of an environment and using planning for navigation, our approach learns navigation policies on top of representations that capture spatial layout and semantic contextual cues. We propose to use semantic segmentation and detection masks as observations obtained by state-of-the-art computer vision algorithms and use a deep network to learn the navigation policy. The availability of equitable representations in simulated environments enables joint training using real and simulated data and alleviates the need for domain adaptation or domain randomization commonly used to tackle the sim-to-real transfer of the learned policies. Both the representation and the navigation policy can be readily applied to real non-synthetic environments as demonstrated on the Active Vision Dataset [1]. Our approach successfully gets to the target in 54% of the cases in unexplored environments, compared to 46% for a non-learning based approach, and 28% for a learning-based baseline.


Title: Online Multilayered Motion Planning with Dynamic Constraints for Autonomous Underwater Vehicles
Key Words: autonomous underwater vehicles  collision avoidance  mobile robots  trajectory control  vehicle dynamics  underwater robot  online multilayered motion planning  autonomous underwater vehicles  loosely coupled multilayered planning design  motion planner  hydro-dynamic forces  trajectory planning  robots onboard computer  AUVs  inevitable collision states  Planning  Trajectory  Lead  Vehicle dynamics  Robots  Dynamics  Unmanned underwater vehicles 
Abstract: Underwater robots are subject to complex hydro-dynamic forces. These forces define how the vehicle moves, so it is important to consider them when planning trajectories. However, performing motion planning considering the dynamics on the robot's onboard computer is challenging due to the limited computational resources available. In this paper an efficient motion planning framework for autonomous underwater vehicles (AUVs) is presented. By introducing a loosely coupled multilayered planning design, our framework is able to generate dynamically feasible trajectories while keeping the planning time low enough for online planning. First, a fast path planner operating in a lower-dimensional projected space computes a lead path from the start to the goal configuration. Then, the lead path is used to bias the sampling of a second motion planner, which takes into account all the dynamic constraints. Furthermore, we propose a strategy for online planning that saves computational resources by generating the final trajectory only up to a finite horizon. By using the finite horizon strategy together with the multilayered approach, the sampling of the second planner focuses on regions where good quality solutions are more likely to be found, significantly reducing the planning time. To provide strong safety guarantees our framework also incorporates the conservative approximations of inevitable collision states (icss). finally, we present simulations and experiments using a real underwater robot to demonstrate the capabilities of our framework.


Title: Variational End-to-End Navigation and Localization
Key Words: cameras  Global Positioning System  learning (artificial intelligence)  mobile robots  navigation  path planning  probability  variational techniques  point-topoint navigation algorithms  full-scale autonomous vehicle  localization algorithm  variational end-to-end navigation  deep learning  autonomous vehicle control  raw sensory data  navigation instruction  end-to-end driving networks  point-to-point navigation  probabilistic localization  noisy GPS data  raw camera data  higher level roadmaps  probability distribution  deterministic control command  rough localization  real-world driving data  variational network  Navigation  Roads  Cameras  Robot sensing systems  Visualization  Partitioning algorithms 
Abstract: Deep learning has revolutionized the ability to learn “end-to-end” autonomous vehicle control directly from raw sensory data. While there have been recent extensions to handle forms of navigation instruction, these works are unable to capture the full distribution of possible actions that could be taken and to reason about localization of the robot within the environment. In this paper, we extend end-to-end driving networks with the ability to perform point-to-point navigation as well as probabilistic localization using only noisy GPS data. We define a novel variational network capable of learning from raw camera data of the environment as well as higher level roadmaps to predict (1) a full probability distribution over the possible control commands; and (2) a deterministic control command capable of navigating on the route specified within the map. Additionally, we formulate how our model can be used to localize the robot according to correspondences between the map and the observed visual road topology, inspired by the rough localization that human drivers can perform. We test our algorithms on real-world driving data that the vehicle has never driven through before, and integrate our point-topoint navigation algorithms onboard a full-scale autonomous vehicle for real-time performance. Our localization algorithm is also evaluated over a new set of roads and intersections to demonstrates rough pose localization even in situations without any GPS prior.


Title: Robotic Orientation Control of Deformable Cells
Key Words: biomechanics  cellular biophysics  deformation  manipulators  medical robotics  mobile robots  neurocontrollers  path planning  position control  robotic orientation control  deformable cells  robotic manipulation  deformable objects  rigid objects  robotics  deformable synthetic objects  rubber balls  clothes  biological cells  manual cell rotation control  robotic approach  mathematical modeling  path planning  minimal cell deformation  cell damage  force model  minimal force  contact mechanics model  manipulation path  compensation controller  oocyte orientation control  maximum oocyte deformation  Position control  Strain  Force  Robots  Shape  Path planning  Standards 
Abstract: Robotic manipulation of deformable objects (vs. rigid objects) has been a classic topic in robotics. Compared to deformable synthetic objects such as rubber balls and clothes, biological cells are highly deformable and more prone to damage. This paper presents robotic manipulation of deformable cells for orientation control (both out-of-plane and in-plane), which is required in both clinical (e.g., in vitro fertilization) and biomedical (e.g., clone) applications. Compared to manual cell rotation control based on empirical experience, the robotic approach, based on mathematical modeling and path planning, effectively rotates a cell while consistently maintaining minimal cell deformation to avoid cell damage. A force model is established to determine the minimal force applied by the micropipette to rotate a spherical or more generally, an ellipsoidal mouse oocyte. The force information is translated into indentation through a contact mechanics model, and the manipulation path of the micropipette is formed by connecting the indentation positions on the oocyte. A compensation controller is designed to compensate for the variations of mechanical properties across cells. The polar body of an oocyte is detected by deep neural networks with robustness to shape and size differences. Experimental results demonstrate that the system achieved an accuracy of 97.6% in polar body detection and an accuracy of 0.7° in oocyte orientation control with maximum oocyte deformation of 2.69 μm.


Title: Drift-free Roll and Pitch Estimation for High-acceleration Hopping
Key Words: acceleration control  attitude control  gyroscopes  legged locomotion  motion control  path planning  stability  velocity control  monopedal jumping robots  onboard rate gyroscopes  encoders  attitude estimate disturbances  onboard velocity estimation  extreme stance accelerations  high-acceleration hopping  untethered robot  drift-free roll and pitch estimation  drift-free roll and pitch attitude estimation scheme  fully autonomous stable hopping control  rectangular path  onboard dead-reckoning  human wireless joystick direction  Legged locomotion  Robot sensing systems  Attitude control  Estimation  Gyroscopes 
Abstract: We develop a drift-free roll and pitch attitude estimation scheme for monopedal jumping robots. The estimator uses only onboard rate gyroscopes and encoders and does not rely on external sensing or processing. It is capable of recovering from attitude estimate disturbances and, together with onboard velocity estimation, enables fully autonomous stable hopping control. The estimator performs well on a small untethered robot capable of large jumps and extreme stance accelerations. We demonstrate that the robot can follow a rectangular path using onboard dead-reckoning with less than 2 meters of drift over 200 seconds and 300 jumps covering 60 m. We also demonstrate that the robot can operate untethered outdoors under human wireless joystick direction.


Title: Efficient Symbolic Reactive Synthesis for Finite-Horizon Tasks
Key Words: binary decision diagrams  mobile robots  pick-and-place tasks  binary decision diagram  UR5 robot  efficient symbolic reactive synthesis  compositional approach  explicit state approach  finite-horizon tasks  Task analysis  Robots  Planning  Games  Robotic assembly  Semantics  Binary decision diagrams 
Abstract: When humans and robots perform complex tasks together, the robot must have a strategy to choose its actions based on observed human behavior. One well-studied approach for finding such strategies is reactive synthesis. Existing approaches for finite-horizon tasks have used an explicit state approach, which incurs high runtime. In this work, we present a compositional approach to perform synthesis for finite-horizon tasks based on binary decision diagrams. We show that for pick-and-place tasks, the compositional approach achieves orders-of-magnitude speed-ups compared to previous approaches. We demonstrate the synthesized strategy on a UR5 robot.


Title: Combined Task and Motion Planning under Partial Observability: An Optimization-Based Approach
Key Words: computational complexity  decision trees  mobile robots  optimisation  path planning  partial observability  optimization-based approach  compute optimal plans  symbolic decision tree  path tree  optimal motion  independent optimizations  combined task and motion planning  optimization-based TAMP methods  Trajectory  Planning  Optimization  Observability  Task analysis  Robots  Decision trees 
Abstract: We propose a novel approach to Combined Task and Motion Planning (TAMP) under partial observability. Previous optimization-based TAMP methods [1][2] compute optimal plans and paths assuming full observability. However, partial observability requires the solution to be a policy that reacts to the observations that the agent receives. We consider a formulation where observations introduce additional branching in the symbolic decision tree. The solution is now given by a reactive policy on the symbolic level together with a path tree that describes the branchings of optimal motion depending on the observations. Our method works in two stages: First, the symbolic policy is optimized using approximate path costs estimated from independent optimizations of trajectory pieces. Second, we fix the best symbolic policy and optimize a joint trajectory tree. We test our approach on object manipulation and autonomous driving examples. We also compare the algorithm's performance to a state-of-the-art TAMP planner in fully observable cases.


Title: Towards Robust Product Packing with a Minimalistic End-Effector
Key Words: design engineering  end effectors  mobile robots  object detection  robot vision  warehouse automation  object detection algorithms  manipulation primitives  cubic objects  vacuum-based end-effector  single robot arm  RGB-D data  failure conditions  robust pipeline  unstructured piles  packing tasks  order fulfillment  warehouse automation  hardware designs  sensor technologies  minimalistic end-effector  towards robust product packing  End effectors  Task analysis  Robot sensing systems  Pipelines  Three-dimensional displays  Robot kinematics 
Abstract: Advances in sensor technologies, object detection algorithms, planning frameworks and hardware designs have motivated the deployment of robots in warehouse automation. A variety of such applications, like order fulfillment or packing tasks, require picking objects from unstructured piles and carefully arranging them in bins or containers. Desirable solutions need to be low-cost, easily deployable and controllable, making minimalistic hardware choices desirable. The challenge in designing an effective solution to this problem relates to appropriately integrating multiple components, so as to achieve a robust pipeline that minimizes failure conditions. The current work proposes a complete pipeline for solving such packing tasks, given access only to RGB-D data and a single robot arm with a vacuum-based end-effector, which is also used as a pushing finger. To achieve the desired level of robustness, three key manipulation primitives are identified, which take advantage of the environment and simple operations to successfully pack multiple cubic objects. The overall approach is demonstrated to be robust to execution and perception errors. The impact of each manipulation primitive is evaluated by considering different versions of the proposed pipeline, which incrementally introduce reasoning about object poses and corrective manipulation actions.


Title: Multi-Robot Region-of-Interest Reconstruction with Dec-MCTS
Key Words: manipulators  Monte Carlo methods  multi-robot systems  navigation  path planning  tree searching  motion planning  high-dimensional configuration space  multirobot region-of-interest reconstruction  dec-MCTS  multiple robot arms  RGB-D sensors  precision agriculture  infrastructure inspection  viewpoint evaluation function  nonmyopic planning algorithm  decentralised Monte Carlo tree search  navigation graph  fruit detection  Robot kinematics  Robot sensing systems  Manipulators  Planning  Three-dimensional displays 
Abstract: We consider the problem of reconstructing regions of interest of a scene using multiple robot arms and RGB-D sensors. This problem is motivated by a variety of applications, such as precision agriculture and infrastructure inspection. A viewpoint evaluation function is presented that exploits predicted observations and the geometry of the scene. A recently proposed non-myopic planning algorithm, Decentralised Monte Carlo tree search, is used to coordinate the actions of the robot arms. Motion planning is performed over a navigation graph that considers the high-dimensional configuration space of the robot arms. Extensive simulated experiments are carried out using real sensor data and then validated on hardware with two robot arms. Our proposed targeted information gain planner is compared to state-of-the-art baselines and outperforms them in every measured metric. The robots quickly observe and accurately detect fruit in a trellis structure, demonstrating the viability of the approach for real-world applications.


Title: Search-based 3D Planning and Trajectory Optimization for Safe Micro Aerial Vehicle Flight Under Sensor Visibility Constraints
Key Words: aerospace safety  collision avoidance  graph theory  navigation  search problems  trajectory optimisation (aerospace)  trajectory optimization  sensor visibility constraints  obstacle-free flight paths  Velodyne Puck Lite 3D laser scanner  flight dynamics  navigation safety  allocentric complete planning  microaerial vehicle flight safety  search-based 3D planning  collision avoidance  graph search  Planning  Robot sensing systems  Three-dimensional displays  Trajectory optimization  Vehicle dynamics 
Abstract: Safe navigation of Micro Aerial Vehicles (MAVs) requires not only obstacle-free flight paths according to a static environment map, but also the perception of and reaction to previously unknown and dynamic objects. This implies that the onboard sensors cover the current flight direction. Due to the limited payload of MAVs, full sensor coverage of the environment has to be traded off with flight time. Thus, often only a part of the environment is covered. We present a combined allocentric complete planning and trajectory optimization approach taking these sensor visibility constraints into account. The optimized trajectories yield flight paths within the apex angle of a Velodyne Puck Lite 3D laser scanner enabling low-level collision avoidance to perceive obstacles in the flight direction. Furthermore, the optimized trajectories take the flight dynamics into account and contain the velocities and accelerations along the path. We evaluate our approach with a DJI Matrice 600 MAV and in simulation employing hardware-in-the-loop.


Title: Fast and In Sync: Periodic Swarm Patterns for Quadrotors
Key Words: autonomous aerial vehicles  helicopters  mobile robots  motion control  multi-robot systems  path planning  motion delays  drones  periodic swarm patterns  quadrotor swarm performances  integrated unit  coordinated unit  swarm motion primitives  flexible framework  choreography design  trajectory generation algorithms  periodic motion pattern  Drones  Trajectory  Vehicle dynamics  Surface waves  Planning  Aerodynamics 
Abstract: This paper aims to design quadrotor swarm performances, where the swarm acts as an integrated, coordinated unit embodying moving and deforming objects. We divide the task of creating a choreography into three basic steps: designing swarm motion primitives, transitioning between those movements, and synchronizing the motion of the drones. The result is a flexible framework for designing choreographies comprised of a wide variety of motions. The motion primitives can be intuitively designed using a few parameters, providing a rich library for choreography design. Moreover, we combine and adapt existing goal assignment and trajectory generation algorithms to maximize the smoothness of the transitions between motion primitives. Finally, we propose a correction algorithm to compensate for motion delays and synchronize the motion of the drones to a desired periodic motion pattern. The proposed methodology was validated experimentally by generating and executing choreographies on a swarm of 25 quadrotors.


Title: Networked Operation of a UAV Using Gaussian Process-Based Delay Compensation and Model Predictive Control
Key Words: autonomous aerial vehicles  compensation  control nonlinearities  delays  Gaussian processes  mobile robots  networked control systems  nonlinear control systems  path planning  predictive control  stability  state estimation  state feedback  time-varying systems  Gaussian process-based delay compensation  model predictive control  time-varying network delay  UAV control system  delayed state feedback  multirotor-type UAVs  networked control system  UAV networked operation  path planning  state estimation  Delays  Servers  Uplink  Downlink  Predictive models  Unmanned aerial vehicles  Mathematical model 
Abstract: This study addresses an operation of unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs) in a network environment where there is time-varying network delay. The network delay entails undesirable effects on the stability of the UAV control system due to delayed state feedback and outdated control input. Although several networked control algorithms have been proposed to deal with the network delay, most existing studies have assumed that the plant dynamics is known and simple, or the network delay is constant. These assumptions are improper to multirotor-type UAVs because of their nonlinearity and time-sensitive characteristics. To deal with these problems, we propose a networked control system using model predictive control (MPC) designed under the consideration of multirotor characteristics. We also apply a Gaussian process (GP) to learn an unknown nonlinear model, which increases the accuracy of path planning and state estimation. Flight experiments show that the proposed algorithm successfully compensates the network delay and Gaussian process learning improves the UAV's path tracking performance.


Title: Visual Repetition Sampling for Robot Manipulation Planning
Key Words: collision avoidance  Gaussian processes  image sampling  learning (artificial intelligence)  manipulators  mobile robots  robot vision  trees (mathematics)  Gaussian mixture models  rapidly-exploring random tree  biased sampling methods  real-time applications  longer planning times  optimization-based methods  complex environments  sampling-based motion planners  robot manipulation  visual repetition sampling  RRT motion planner  sampling efficiency  visual input  GMM  Planning  Databases  Task analysis  Visualization  Robots  Probability distribution  Feature extraction 
Abstract: One of the main challenges in sampling-based motion planners is to find an efficient sampling strategy. While methods such as Rapidly-exploring Random Tree (RRT) have shown to be more reliable in complex environments than optimization-based methods, they often require longer planning times, which reduces their usability for real-time applications. Recently, biased sampling methods have shown to remedy this issue. For example Gaussian Mixture Models (GMMs) have been used to sample more efficiently in feasible regions of the configuration space. Once the GMM is learned, however, this approach does not adapt its biases to individual planning scene during inference. Hence, we propose in this work a more efficient sampling strategy to further bias the GMM based on visual input upon query. We employ an autoencoder trained entirely in simulation to extract features from depth images and use the latent representation to adjust the weights of each mixture components in the GMM. We show empirically that this improves the sampling efficiency of an RRT motion planner in both real and simulated scenes.


Title: Improving Underwater Obstacle Detection using Semantic Image Segmentation
Key Words: feature extraction  image classification  image enhancement  image matching  image segmentation  learning (artificial intelligence)  mobile robots  path planning  robot vision  stereo image processing  image-based underwater obstacle detection  sparse stereo point clouds  monocular semantic image segmentation  cluttered underwater environments  robust robotic path planning  feature-based stereo matching  learning-based segmentation  robust obstacle map  direct binary learning  underwater obstacles  multiclass learning approach  binary map  sparse stereo matching  3D obstacle maps  coral reef environments  image-wide obstacle detection  dynamic objects  image-based obstacle maps  Image segmentation  Semantics  Cameras  Three-dimensional displays  Real-time systems  Training  Robots 
Abstract: This paper presents two novel approaches for improving image-based underwater obstacle detection by combining sparse stereo point clouds with monocular semantic image segmentation. Generating accurate image-based obstacle maps in cluttered underwater environments, such as coral reefs, are essential for robust robotic path planning and navigation. However, these maps can be challenged by factors including visibility, lighting and dynamic objects (e.g. fish) that may lead to falsely identified free space or dynamic objects which trajectory planners may react to undesirably. We propose combining feature-based stereo matching with learning-based segmentation to produce a more robust obstacle map. This approach considers direct binary learning of the presence or absence of underwater obstacles, as well as a multiclass learning approach to classify their distance (near, mid and far) in the scene. An enhancement to the binary map is also shown by including depth information from sparse stereo matching to produce 3D obstacle maps of the scene. The performance is evaluated using field data collected in cluttered, and at times, visually degraded coral reef environments. The results show improved image-wide obstacle detection, rejection of transient objects (such as fish), and range estimation compared to feature-based sparse and dense stereo point clouds alone.


Title: Guaranteed Globally Optimal Planar Pose Graph and Landmark SLAM via Sparse-Bounded Sums-of-Squares Programming
Key Words: graph theory  maximum likelihood estimation  mobile robots  navigation  nonlinear programming  path planning  polynomials  pose estimation  robot vision  SLAM (robots)  autonomous navigation  nonlinear optimization techniques  maximum likelihood estimate  robot trajectory  polynomial optimization programs  planar pose graph  landmark SLAM  sparse-bounded sums-of-squares programming  simultaneous localization and mapping  pose-graph SLAM problem  sum-of-squares convex  SOS convex  sparse bounded degree sum-of-squares optimization method  sparse-BSOS optimization method  Simultaneous localization and mapping  Optimization  Maximum likelihood estimation  Position measurement  Noise measurement  Transmission line matrix methods 
Abstract: Autonomous navigation requires an accurate model or map of the environment. While dramatic progress in the prior two decades has enabled large-scale simultaneous localization and mapping (SLAM), the majority of existing methods rely on non-linear optimization techniques to find the maximum likelihood estimate (MLE) of the robot trajectory and surrounding environment. These methods are prone to local minima and are thus sensitive to initialization. Several recent papers have developed optimization algorithms for the Pose-Graph SLAM problem that can certify the optimality of a computed solution. Though this does not guarantee a priori that this approach generates an optimal solution, a recent extension has shown that when the noise lies within a critical threshold that the solution to the optimization algorithm is guaranteed to be optimal. To address the limitations of existing approaches, this paper illustrates that the Pose-Graph SLAM and Landmark SLAM can be formulated as polynomial optimization programs that are sum-of-squares (SOS) convex. This paper then describes how the Pose-Graph and Landmark SLAM problems can be solved to a global minimum without initialization regardless of noise level using the sparse bounded degree sum-of-squares (Sparse-BSOS) optimization method. Finally, the superior performance of the proposed approach when compared to existing SLAM methods is illustrated on graphs with several hundred nodes.


Title: Improving the Performance of Auxiliary Null Space Tasks via Time Scaling-Based Relaxation of the Primary Task
Key Words: path planning  position control  redundant manipulators  auxiliary null space tasks  task achievement  null space task  multiple prioritized tasks  time scaling-based relaxation  primary task  kinematic redundancy  robot manipulators  safety criterion  optimization criterion  constraint relaxation  time scaling schemes  DLR lightweight robot  KUKA lightweight robot  Task analysis  Null space  Robot kinematics  Trajectory  Jacobian matrices  Optimization 
Abstract: Kinematic redundancy enhances the dexterity and flexibility of robot manipulators. By exploiting the redundant degrees of freedom, auxiliary null space tasks can be carried out in addition to the primary task. Such auxiliary tasks are often formulated in terms of a performance or safety criterion that shall be minimized. If the optimization criterion, however, is defined in global terms, then it is directly affected by the primary task. As a consequence, the task achievement of the auxiliary task may be unnecessarily detrimented by the main task. In addition to modifying the primary task via constraint relaxation, a possible solution for improving the performance of the auxiliary task is to relax the primary task temporarily via time scaling. This gives the null space task more time for achieving its objective. In this paper, we propose several such time scaling schemes and verify their performance for a DLR/KUKA Lightweight Robot with one redundant degree of freedom. Finally, we extend the concept to multiple prioritized tasks and provide a simulation example.


Title: Exploitation of Environment Support Contacts for Manipulation Effort Reduction of a Robot Arm
Key Words: compliance control  control system synthesis  end effectors  force control  humanoid robots  manipulator dynamics  manipulator kinematics  mobile robots  motion control  optimal contact force control  support plane  contact control point  three-level hierarchical compliance controller  nonend-effector support contact  wrist level manipulation  upper arm  elbow joint  arm joints  loco-manipulation tasks  environment constraints  robot arm  manipulation effort reduction  environment support contacts  control scheme  interaction forces  impedance control  Task analysis  Robot kinematics  Manipulators  Optimization  Planning  Jacobian matrices 
Abstract: Humans commonly exploit interaction with the environment constraints to assist the execution of the loco-manipulation tasks they perform. One particular example is the exploration of contacts during manipulation to relax the loading of those arm joints that are not directly involved in the generation of the manipulation motions and forces, e.g. establishing a contact with the elbow joint to reduce the effort of the upper arm while executing wrist level manipulation. In this paper, we shall explore the possibility of actively (a) utilizing the environment for a non-end-effector support contact towards reducing the joints efforts during manipulation tasks. This is achieved by our proposed control scheme with a three-level hierarchical compliance controller. The highest priority task is assigned to an impedance control that regulates the interaction at the contact control point on the arm in the normal direction of the support plane prior to contact, and is switched to an optimal contact force control for minimizing the joint effort after the contact is built. The second priority task is an impedance control at the same point in the tangential directions of the plane to stabilize the contact. In the end, an impedance behavior at the end-effector is designed to deal with the interaction forces required by the manipulation tasks. The efficacy of the proposed control scheme was corroborated by simulations and experiments, where significant joint effort reduction was observed.


Title: Hierarchical Game-Theoretic Planning for Autonomous Vehicles
Key Words: decision making  game theory  path planning  remotely operated vehicles  road traffic control  road vehicles  trajectory control  game-theoretic trajectory planning algorithm  trajectory optimization  dynamic games  autonomous driving technology  drivers  dynamic game theory  hierarchical game-theoretic planning  human driver  autonomous vehicle  planning horizon  simplified information structure  short-horizon tactical game  long-horizon strategic game  Vehicle dynamics  Autonomous vehicles  Planning  Games  Trajectory  Computational modeling 
Abstract: The actions of an autonomous vehicle on the road affect and are affected by those of other drivers, whether overtaking, negotiating a merge, or avoiding an accident. This mutual dependence, best captured by dynamic game theory, creates a strong coupling between the vehicle's planning and its predictions of other drivers' behavior, and constitutes an open problem with direct implications on the safety and viability of autonomous driving technology. Unfortunately, dynamic games are too computationally demanding to meet the real-time constraints of autonomous driving in its continuous state and action space. In this paper, we introduce a novel game-theoretic trajectory planning algorithm for autonomous driving, that enables real-time performance by hierarchically decomposing the underlying dynamic game into a long-horizon “strategic” game with simplified dynamics and full information structure, and a short-horizon “tactical” game with full dynamics and a simplified information structure. The value of the strategic game is used to guide the tactical planning, implicitly extending the planning horizon, pushing the local trajectory optimization closer to global solutions, and, most importantly, quantitatively accounting for the autonomous vehicle and the human driver's ability and incentives to influence each other. In addition, our approach admits non-deterministic models of human decision-making, rather than relying on perfectly rational predictions. Our results showcase richer, safer, and more effective autonomous behavior in comparison to existing techniques.


Title: A Flexible Low-Cost Biologically Inspired Sonar Sensor Platform for Robotic Applications
Key Words: bioacoustics  biomimetics  mobile robots  navigation  path planning  sonar  flexible low-cost biologically inspired sonar sensor  robotic applications  biomimetic sonar experiments  autonomous sonar navigation  ultrasound  subsumption architecture  autonomous navigation control system  P3DX robotics platform  big-eared bat  sonar sensor platform  biomimetic control mechanisms  Micronycteris microtis  echolocating animals  Robot sensing systems  Sonar  Microphones  Sonar navigation  Universal Serial Bus  Ultrasonic imaging 
Abstract: In this paper we present a flexible low-cost sonar sensor platform that can be used for a wide range of biomimetic sonar experiments and autonomous sonar navigation targeted at robotics applications. The navigation abilities of bats using ultrasound (sonar) in unknown cluttered environments are very effective and can be distilled into a sensor architecture and accompanying control methodology that lends itself to be implemented on cost efficient hardware. The sensor architecture and processing methodology of this sensing platform mimics that of bats. In this paper we specifically focused on the common big-eared bat (Micronycteris microtis) although this could be transferred to other bat species or even other echolocating animals since the experimental platform was designed for flexibility. Using this platform we were able to implement a control system using a subsumption architecture that features different behavior patterns based solely on the sonar sensor as a source of exteroceptive information. In order to validate the combination of our autonomous navigation control system and our developed sonar sensor platform, the hardware was mounted on the P3DX robotics platform that was introduced in an unknown testing environment and have it drive autonomously. These experiments were used to validate our assumption of the efficacy of these relatively simple biomimetic control mechanisms and thus alleviating the need for expensive sensing platforms for certain robotics applications.


Title: ClusterNav: Learning-Based Robust Navigation Operating in Cluttered Environments
Key Words: assisted living  geriatrics  human-robot interaction  learning (artificial intelligence)  mobile robots  navigation  path planning  robust control  service robots  telerobotics  nonexpert users  ClusterNav  cluttered environments  robust autonomous navigation  social robots  elderly users  traditional model-based navigation techniques  stable theoretical foundation  practical foundation  autonomous operation  domestic environments  acceptable behaviour  novel learning-based technique  geometric representation  acceptable manner  elderly care facility  traditional model-based approach  learning-based robust navigation  Trajectory  Navigation  Robot kinematics  Clustering algorithms  Reinforcement learning 
Abstract: Robust autonomous navigation is one of the most important aspects in the acceptance of social robots by elderly users. Traditional model-based navigation techniques provide a stable theoretical and practical foundation for autonomous operation in domestic environments, but fall short in achieving human-like, acceptable behaviour while still being able to robustly navigate cluttered environments. In this work, we propose ClusterNav, a novel learning-based technique for navigation. Our technique consists of teaching the robot how it should move in the environment in a human-like manner, capturing key features of this demonstration in a geometric representation of the environment. This representation is then used to generate new trajectories for execution, allowing the robot move in an acceptable manner. We have tested our technique in a real environment in an elderly care facility, comparing it with the traditional model-based approach. Tests involved both expert and non-expert users teleoperating the robot. Results show that ClusterNav is capable of navigating the environment, achieving better similarity with the reference trajectories and higher execution speed when compared to the model-based approach.


Title: End to End Learning of a Multi-Layered Snn Based on R-Stdp for a Target Tracking Snake-Like Robot
Key Words: learning (artificial intelligence)  mobile robots  neurocontrollers  path planning  target tracking  multilayered SNN  target tracking snake-like robot  end-to-end learning approach  R-STDP  SNN controller  target tracking tasks  reward-modulated spike-timing-dependent plasticity  multilayered spiking neural network  learning algorithms  lateral tracking  Neurons  Target tracking  Task analysis  Synapses  Robot sensing systems  Training 
Abstract: This paper introduces an end-to-end learning approach based on Reward-modulated Spike-Timing-Dependent Plasticity (R-STDP) for a multi-layered spiking neural network (SNN). As a case study, a snake-like robot is used as an agent to perform target tracking tasks on the basis of our proposed approach. Since the key of R-STDP is to use rewards to modulate synapse strengthens, we first propose a general way to propagate the reward back through a multi-layered SNN. Upon the proposed approach, we build up an SNN controller that drives a snake-like robot for performing target tracking tasks. We demonstrate the practicability and advantage of our approach in terms of lateral tracking accuracy by comparing it to other state-of-the-art learning algorithms for SNNs based on R-STDP.


Title: A Motion Planning Scheme for Cooperative Loading Using Heterogeneous Robotic Agents
Key Words: collision avoidance  mobile robots  motion control  probability  obstacle avoidance  robotic agents  probabilistic road maps technique  cooperative loading task  redundant static manipulator  mobile platform  static obstacles  cluttered workspace  control architecture  decentralized motion planning  motion planning scheme  convergence properties  motion control scheme  optimal loading configuration  Manipulators  Loading  Task analysis  Robot kinematics  Kinematics  Mobile robots 
Abstract: In this work, we present a decentralized motion planning and control architecture for the cooperative loading task using heterogeneous robotic agents operating in a cluttered workspace with static obstacles. Initially, we tackle the problem of calculating a set of feasible loading configurations via a Probabilistic Road Maps technique. Next, an optimal loading configuration is selected considering the connectivity of the space and the Euclidean distance between the robotic agents. A motion control scheme for each agent is designed and implemented in order to autonomously guide each robot to the desired loading configuration with guaranteed obstacle avoidance and convergence properties. The performance and the applicability of the proposed strategy is experimentally verified in a variety of loading scenarios using a redundant static manipulator and a mobile platform.


Title: Spatial Coverage Without Computation
Key Words: mobile robots  multi-robot systems  navigation  path planning  random processes  robot redundancy  optimized random walk  performance improvements  sub-millimeter-sized robots  spatial coverage  anonymous robots  mobile robots  two-dimensional space  extremely simple robots  run-time computation  computer simulations  deterministic controller  off-line optimization  physical e-puck robots  Robot kinematics  Robot sensing systems  Mobile robots  Wheels  Area measurement 
Abstract: We study the problem of controlling a swarm of anonymous, mobile robots to cooperatively cover an unknown two-dimensional space. The novelty of our proposed solution is that it is applicable to extremely simple robots that lack run-time computation or storage. The solution requires only a single bit of information per robot-whether or not another robot is present in its line of sight. Computer simulations show that our deterministic controller, which was obtained through off-line optimization, achieves around 71-76% coverage in a test scenario with no robot redundancy, which corresponds to a 26-39% reduction of the area that is not covered, when compared to an optimized random walk. A moderately lower level of performance was observed in 20 experimental trials with 25 physical e-puck robots. Moreover, we demonstrate that the same controller can be used in environments of different dimensions and even to navigate a maze. The controller provides a baseline against which one can quantify the performance improvements that more advanced and expensive techniques may offer. Moreover, due to its simplicity, it could potentially be implemented on swarms of sub-millimeter-sized robots. This would pave the way for new applications in micro-medicine.


Title: Egocentric Vision-based Future Vehicle Localization for Intelligent Driving Assistance Systems
Key Words: driver information systems  image coding  image sequences  recurrent neural nets  road vehicles  egocentric vision-based future vehicle localization  intelligent driving assistance systems  safety-critical applications  autonomous driving  target vehicles  first-person view  ego-vehicle  multistream recurrent neural network encoder-decoder model  object location  pixel-level observations  future motion  prediction accuracy  intelligent vehicles  automated vehicles  motion planning capability  vehicle trajectories  dense optical flow  Trajectory  Cameras  Optical imaging  Decoding  Videos  Predictive models  Advanced driver assistance systems 
Abstract: Predicting the future location of vehicles is essential for safety-critical applications such as advanced driver assistance systems (ADAS) and autonomous driving. This paper introduces a novel approach to simultaneously predict both the location and scale of target vehicles in the first-person (egocentric) view of an ego-vehicle. We present a multi-stream recurrent neural network (RNN) encoder-decoder model that separately captures both object location and scale and pixel-level observations for future vehicle localization. We show that incorporating dense optical flow improves prediction results significantly since it captures information about motion as well as appearance change. We also find that explicitly modeling future motion of the ego-vehicle improves the prediction accuracy, which could be especially beneficial in intelligent and automated vehicles that have motion planning capability. To evaluate the performance of our approach, we present a new dataset of first-person videos collected from a variety of scenarios at road intersections, which are particularly challenging moments for prediction because vehicle trajectories are diverse and dynamic. Code and dataset have been made available at: https://usa.honda-ri.com/hevi.


Title: Go with the Flow: Exploration and Mapping of Pedestrian Flow Patterns from Partial Observations
Key Words: mobile robots  navigation  path planning  pedestrians  stochastic processes  pedestrian flow patterns  partial observations  safe robot navigation  spatial constraints  temporal constraints  multiple Poisson processes  long-term pedestrian datasets  uninformed exploration strategies  human motion patterns  robot navigation  Robots  Uncertainty  Predictive models  Buildings  Probabilistic logic  Data models  Collision avoidance 
Abstract: Understanding how people are likely to behave in an environment is a key requirement for efficient and safe robot navigation. However, mobile platforms are subject to spatial and temporal constraints, meaning that only partial observations of human activities are typically available to a robot, while the activity patterns of people in a given environment may also change at different times. To address these issues we present as the main contribution an exploration strategy for acquiring models of pedestrian flows, which decides not only the locations to explore but also the times when to explore them. The approach is driven by the uncertainty from multiple Poisson processes built from past observations. The approach is evaluated using two long-term pedestrian datasets, comparing its performance against uninformed exploration strategies. The results show that when using the uncertainty in the exploration policy, model accuracy increases, enabling faster learning of human motion patterns.


Title: Dynamic Modeling and Gait Analysis for Miniature Robots in the Absence of Foot Placement Control
Key Words: gait analysis  humanoid robots  legged locomotion  microrobots  robot dynamics  dynamic modeling  gait analysis  foot placement control  comprehensive dynamic model  miniature foldable robot  gait planning  foot placement  miniature robots  MinIAQ-II robot  Legged locomotion  Foot  Kinematics  Mathematical model  Robot kinematics  Robot sensing systems  Origami-Inspired Robots  Foldable Robots  Miniature Robots  Legged Robots  Gait Analysis  Dynamics 
Abstract: The study of animals and insects have led to realization that animals select their gaits, patterns of leg movement, according to speed. For proper gait planning, the legs must be controlled for proper foot placement with respect to the body motion and ground interactions. However, in small scale robotic platforms gait planning through foot placement control is neither cost effective nor easily attainable due to a lack of available sensors. Thus, even though a desired gait is envisioned at the design phase, it is not known whether the gait is optimum. In this work, we present the comprehensive dynamic model of the miniature foldable robot, MinIAQ-II, which has four independently actuated legs. Dynamic model is used to perform gait analysis, to investigate the difference between the intended gait and the achieved gait in the absence of foot placement control. The model is verified through slow speed walking experiments on flat terrain. The work presented can be modified for different miniature robots with passive legs to predict their locomotion under no foot placement control.


Title: GuSTO: Guaranteed Sequential Trajectory optimization via Sequential Convex Programming
Key Words: convex programming  optimal control  GuSTO  control-affine systems  indirect optimal control  guaranteed sequential trajectory optimization  optimal control setups  SCP-based methods  theoretical convergence  sequential convex programming  algorithmic framework  Trajectory optimization  Convergence  Optimal control  Robots  Heuristic algorithms  Planning 
Abstract: Sequential Convex Programming (SCP) has recently seen a surge of interest as a tool for trajectory optimization. However, most available methods lack rigorous performance guarantees and they are often tailored to specific optimal control setups. In this paper, we present GuSTO (Guaranteed Sequential Trajectory optimization), an algorithmic framework to solve trajectory optimization problems for control-affine systems with drift. GuSTO generalizes earlier SCP-based methods for trajectory optimization (by addressing, for example, goal-set constraints and problems with either fixed or free final time) and enjoys theoretical convergence guarantees in terms of convergence to, at least, a stationary point. The theoretical analysis is further leveraged to devise an accelerated implementation of GuSTO, which originally infuses ideas from indirect optimal control into an SCP context. Numerical experiments on a variety of trajectory optimization setups show that GuSTO generally outperforms current state-of-the-art approaches in terms of success rates, solution quality, and computation times.


Title: Energy Efficient Navigation for Running Legged Robots
Key Words: energy conservation  energy consumption  legged locomotion  motion control  optimisation  path planning  robot dynamics  sampling methods  search problems  trajectory control  mobile robots  energy savings  energy consumption  energy efficient navigation  running legged robots  sampling-based model predictive optimization  LLAMA quadrupedal platform  heuristic-based search  robot dynamics  robot motion plan  trajectory planning  Legged locomotion  Trajectory  Computational modeling  Predictive models  Planning  Heuristic algorithms 
Abstract: Energy-efficient navigation is an important technology for mobile robots because of its potential to increase the operation time of the robot. In particular, when coupled with a dynamic legged quadruped, the need for energy savings is made more apparent as payloads are limited. Due to the complexity in modeling motion and power models of these robots, a new approach is necessary to effectively motion plan for these complex robots. We accomplish this by using Sampling-Based Model Predictive optimization (SBMPO) which was extended for use on the LLAMA quadrupedal platform in simulation. SBMPO allows for direct generation of trajectories while using a heuristic-based search to speed up computations. This approach is shown to effectively motion plan while optimizing for energy consumption and maintaining the natural dynamics of the robot in a simulated environment.


Title: Online Utility-Optimal Trajectory Design for Time-Varying Ocean Environments
Key Words: convex programming  energy consumption  gradient methods  marine engineering  mobile robots  time-varying systems  trajectory control  online utility-optimal trajectory design  time-varying ocean environments  time-varying environments  energy-efficient trajectories  strong disturbances  uncertain disturbances  time-varying goal location  constrained online convex optimization formalism  gradient descent algorithm  vehicle locations  energy consumption  regional ocean modelling system  ocean velocity measurements  Trajectory  Oceans  Planning  Convex functions  Delays  Energy consumption  Optimization 
Abstract: This paper considers the problem of online optimal trajectory design under time-varying environments. Of particular interest is the design of energy-efficient trajectories under strong and uncertain disturbances in ocean environments and time-varying goal location. We formulate the problem within the constrained online convex optimization formalism, and a modified online gradient descent algorithm is motivated. The mobility constraints are met using a carefully chosen stepsize, and the proposed algorithm is shown to incur sublinear regret. Different from the state-of-the-art algorithms that entail planning and re-planning the full trajectory using forecast data at each time instant, the proposed algorithm is entirely online and relies mostly on the current ocean velocity measurements at the vehicle locations. The trade-off between excess delay incurred in reaching the goal and the overall energy consumption is examined via numerical tests carried out on real data obtained from the regional ocean modelling system. As compared to the state-of-the-art algorithms, the proposed algorithm is not only energy-efficient but also several orders of magnitude computationally efficient.


Title: Online Continuous Mapping using Gaussian Process Implicit Surfaces
Key Words: approximation theory  Gaussian processes  mobile robots  path planning  regression analysis  implicit surface  SDF  regressor  gaussian process implicit surface  robotic tasks  signed-distance function  sparse measurements  grid-based methods  online continuous mapping  Surface treatment  Planning  Noise measurement  Training  Robot kinematics  Robot sensing systems 
Abstract: The representation of the environment strongly affects how robots can move and interact with it. This paper presents an online approach for continuous mapping using Gaussian Process Implicit Surfaces (GPISs). Compared with grid-based methods, GPIS better utilizes sparse measurements to represent the world seamlessly. It provides direct access to the signed-distance function (SDF) and its derivatives which are invaluable for other robotic tasks and it incorporates uncertainty in the sensor measurements. Our approach incrementally and efficiently updates GPIS by employing a regressor on observations and a spatial tree structure. The effectiveness of the suggested approach is demonstrated using simulations and real world 2D/3D data.


Title: Predicting the Layout of Partially Observed Rooms from Grid Maps
Key Words: control engineering computing  mobile robots  path planning  robot vision  SLAM (robots)  SLAM algorithms  2D metric grid map  global structure  partially observed rooms  autonomous mobile robots  indoor environments  robot sensors  geometrical primitives  Layout  Measurement  Robots  Indoor environment  Two dimensional displays  Three-dimensional displays  Feature extraction 
Abstract: In several applications, autonomous mobile robots benefit from knowing the structure of the indoor environments where they operate. This knowledge can be extracted from the metric maps built (e.g., using SLAM algorithms) from the data perceived by the robots' sensors. The layout is a way to represent the structure of an indoor environment with geometrical primitives. Most of the current methods for reconstructing the layout from a metric map represent the parts of the environment that have been fully observed. In this paper, we propose an approach that predicts the layout of rooms which are only partially known in a 2D metric grid map. The prediction is made according to the global structure of the environment, as identified from its known parts. Experiments show that our approach is able to effectively predict the layout of several indoor environments that have been observed to different degrees.


Title: Prospection: Interpretable plans from language by predicting the future
Key Words: control engineering computing  learning (artificial intelligence)  natural language processing  robot programming  high-level human instructions  natural-language command  crowd-sourcing  plan fidelity  representations learning  robot agent  Task analysis  Robots  Training  Natural languages  Visualization  Planning  Predictive models 
Abstract: High-level human instructions often correspond to behaviors with multiple implicit steps. In order for robots to be useful in the real world, they must be able to to reason over both motions and intermediate goals implied by human instructions. In this work, we propose a framework for learning representations that convert from a natural-language command to a sequence of intermediate goals for execution on a robot. A key feature of this framework is prospection, training an agent not just to correctly execute the prescribed command, but to predict a horizon of consequences of an action before taking it. We demonstrate the fidelity of plans generated by our framework when interpreting real, crowd-sourced natural language commands for a robot in simulated scenes.


Title: Flight, Camera, Action! Using Natural Language and Mixed Reality to Control a Drone
Key Words: aerospace computing  autonomous aerial vehicles  control engineering computing  human-robot interaction  Markov processes  mobile robots  natural language processing  user interfaces  natural language commands  Markov decision process framework  web interface  MR interface  exploratory user study  fully autonomous language grounding  autonomous drone  natural language grounding  goal-oriented setting  mixed reality  radio-controlled controller  users control  Drones  Natural languages  Virtual reality  Robots  Task analysis  Planning  Grounding 
Abstract: With increasing autonomy, robots like drones are increasingly accessible to untrained users. Most users control drones using a low-level interface, such as a radio-controlled (RC) controller. For a wider adoption of these technologies by the public, a much higher-level interface, such as natural language or mixed reality (MR), allows the automation of the control of the agent in a goal-oriented setting. We present an interface that uses natural language grounding within an MR environment to solve high-level task and navigational instructions given to an autonomous drone. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first work to perform fully autonomous language grounding in an MR setting for a robot. Given a map, our interface first grounds natural language commands to reward specifications within a Markov Decision Process (MDP) framework. Then, it passes the reward specification to an MDP solver. Finally, the drone performs the desired operations in the real world while planning and localizing itself. Our approach uses MR to provide a set of known virtual landmarks, enabling the drone to understand commands referring to objects without being equipped with object detectors for multiple novel objects or a predefined environment model. We conducted an exploratory user study to assess users' experience of our MR interface with and without natural language, as compared to a web interface. We found that users were able to command the drone more quickly via both MR interfaces as compared to the web interface, with roughly equal system usability scores across all three interfaces.


Title: Efficient Generation of Motion Plans from Attribute-Based Natural Language Instructions Using Dynamic Constraint Mapping
Key Words: graph theory  human-robot interaction  learning (artificial intelligence)  mobile robots  motion control  natural language processing  optimisation  path planning  robot programming  dynamic constraint mapping  robot motion planning  dynamic grounding graph  7-DOF Fetch robot  factor graph  optimization-based motion planning  parametric constraints  attribute-based natural language instructions  motion plans  Robots  Grounding  Natural languages  Cost function  Planning  Dynamics  Heuristic algorithms 
Abstract: We present an algorithm for combining natural language processing (NLP) and fast robot motion planning to automatically generate robot movements. Our formulation uses a novel concept called Dynamic Constraint Mapping to transform complex, attribute-based natural language instructions into appropriate cost functions and parametric constraints for optimization-based motion planning. We generate a factor graph from natural language instructions called the Dynamic Grounding Graph (DGG), which takes latent parameters into account. The coefficients of this factor graph are learned based on conditional random fields (CRFs) and are used to dynamically generate the constraints for motion planning. We map the cost function directly to the motion parameters of the planner and compute smooth trajectories in dynamic scenes. We highlight the performance of our approach in a simulated environment and via a human interacting with a 7-DOF Fetch robot using intricate language commands including negation, orientation specification, and distance constraints.


Title: Safe and Fast Path Planning in Cluttered Environment using Contiguous Free-space Partitioning
Key Words: convex programming  graph theory  mobile robots  path planning  random processes  cluttered environment  contiguous free-space partitioning  convex optimization  convex navigable free-spaces  contiguous convex free-spaces  random-walk based seed generation method  contiguous navigable geometry  graph search problem  multiple query planning algorithm  fast path planning  undirected graph  safe path planning  Path planning  Planning  Ellipsoids  Robots  Data structures  Iris 
Abstract: The paper proposes a path planning algorithm for cluttered environment and maze. The proposed planning algorithm exploits the merit of convex optimization while forming the convex navigable free-spaces, ensuring safety of the vehicle. The contiguous convex free-spaces are iteratively computed from a random-walk based seed generation method to create a contiguous navigable geometry. Inside this contiguous navigable geometry an undirected graph is then created, whose each node and edge belong to at least one convex region which boils down the path planning problem into a graph search problem. In addition, the proposed multiple query planning algorithm can merge the user provided feasible initial and goal configuration with the existing undirected graph in each plan, without deteriorating the planning performance in terms of run-time and path length. Simulation and experimental results confirm the superiority of the proposed planning algorithm jointly in terms of both path length and run-time by a significant margin.


Title: Merging Position and orientation Motion Primitives
Key Words: image motion analysis  learning (artificial intelligence)  mobile robots  motion control  path planning  position control  robot programming  stability  orientation motion primitives  complex robotic trajectories  time series  dynamical systems  merging position  stability analysis  merging sequential motion primitives  pose trajectories  Quaternions  Robots  Stability analysis  Trajectory  Task analysis  Acceleration  Clocks 
Abstract: In this paper, we focus on generating complex robotic trajectories by merging sequential motion primitives. A robotic trajectory is a time series of positions and orientations ending at a desired target. Hence, we first discuss the generation of converging pose trajectories via dynamical systems, providing a rigorous stability analysis. Then, we present approaches to merge motion primitives which represent both the position and the orientation part of the motion. Developed approaches preserve the shape of each learned movement and allow for continuous transitions among succeeding motion primitives. Presented methodologies are theoretically described and experimentally evaluated, showing that it is possible to generate a smooth pose trajectory out of multiple motion primitives.


Title: Learning Motion Trajectories from Phase Space Analysis of the Demonstration
Key Words: approximation theory  dexterous manipulators  learning (artificial intelligence)  linear systems  motion control  path planning  regression analysis  trajectory control  closed form solutions  task generalization  phase space analysis  motion trajectories  kinematic based task  dynamic motion  phase space model  sequential trajectory task  energy-based analysis  linear time invariant equations  trajectory segments  linear piece-wise regression method  Trajectory  Mathematical model  Dynamics  Task analysis  Motion segmentation  Adaptation models  Space exploration 
Abstract: A major goal of learning from demonstration is task generalization via observation of a teacher. In this paper, we propose a novel framework for learning motion from a single demonstration. Our approach reconstructs the demonstrated trajectory's phase space curve via a linear piece-wise regression method. We approximate dynamics of trajectory segments with linear time invariant equations, each yielding closed form solutions. We show convergence to desired phase space states via an energy-based analysis. The robustness of the model is evaluated on a robot for a sequential trajectory task. Additionally, we show the advantages that the phase space model has over the dynamic motion primitive for a kinematic based task.


Title: Bonnet: An Open-Source Training and Deployment Framework for Semantic Segmentation in Robotics using CNNs
Key Words: computer vision  control engineering computing  convolutional neural nets  image segmentation  learning (artificial intelligence)  public domain software  robot vision  deployment interface  existing robotics codebase  label prediction  open-source training  CNNs  semantic segmentation labels each pixel  class label  convolutional neural networks  high-quality open-source frameworks  neural network implementation  semantic segmentation task  modular approach  robotic platform  CNN approach  robotics research  open-source codebase  semantic segmentation CNN  semantic annotation  Bonnet framework  Python  TensorFlow  C++ library  Semantics  Training  C++ languages  Tools  Robot sensing systems  Hardware 
Abstract: The ability to interpret a scene is an important capability for a robot that is supposed to interact with its environment. The knowledge of what is in front of the robot is, for example, relevant for navigation, manipulation, or planning. Semantic segmentation labels each pixel of an image with a class label and thus provides a detailed semantic annotation of the surroundings to the robot. Convolutional neural networks (CNNs) are popular methods for addressing this type of problem. The available software for training and the integration of CNNs for real robots, however, is quite fragmented and often difficult to use for non-experts, despite the availability of several high-quality open-source frameworks for neural network implementation and training. In this paper, we propose a tool called Bonnet, which addresses this fragmentation problem by building a higher abstraction that is specific for the semantic segmentation task. It provides a modular approach to simplify the training of a semantic segmentation CNN independently of the used dataset and the intended task. Furthermore, we also address the deployment on a real robotic platform. Thus, we do not propose a new CNN approach in this paper. Instead, we provide a stable and easy-to-use tool to make this technology more approachable in the context of autonomous systems. In this sense, we aim at closing a gap between computer vision research and its use in robotics research. We provide an open-source codebase for training and deployment. The training interface is implemented in Python using TensorFlow and the deployment interface provides C++ library that can be easily integrated in an existing robotics codebase, a ROS node, and two standalone applications for label prediction in images and videos.


Title: MRS-VPR: a multi-resolution sampling based global visual place recognition method
Key Words: image filtering  image matching  image recognition  image resolution  image sampling  image sequences  mobile robots  navigation  object recognition  particle filtering (numerical methods)  path planning  robot vision  SLAM (robots)  global visual place recognition method  multiresolution sampling  particle filter-based global sampling scheme  matching efficiency  brute-force sequential matching method  long-term localization  long-term visual navigation tasks  loop closure detection  MRS-VPR  SeqSLAM  Testing  Feature extraction  Indexes  Task analysis  Trajectory  Visualization  Robots 
Abstract: Place recognition and loop closure detection are challenging for long-term visual navigation tasks. SeqSLAM is considered to be one of the most successful approaches to achieve long-term localization under varying environmental conditions and changing viewpoints. SeqSLAM uses a brute-force sequential matching method, which is computationally intensive. In this work, we introduce a multi-resolution sampling-based global visual place recognition method (MRS-VPR), which can significantly improve the matching efficiency and accuracy in sequential matching. The novelty of this method lies in the coarse-to-fine searching pipeline and a particle filter-based global sampling scheme, that can balance the matching efficiency and accuracy in the long-term navigation task. Moreover, our model works much better than SeqSLAM when the testing sequence is over a much smaller time scale than the reference sequence. Our experiments demonstrate that MRSVPR is efficient in locating short temporary trajectories within long-term reference ones without compromising on the accuracy compared to SeqSLAM.


Title: iX-BSP: Belief Space Planning through Incremental Expectation
Key Words: computational complexity  mobile robots  path planning  statistical analysis  robotics replanning  statistical simulation  incremental expectation calculations  planning session  computational complexity  belief space planning  iX-BSP  Planning  Current measurement  Robots  Uncertainty  History  Time measurement  Linear programming 
Abstract: Belief space planning (BSP) is a fundamental problem in robotics. Determining an optimal action quickly grows intractable as it involves calculating the expected accumulated cost (reward), where the expectation accounts for all future measurement realizations. State of the art approaches therefore resort to simplifying assumptions and approximations to reduce computational complexity. Importantly, while in robotics re-planning is essential, these approaches calculate each planning session from scratch. In this work we contribute a novel approach, iX-BSP, that is based on the key insight that calculations in consecutive planning sessions are similar in nature and can be thus re-used. Our approach performs incremental calculation of the expectation by appropriately re-using computations already performed in a precursory planing session while accounting for the information obtained in inference between the two planning sessions. The formulation of our approach considers general distributions and accounts for data association aspects. We evaluate iX-BSP in statistical simulation and show that incremental expectation calculations significantly reduce runtime without impacting performance.


Title: Multi-Object Search using Object-Oriented POMDPs
Key Words: Markov processes  mobile robots  Monte Carlo methods  path planning  object-oriented POMDPs  OO-POMDP  observable Markov decision process  object-oriented partially observable Monte-Carlo planning  multiobject search task  sequential decision making  mobile robot  Task analysis  Uncertainty  Search problems  Robot sensing systems  Planning  Object oriented modeling 
Abstract: A core capability of robots is to reason about multiple objects under uncertainty. Partially Observable Markov Decision Processes (POMDPs) provide a means of reasoning under uncertainty for sequential decision making, but are computationally intractable in large domains. In this paper, we propose Object-Oriented POMDPs (OO-POMDPs), which represent the state and observation spaces in terms of classes and objects. The structure afforded by OO-POMDPs support a factorization of the agent's belief into independent object distributions, which enables the size of the belief to scale linearly versus exponentially in the number of objects. We formulate a novel Multi-Object Search (MOS) task as an OO-POMDP for mobile robotics domains in which the agent must find the locations of multiple objects. Our solution exploits the structure of OO-POMDPs by featuring human language to selectively update the belief at task onset. Using this structure, we develop a new algorithm for efficiently solving OO-POMDPs: Object-Oriented Partially Observable Monte-Carlo Planning (OOPOMCP). We show that OO-POMCP with grounded language commands is sufficient for solving challenging MOS tasks both in simulation and on a physical mobile robot.


Title: Safely Probabilistically Complete Real-Time Planning and Exploration in Unknown Environments
Key Words: approximation theory  collision avoidance  mobile robots  predictive control  probability  reachability analysis  robot dynamics  robust control  safe backward reachable set  real-time simulation  safely probabilistically complete real-time planning  motion planning  kinodynamic planners  a priori unknown  static environments  collision avoidance  robust controller  reachability analysis  motion plans  robot operating system software environment  Planning  Trajectory  Safety  Computational modeling  Real-time systems  Vehicle dynamics  Probabilistic logic 
Abstract: We present a new framework for motion planning that wraps around existing kinodynamic planners and guarantees recursive feasibility when operating in a priori unknown, static environments. Our approach makes strong guarantees about overall safety and collision avoidance by utilizing a robust controller derived from reachability analysis. We ensure that motion plans never exit the safe backward reachable set of the initial state, while safely exploring the space. This preserves the safety of the initial state, and guarantees that that we will eventually find the goal if it is possible to do so while exploring safely. We implement our framework in the Robot Operating System (ROS) software environment and demonstrate it in a real-time simulation.


Title: Nonlinear Tire Cornering Stiffness Observer for a Double Steering Off-Road Mobile Robot
Key Words: linear quadratic control  mobile robots  nonlinear control systems  observers  off-road vehicles  path planning  predictive control  steering systems  tyres  vehicle dynamics  open environments  rear contact cornering stiffnesses  soil proprieties  steering angles  LQR controller  nonlinear tire cornering stiffness observer  double steering off-road mobile robot  path tracking controllers  autonomous vehicle  dynamic model  wheel-ground contact  Kalman-Bucy observer  ground parameter estimation  Observers  Tires  Mobile robots  Vehicle dynamics  Wheels  Nonlinear optics 
Abstract: Path tracking controllers for an autonomous vehicle are often designed by using either a dynamic model or a kinematic one and some models are related to wheel-ground contact, that makes the efficiency of the controller highly dependent on the ground parameters estimation, especially for off-road mobile robots intended to navigate in open environments. This paper proposes a new nonlinear observer designed to estimate the front and rear contact cornering stiffnesses in real time, that are related both on tire and soil proprieties. The latter is estimated using steering angles as well as yaw rate and lateral velocity, which are provided by a preliminary Kalman-Bucy observer. The performance of the proposed nonlinear observer combined with the LQR controller is evaluated by both advanced simulations and experiments in real conditions at different speeds.


Title: Coverage Path Planning in Belief Space
Key Words: C++ language  collision avoidance  control engineering computing  lawnmowers  mobile robots  navigation  operating systems (computers)  robot programming  coverage path planning  belief space  robotic lawn mowers  safety-critical tasks  robot safety  cheap range sensors  low range sensors  uncertainty-aware coverage path  lawn mower  safe navigation  collision avoidance  C++ language  ROS  Robot sensing systems  Planning  Path planning  Uncertainty  Collision avoidance 
Abstract: For safety reasons, robotic lawn mowers and similar devices are required to stay within a predefined working area. Keeping the robot within its workspace is typically achieved by special safeguards such as a wire installed in the ground. In the case of robotic lawn mowers, this causes a certain customer reluctance. It is more desirable to fulfill those safety-critical tasks by safe navigation and path planning. In this paper, we tackle the problem of planning a coverage path composed of parallel lanes that maximizes robot safety under the constraints of cheap, low range sensors and thus substantial uncertainty in the robot's belief and ability to execute actions. Our approach uses a map of the environment to estimate localizability at all locations, and it uses these estimates to search for an uncertainty-aware coverage path while avoiding collisions. We implemented our approach using C++ and ROS and thoroughly tested it on real garden data. The experiment shows that our approach leads to safer meander patterns for the lawn mower and takes expected localizability information into account.


Title: Planning Coordinated Event Observation for Structured Narratives
Key Words: finite automata  mobile robots  multi-robot systems  sport  structured narratives  autonomous robots  robot teams  large-scale road race  marathon  legible form  weighted finite automaton  simulated race scenario  coordinated event observation planning  Videos  Robot kinematics  Cameras  Robot vision systems  Mobile robots  Observers 
Abstract: This paper addresses the problem of using autonomous robots to record events that obey narrative structure. The work is motivated by a vision of robot teams that can, for example, produce individualized highlight videos for each runner in a large-scale road race such as a marathon. We introduce a method for specifying the desired structure as a function that describes how well the captured events can be used to produce an output that meets the specification. This function is specified in a compact, legible form similar to a weighted finite automaton. Then we describe a planner that uses simple predictions of future events to coordinate the robots' efforts to capture the most important events, as determined by the specification. We describe an implementation of this approach, and demonstrate its effectiveness in a simulated race scenario both in simulation and in a hardware testbed.


Title: Rigid Body Motion Prediction with Planar Non-convex Contact Patch
Key Words: computational geometry  manipulator dynamics  mechanical contact  shear modulus  planar nonconvex contact patch  intermittent contact  rigid body dynamic simulation  convex contact patches  contact detection  contacting rigid bodies  multiple point contact  single point contact  rigid body motion prediction  convex hull  Mathematical model  Dynamics  Numerical models  Transmission line matrix methods  Robots  Bars  Symmetric matrices 
Abstract: We present a principled method for motion prediction via dynamic simulation for rigid bodies in intermittent contact with each other where the contact is assumed to be a planar non-convex contact patch. The planar non-convex contact patch can either be a topologically connected set or disconnected set. Such algorithms are useful in planning and control for robotic manipulation. Most work in rigid body dynamic simulation assume that the contact between objects is a point contact, which may not be valid in many applications. In this paper, by using the convex hull of the contact patch, we build on our recent work on simulating rigid bodies with convex contact patches, for simulating motion of objects with planar non-convex contact patches. We formulate a discrete-time mixed complementarity problem where we solve the contact detection and integration of the equations of motion simultaneously. Thus, our method is a geometrically-implicit method and we prove that in our formulation, there is no artificial penetration between the contacting rigid bodies. We solve for the equivalent contact point (ECP) and contact impulse of each contact patch simultaneously along with the state, i.e., configuration and velocity of the objects. We provide empirical evidence to show that our method can seamlessly capture transition between different contact modes like patch contact to multiple or single point contact during simulation.


Title: Optimal Path Planning for ω-regular Objectives with Abstraction-Refinement
Key Words: automata theory  computational complexity  control system synthesis  discrete time systems  game theory  optimal control  optimisation  path planning  trajectory control  optimal path planning  ω-regular objective  abstraction-refinement based framework  optimal controller synthesis  discrete-time concrete system  finite weighted transition system  optimal abstract controller  formal controller synthesis algorithms  robot surveillance scenario  Büchi automaton  Games  Automata  Surveillance  Cost function  Path planning  Partitioning algorithms 
Abstract: This paper presents an abstraction-refinement based framework for optimal controller synthesis of discrete-time systems with respect to ω-regular objectives. It first abstracts the discrete-time “concrete” system into a finite weighted transition system using a finite partition of the state-space. Then, a two-player mean payoff parity game is solved on the product of the abstract system and the Büchi automaton corresponding to the ω-regular objective, to obtain an optimal “abstract” controller that satisfies the ω-regular objective. The abstract controller is guaranteed to be implementable in the concrete discrete-time system, with a sub-optimal cost. The abstraction is refined with finer partitions to reduce the suboptimality. In contrast to existing formal controller synthesis algorithms based on abstractions, this technique provides an upper bound on the trajectory cost when implementing the suboptimal controller. A robot surveillance scenario is presented to illustrate the feasibility of the approach.


