total paper: 68
Title: Deep Neural Networks for Multiple Speaker Detection and Localization
Abstract: We propose to use neural networks for simultaneous detection and localization of multiple sound sources in human-robot interaction. In contrast to conventional signal processing techniques, neural network-based sound source localization methods require fewer strong assumptions about the environment. Previous neural network-based methods have been focusing on localizing a single sound source, which do not extend to multiple sources in terms of detection and localization. In this paper, we thus propose a likelihood-based encoding of the network output, which naturally allows the detection of an arbitrary number of sources. In addition, we investigate the use of sub-band cross-correlation information as features for better localization in sound mixtures, as well as three different network architectures based on different motivations. Experiments on real data recorded from a robot show that our proposed methods significantly outperform the popular spatial spectrum-based approaches.


Title: iMag: Accurate and Rapidly Deployable Inertial Magneto-Inductive Localisation
Abstract: Localisation is of importance for many applications. Our motivating scenarios are short-term construction work and emergency rescue. Not only is accuracy necessary, these scenarios also require rapid setup and robustness to environmental conditions. These requirements preclude the use of many traditional methods e.g. vision-based, laser-based, Ultra-wide band (UWB) and Global Positioning System (GPS)-based localisation systems. To solve these challenges, we introduce iMag, an accurate and rapidly deployable inertial magneto-inductive (MI) localisation system. It localises monitored workers using a single MI transmitter and inertial measurement units with minimal setup effort. However, MI location estimates can be distorted and ambiguous. To solve this problem, we suggest a novel method to use MI devices for sensing environmental distortions, and use these to correctly close inertial loops. By applying robust simultaneous localisation and mapping (SLAM), our proposed localisation method achieves excellent tracking accuracy, and can improve performance significantly compared with only using an inertial measurement unit (IMU) and MI device for localisation.


Title: Parallel Pick and Place Using Two Independent Untethered Mobile Magnetic Microgrippers
Abstract: Untethered mobile microgrippers exhibit flexibility and agility in small and constrained environments as precise and accurate robotic end-effectors, with promising potential applications in cell manipulation and microassembly. Here, we propose the first scheme to independently and simultaneously position two microgrippers on a horizontal plane for parallel targeted cargo delivery using a single global input. The separation and orientation of the two-microgripper pair are modulated by the local magnetic interactions between the two microgrippers, which are governed by a global magnetic field. The microgripper action of grasping or releasing cargoes is fully controlled by the global magnetic field without requiring additional thermal, chemical, or other stimuli. Thus, the proposed strategy only requires a single input, i.e., a global magnetic field, to control two microgrippers and therefore is simple to implement and fast-acting. As a demonstration, two microgrippers are maneuvered by a global magnetic field to pick up two cargoes and deliver them to their respective destinations. The parallel operation of two microgrippers can potentially double the overall throughput and enable the tasks that require team cooperations. The two 3D microgrippers configuration is intuitive in teleoperations, since it imitates the two-hand case of human beings.


Title: Comparison Study of Nonlinear Optimization of Step Durations and Foot Placement for Dynamic Walking
Abstract: This paper studies bipedal locomotion as a nonlinear optimization problem based on continuous and discrete dynamics, by simultaneously optimizing the remaining step duration, the next step duration and the foot location to achieve robustness. The linear inverted pendulum as the motion model captures the center of mass dynamics and its low-dimensionality makes the problem more tractable. We first formulate a holistic approach to search for optimality in the three-dimensional parametric space and use these results as baseline. To further improve computational efficiency, our study investigates a sequential approach with two stages of customized optimization that first optimizes the current step duration, and subsequently the duration and location of the next step. The effectiveness of both approaches is successfully demonstrated in simulation by applying different perturbations. The comparison study shows that these two approaches find mostly the same optimal solutions, but the latter requires considerably less computational time, which suggests that the proposed sequential approach is well suited for real-time implementation with a minor trade-off in optimality.


Title: Workspace Fixation for Free-Floating Space Robot Operations
Abstract: When a space robot accidentally or voluntarily comes in contact with a target object, a workspace shift happens due to exchange of momentum between the objects. The problem of workspace adjustment is addressed herein. A novel controller is derived to simultaneously adjust the workspace and control the end-effector pose. The controller is based on a center-of-mass (CoM) regulation which fixes the workspace in the inertial space while leaving the base free to move, resulting in fuel efficiency. The control is validated on hardware using a robotic simulator composed of a seven degree-of-freedom (DOF) arm mounted on a 6DOF moving base.


Title: Robust Visual Localization for Hopping Rovers on Small Bodies
Abstract: We present a collaborative visual localization method for rovers designed to hop and tumble across the surface of small Solar System bodies, such as comets and asteroids. In a two-phase approach, an orbiting primary spacecraft first maps the surface of a body by capturing images from various poses and illumination angles; these images are processed to create a prior map of 3D landmarks. In the second phase, a hopping rover is deployed to the surface where it uses a camera to relocalize to the prior map and to perform onboard visual simultaneous localization and mapping (SLAM). Small bodies present several unique challenges to existing visual SLAM algorithms, such as high-contrast shadows that move quickly over the surface due to the short (e.g. 1-12 hour) rotational periods, and large changes in visual appearance between orbit and the surface, where image scale varies by many orders of magnitude (kilometers to centimeters). In this work, we describe how to augment ORB-SLAM2-a state of the art visual SLAM implementation-to handle large variations in illumination by fusing prior images with varying illumination angles. We demonstrate how a hopping rover can use a wide field of view (FOV) camera to relocalize to prior maps captured by an orbiting spacecraft with a narrow FOV camera, and how the growth of pose and scale errors can be bounded by periodic loop closures during large hops. The proposed method is evaluated with sequences of images captured around a mock asteroid; it is shown to be robust to varying illumination angles, scene scale changes, and off-nadir camera pointing angles.


Title: Multi-Robot Realization Based on Goal Adjacency Constraints
Abstract: This paper considers the problem of multi-robot realization. A realization is a set of robot positions where pairwise distances are either bounded from above or from below by a given adjacency threshold - depending on whether the respective robot pairs are to be adjacent or not. In the realization problem, unlike the related coordinated navigation or formation control problems, exact goal positions or relative distances need not be specified. Rather, only pairwise adjacency constraints are given and the robots' positions are required to satisfy these constraints. Applications of realization problem include multi-robots involved in team games (playing soccer, etc), patrolling and area coverage. We present a novel solution to this problem in which the robots simultaneously navigate to find a realization of a given adjacency matrix without colliding with each other along the way. In this solution, complete information about pairwise distances and free configuration space are encoded using an artificial potential function over the cross product space of the robots' simultaneous positions and proximity variables. The closed-loop dynamics governing the motion of each velocity-controlled robot take the form of the appropriate projection of the gradient of this function while pairwise distances are adjusted accordingly. Our extensive simulations demonstrate that the proposed approach has considerably higher realization percentage and shorter movement distances in comparison to a standard 2-stage approach.


Title: Time-Contrastive Networks: Self-Supervised Learning from Video
Abstract: We propose a self-supervised approach for learning representations and robotic behaviors entirely from unlabeled videos recorded from multiple viewpoints, and study how this representation can be used in two robotic imitation settings: imitating object interactions from videos of humans, and imitating human poses. Imitation of human behavior requires a viewpoint-invariant representation that captures the relationships between end-effectors (hands or robot grippers) and the environment, object attributes, and body pose. We train our representations using a triplet loss, where multiple simultaneous viewpoints of the same observation are attracted in the embedding space, while being repelled from temporal neighbors which are often visually similar but functionally different. This signal causes our model to discover attributes that do not change across viewpoint, but do change across time, while ignoring nuisance variables such as occlusions, motion blur, lighting and background. We demonstrate that this representation can be used by a robot to directly mimic human poses without an explicit correspondence, and that it can be used as a reward function within a reinforcement learning algorithm. While representations are learned from an unlabeled collection of task-related videos, robot behaviors such as pouring are learned by watching a single 3rd-person demonstration by a human. Reward functions obtained by following the human demonstrations under the learned representation enable efficient reinforcement learning that is practical for real-world robotic systems. Video results, open-source code and dataset are available at sermanet.github.io/imitate.


Title: Reliably Arranging Objects in Uncertain Domains
Abstract: A crucial challenge in robotics is achieving reliable results in spite of sensing and control uncertainty. In this work, we explore the conformant planning approach to robot manipulation. In particular, we tackle the problem of pushing multiple planar objects simultaneously to achieve a specified arrangement without external sensing. Conformant planning is a belief-state planning problem. A belief state is the set of all possible states of the world, and the goal is to find a sequence of actions that will bring an initial belief state to a goal belief state. To do forward belief-state planning, we created a deterministic belief-state transition model from supervised learning based on off-line physics simulations. We compare our method with an on-line physics-based manipulation approach and show significantly reduced planning times and increased robustness in simulated experiments. Finally, we demonstrate the success of this approach in simulations and physical robot experiments.


Title: Backprop-MPDM: Faster Risk-Aware Policy Evaluation Through Efficient Gradient Optimization
Abstract: In Multi-Policy Decision-Making (MPDM), many computationally-expensive forward simulations are performed in order to predict the performance of a set of candidate policies. In risk-aware formulations of MPDM, only the worst outcomes affect the decision making process, and efficiently finding these influential outcomes becomes the core challenge. Recently, stochastic gradient optimization algorithms, using a heuristic function, were shown to be significantly superior to random sampling. In this paper, we show that accurate gradients can be computed - even through a complex forward simulation - using approaches similar to those in deep networks. We show that our proposed approach finds influential outcomes more reliably, and is faster than earlier methods, allowing us to evaluate more policies while simultaneously eliminating the need to design an easily-differentiable heuristic function. We demonstrate significant performance improvements in simulation as well as on a real robot platform navigating a highly dynamic environment.


Title: Simultaneous Optimization of ZMP and Footsteps Based on the Analytical Solution of Divergent Component of Motion
Abstract: Real-time planning of footsteps has been a big challenge for bipedal research. A large number of methods have been proposed over the last several years. In addition, divergent component of motion (DCM) of linear inverted pendulum (LIP) has been applied to solve this problem thus attracting a great deal of attention. In this paper, we derive an analytical solution of DCM for an arbitrary input function and propose a novel quadratic programming (QP) problem for the simultaneous optimization of zero moment point (ZMP) and foot placements based on the analytical solution. To validate the method, we conducted a push recovery experiment on real hardware. The result of the experiment shows that our new algorithm realizes a hierarchical strategy for disturbance compensation.


Title: Grasp-training Robot to Activate Neural Control Loop for Reflex and Experimental Verification
Abstract: Using a rehabilitation robot to activate motion intention and reflex response simultaneously is an effective approach to aiding recovery from paralysis caused by neurological disorders. Mechanical motions supported by conventional robots are, however, not enough to activate reflex. In this paper, we propose a grasp-training robot that can stimulate the grasp reflex of a paralyzed hand by pushing the hand onto an elastic bar while supporting the grasping movements. In addition to this feature, we discuss the robot design in relation to its usability and wearability for ease of use in clinical practice. Experimental results obtained from healthy subjects show that the proposed robot can support grasping in a way similar to the traditional range-of-motion exercise used by therapists for grasp rehabilitation. Combining this appropriate grasping-motion support and the mechanism for pushing the hand onto an elastic bar succeeds in activating the grasp reflex of a completely paralyzed patient in a clinical test that involves monitoring electromyography signals from the paralyzed hand.


Title: A Hierarchical Model for Action Recognition Based on Body Parts
Abstract: As increasing attention is paid on human action recognition from skeleton data, this paper focuses on such tasks by proposing a hierarchical model to discover the structure information of body-parts involved in human actions. Considering human actions as simultaneous motions of different body-parts of the human skeleton, we propose a hierarchical model to simultaneously apply discriminative body-parts selection at a same scale and group coupling of bundles of body-parts at different scales, while we decompose the human skeleton into a hierarchy of body-parts of varying scales. To represent such hierarchy of body-parts, we accordingly build a hierarchical RRV (Rotation and Relative Velocity) descriptors. The hierarchical representations encoded by Fisher vectors of the hierarchical RRV descriptors are properly formulated into the hierarchical model via the proposed hierarchical mixed norm, to apply sparse selection of body-parts and regularize the structure of such hierarchy of body-parts. The extensive evaluations on three challenging datasets demonstrate the effectiveness of our proposed approach, which achieves superior performance compared to state-of-the-art results on different sizes of datasets, showing it is more widely applicable than existing approaches.


Title: End-to-End Race Driving with Deep Reinforcement Learning
Abstract: We present research using the latest reinforcement learning algorithm for end-to-end driving without any mediated perception (object recognition, scene understanding). The newly proposed reward and learning strategies lead together to faster convergence and more robust driving using only RGB image from a forward facing camera. An Asynchronous Actor Critic (A3C) framework is used to learn the car control in a physically and graphically realistic rally game, with the agents evolving simultaneously on tracks with a variety of road structures (turns, hills), graphics (seasons, location) and physics (road adherence). A thorough evaluation is conducted and generalization is proven on unseen tracks and using legal speed limits. Open loop tests on real sequences of images show some domain adaption capability of our method.


Title: Encoderless Gimbal Calibration of Dynamic Multi-Camera Clusters
Abstract: Dynamic Camera Clusters (DCCs) are multi-camera systems where one or more cameras are mounted on actuated mechanisms such as a gimbal. Existing methods for DCC calibration rely on joint angle measurements to resolve the time-varying transformation between the dynamic and static camera. This information is usually provided by motor encoders, however, joint angle measurements are not always readily available on off-the-shelf mechanisms. In this paper, we present an encoderless approach for DCC calibration which simultaneously estimates the kinematic parameters of the transformation chain as well as the unknown joint angles. We also demonstrate the integration of an encoderless gimbal mechanism with a state-of-the art VIO algorithm, and show the extensions required in order to perform simultaneous online estimation of the joint angles and vehicle localization state. The proposed calibration approach is validated both in simulation and on a physical DCC composed of a 2-DOF gimbal mounted on a UAV. Finally, we show the experimental results of the calibrated mechanism integrated into the OKVIS VIO package, and demonstrate successful online joint angle estimation while maintaining localization accuracy that is comparable to a standard static multi-camera configuration.


Title: High-Precision Depth Estimation with the 3D LiDAR and Stereo Fusion
Abstract: We present a deep convolutional neural network (CNN) architecture for high-precision depth estimation by jointly utilizing sparse 3D LiDAR and dense stereo depth information. In this network, the complementary characteristics of sparse 3D LiDAR and dense stereo depth are simultaneously encoded in a boosting manner. Tailored to the LiDAR and stereo fusion problem, the proposed network differs from previous CNNs in the incorporation of a compact convolution module, which can be deployed with the constraints of mobile devices. As training data for the LiDAR and stereo fusion is rather limited, we introduce a simple yet effective approach for reproducing the raw KITTI dataset. The raw LiDAR scans are augmented by adapting an off-the-shelf stereo algorithm and a confidence measure. We evaluate the proposed network on the KITTI benchmark and data collected by our multi-sensor acquisition system. Experiments demonstrate that the proposed network generalizes across datasets and is significantly more accurate than various baseline approaches.


Title: Optimizing Placement and Number of RF Beacons to Achieve Better Indoor Localization
Abstract: In this paper, we propose a novel solution to optimize the deployment of Radio Frequency (RF) beacons for the purpose of indoor localization. We propose a system that optimizes both the number of beacons and their placement in a given environment. We propose a novel cost-function, called CovBsm, that allows to simultaneously optimize the 3-coverage while maximizing the beacon spreading. Using this cost function, we propose a framework that maximize both the number of beacons and their placement in a given environment. The proposed solution accounts for the indoor infrastructure and its influence on the RF signal propagation by embedding a realistic simulator into the optimization process.


Title: Addressing Challenging Place Recognition Tasks Using Generative Adversarial Networks
Abstract: Place recognition is an essential component of Simultaneous Localization And Mapping (SLAM). Under severe appearance change, reliable place recognition is a difficult perception task since the same place is perceptually very different in the morning, at night, or over different seasons. This work addresses place recognition as a domain translation task. Using a pair of coupled Generative Adversarial Networks (GANs), we show that it is possible to generate the appearance of one domain (such as summer) from another (such as winter) without requiring image-to-image correspondences across the domains. Mapping between domains is learned from sets of images in each domain without knowing the instance-to-instance correspondence by enforcing a cyclic consistency constraint. In the process, meaningful feature spaces are learned for each domain, the distances in which can be used for the task of place recognition. Experiments show that learned features correspond to visual similarity and can be effectively used for place recognition across seasons.


Title: Learning Coupled Forward-Inverse Models with Combined Prediction Errors
Abstract: Challenging tasks in unstructured environments require robots to learn complex models. Given a large amount of information, learning multiple simple models can offer an efficient alternative to a monolithic complex network. Training multiple models-that is, learning their parameters and their responsibilities-has been shown to be prohibitively hard as optimization is prone to local minima. To efficiently learn multiple models for different contexts, we thus develop a new algorithm based on expectation maximization (EM). In contrast to comparable concepts, this algorithm trains multiple modules of paired forward-inverse models by using the prediction errors of both forward and inverse models simultaneously. In particular, we show that our method yields a substantial improvement over only considering the errors of the forward models on tasks where the inverse space contains multiple solutions.


Title: Data-Efficient Decentralized Visual SLAM
Abstract: Decentralized visual simultaneous localization and mapping (SLAM) is a powerful tool for multi-robot applications in environments where absolute positioning is not available. Being visual, it relies on cheap, lightweight and versatile cameras, and, being decentralized, it does not rely on communication to a central entity. In this work, we integrate state-of-the-art decentralized SLAM components into a new, complete decentralized visual SLAM system. To allow for data association and optimization, existing decentralized visual SLAM systems exchange the full map data among all robots, incurring large data transfers at a complexity that scales quadratically with the robot count. In contrast, our method performs efficient data association in two stages: first, a compact full-image descriptor is deterministically sent to only one robot. Then, only if the first stage succeeded, the data required for relative pose estimation is sent, again to only one robot. Thus, data association scales linearly with the robot count and uses highly compact place representations. For optimization, a state-of-the-art decentralized pose-graph optimization method is used. It exchanges a minimum amount of data which is linear with trajectory overlap. We characterize the resulting system and identify bottlenecks in its components. The system is evaluated on publicly available datasets and we provide open access to the code. Supplementary Material Data and code are at: https://github.com/uzh-rpg/dslam_open.


Title: IMLS-SLAM: Scan-to-Model Matching Based on 3D Data
Abstract: The Simultaneous Localization And Mapping (SLAM) problem has been well studied in the robotics community, especially using mono, stereo cameras or depth sensors. 3D depth sensors, such as Velodyne LiDAR, have proved in the last 10 years to be very useful to perceive the environment in autonomous driving, but few methods exist that directly use these 3D data for odometry. We present a new low-drift SLAM algorithm based only on 3D LiDAR data. Our method relies on a scan-to-model matching framework. We first have a specific sampling strategy based on the LiDAR scans. We then define our model as the previous localized LiDAR sweeps and use the Implicit Moving Least Squares (IMLS) surface representation. We show experiments with the Velodyne HDL32 with only 0.40% drift over a 4 km acquisition without any loop closure (i.e., 16 m drift after 4 km). We tested our solution on the KITTI benchmark with a Velodyne HDL64 and ranked among the best methods (against mono, stereo and LiDAR methods) with a global drift of only 0.69%.


Title: Fast Nonlinear Approximation of Pose Graph Node Marginalization
Abstract: We present a fast nonlinear approximation method for marginalizing out nodes on pose graphs for longterm simultaneous localization, mapping, and navigation. Our approximation preserves the pose graph structure to leverage the rich literature of pose graphs and optimization schemes. By re-parameterizing from absolute-to relative-pose spaces, our method does not suffer from the choice of linearization points as in previous works. We then join our approximation process with a scaled version of the recently-demoted pose-composition approach. Our approach eschews the expenses of many state-of-the-art convex optimization schemes through our efficient and simple O(N2) implementation for a given known topology of the approximate subgraph. We demonstrate its speed and near optimality in practice by comparing against state-of-the-art techniques on popular datasets.


Title: A Monocular SLAM System Leveraging Structural Regularity in Manhattan World
Abstract: The structural features in Manhattan world encode useful geometric information of parallelism, orthogonality and/or coplanarity in the scene. By fully exploiting these structural features, we propose a novel monocular SLAM system which provides accurate estimation of camera poses and 3D map. The foremost contribution of the proposed system is a structural feature-based optimization module which contains three novel optimization strategies. First, a rotation optimization strategy using the parallelism and orthogonality of 3D lines is presented. We propose a global binding method to compute an accurate estimation of the absolute rotation of the camera. Then we propose an approach for calculating the relative rotation to further refine the absolute rotation. Second, a translation optimization strategy leveraging coplanarity is proposed. Coplanar features are effectively identified, and we leverage them by a unified model handling both points and lines to calculate the relative translation, and then the optimal absolute translation. Third, a 3D line optimization strategy utilizing parallelism, orthogonality and coplanarity simultaneously is proposed to obtain an accurate 3D map consisting of structural line segments with low computational complexity. Experiments in man-made environments have demonstrated that the proposed system outperforms existing state-of-the-art monocular SLAM systems in terms of accuracy and robustness.


Title: Visual Saliency-Aware Receding Horizon Autonomous Exploration with Application to Aerial Robotics
Abstract: This paper presents a novel strategy for autonomous visual saliency-aware receding horizon exploration of unknown environments using aerial robots. Through a model of visual attention, incrementally built maps are annotated regarding the visual importance and saliency of different objects and entities in the environment. Provided this information, a path planner that simultaneously optimizes for exploration of unknown space, and also directs the robot's attention to focus on the most salient objects, is developed. Following a two-step optimization paradigm, the algorithm first samples a random tree and identifies the branch maximizing for new volume to be explored. The first viewpoint of this path is then provided as a reference to the second planning step. Within that, a new tree is spanned, admissible branches arriving at the reference viewpoint while respecting a time budget dependent on the robot endurance and its environment exploration rate are found and evaluated in terms of reobserving salient regions at sufficient resolution. The best branch is then selected and executed by the robot, and the whole process is iteratively repeated. The proposed method is evaluated regarding its ability to provide increased attention toward salient objects, is verified to run onboard a small aerial robot, and is demonstrated in a set of challenging experimental studies.


Title: Pairwise Consistent Measurement Set Maximization for Robust Multi-Robot Map Merging
Abstract: This paper reports on a method for robust selection of inter-map loop closures in multi-robot simultaneous localization and mapping (SLAM). Existing robust SLAM methods assume a good initialization or an “odometry backbone” to classify inlier and outlier loop closures. In the multi-robot case, these assumptions do not always hold. This paper presents an algorithm called Pairwise Consistency Maximization (PCM) that estimates the largest pairwise internally consistent set of measurements. Finding the largest pairwise internally consistent set can be transformed into an instance of the maximum clique problem from graph theory, and by leveraging the associated literature it can be solved in realtime. This paper evaluates how well PCM approximates the combinatorial gold standard using simulated data. It also evaluates the performance of PCM on synthetic and real-world data sets in comparison with DCS, SCGP, and RANSAC, and shows that PCM significantly outperforms these methods.


Title: Active Motion-Based Communication for Robots with Monocular Vision
Abstract: In this paper, we consider motion as a means of sending messages between robots. We focus on a scenario in which a message is encoded in a sending robot's trajectory, and decoded by a receiver robot equipped with a monocular camera. The relative pose between the robots is unknown. We introduce an online Bayesian estimation algorithm based on the Multi-hypothesis Extended Kalman Filter for the receiving robot to simultaneously estimate its relative pose to the sender, and the trajectory class of the sender. The difficulty in this problem arises from the monocular vision model of the receiver and the unknown relative pose between robots, which brings inherent ambiguity into the trajectory identification, and hence the message decoding. An active vision-based control policy is derived and combined with the Bayesian estimation in order to deal with this difficulty. The policy is constructed online based on Monte Carlo Tree Search and aims at reducing the entropy over the trajectory class distribution. The algorithm has broad applications, e.g., to intent modeling and motion prediction for autonomous driving and autonomous drone operations. Simulation results demonstrate that the proposed estimation algorithm and the control policy result in an accurate trajectory classification.


Title: Using a Memory of Motion to Efficiently Warm-Start a Nonlinear Predictive Controller
Abstract: Predictive control is an efficient model-based methodology to control complex dynamical systems. In general, it boils down to the resolution at each control cycle of a large nonlinear optimization problem. A critical issue is then to provide a good guess to initialize the nonlinear solver so as to speed up convergence. This is particularly important when disturbances or changes in the environment prevent the use of the trajectory computed at the previous control cycle as initial guess. In this paper, we introduce an original and very efficient solution to automatically build this initial guess. We propose to rely on off-line computation to build an approximation of the optimal trajectories, that can be used on-line to initialize the predictive controller. To that end, we combined the use of sampling-based planning, policy learning with generic representations (such as neural networks), and direct optimal control. We first propose an algorithm to simultaneously build a kinodynamic probabilistic roadmap (PRM) and approximate value function and control policy. This algorithm quickly converges toward an approximation of the optimal state-control trajectories (along with an optimal PRM). Then, we propose two methods to store the optimal trajectories and use them to initialize the predictive controller. We experimentally show that directly storing the state-control trajectories leads the predictive controller to quickly converges (2 to 5 iterations) toward the (global) optimal solution. The results are validated in simulation with an unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV) and other dynamical systems.


Title: Simultaneous Planning and Estimation Based on Physics Reasoning in Robot Manipulation
Abstract: For robots to autonomously achieve manipulation tasks in various scenes, advanced operational skills such as tool use, learning from demonstration, and multi-robot/human-robot cooperation are necessary. In this research, we devise a method for robots to realize such operational skills in a unified manner by evaluating physical consistency (referred to as “physics reasoning”) based on the formulation of the manipulation statics constraints. First, we propose manipulation planning and estimation methods in which the operational feasibility and properties' likelihood are derived by physics reasoning. In addition, we propose a framework to manipulate an object with unknown physical properties by executing planning and estimation both sequentially and in parallel. We demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed methods by performing experiments in which real humanoid robots achieve various manipulation tasks with advanced operational skills.


Title: Multimodal Probabilistic Model-Based Planning for Human-Robot Interaction
Abstract: This paper presents a method for constructing human-robot interaction policies in settings where multimodality, i.e., the possibility of multiple highly distinct futures, plays a critical role in decision making. We are motivated in this work by the example of traffic weaving, e.g., at highway on-ramps/off-ramps, where entering and exiting cars must swap lanes in a short distance-a challenging negotiation even for experienced drivers due to the inherent multimodal uncertainty of who will pass whom. Our approach is to learn multimodal probability distributions over future human actions from a dataset of human-human exemplars and perform real-time robot policy construction in the resulting environment model through massively parallel sampling of human responses to candidate robot action sequences. Direct learning of these distributions is made possible by recent advances in the theory of conditional variational autoencoders (CVAEs), whereby we learn action distributions simultaneously conditioned on the present interaction history, as well as candidate future robot actions in order to take into account response dynamics. We demonstrate the efficacy of this approach with a human-in-the-loop simulation of a traffic weaving scenario.


Title: Vision-Based Robotic Grasping and Manipulation of USB Wires
Abstract: The fast expanding 3C (Computer, Communication, and Consumer electronics) manufacturing leads to a high demand on the fabrication of USB cables. While several commercial machines have been developed to automate the process of stripping and soldering of USB cables, the operation of manipulating USB wires according to the color code is heavily dependent on manual works because of the deformation property of wires, probably resulting in the falling-off or the escape of wires during manipulation. In this paper, a new vision-based controller is proposed for robotic grasping and manipulation of USB wires. A novel two-level structure is developed and embedded into the controller, where Level-I is referred to as the grasping and manipulation of wires, and Level-II is referred to as the wire alignment by following the USB color code. The proposed formulation allows the robot to automatically grasp, manipulate, and align the wires in a sequential, simultaneous, and smooth manner, and hence to deal with the deformation of wires. The dynamic stability of the closed-loop system is rigorously proved with Lyapunov methods, and experiments are performed to validate the proposed controller.


Title: Online Probabilistic Change Detection in Feature-Based Maps
Abstract: Sparse feature-based maps provide a compact representation of the environment that admit efficient algorithms, for example simultaneous localization and mapping. These representations typically assume a static world and therefore contain static map features. However, since the world contains dynamic elements, determining when map features no longer correspond to the environment is essential for long-term utility. This work develops a feature-based model of the environment which evolves over time through feature persistence. Moreover, we augment the state-of-the-art sparse mapping model with a correlative structure that captures spatio-temporal properties, e.g. that nearby features frequently have similar persistence. We show that such relationships, typically addressed through an ad hoc formalism focusing only on feature repeatability, are crucial to evaluate through a probabilistically principled approach. The joint posterior over feature persistence can be computed efficiently and used to improve online data association decisions for localization. The proposed algorithms are validated in numerical simulation and using publicly available data sets.


Title: Distributed Simultaneous Action and Target Assignment for Multi-Robot Multi-Target Tracking
Abstract: We study two multi-robot assignment problems for multi-target tracking. We consider distributed approaches in order to deal with limited sensing and communication ranges. We seek to simultaneously assign trajectories and targets to the robots. Our focus is on local algorithms that achieve performance close to the optimal algorithms with limited communication. We show how to use a local algorithm that guarantees a bounded approximate solution within O(hlog1/ε) communication rounds. We compare with a greedy approach that achieves a 2-approximation in as many rounds as the number of robots. Simulation results show that the local algorithm is an effective solution to the assignment problem.


Title: Vision-Based Multi-Task Manipulation for Inexpensive Robots Using End-to-End Learning from Demonstration
Abstract: We propose a technique for multi-task learning from demonstration that trains the controller of a low-cost robotic arm to accomplish several complex picking and placing tasks, as well as non-prehensile manipulation. The controller is a recurrent neural network using raw images as input and generating robot arm trajectories, with the parameters shared across the tasks. The controller also combines VAE-GAN-based reconstruction with autoregressive multimodal action prediction. Our results demonstrate that it is possible to learn complex manipulation tasks, such as picking up a towel, wiping an object, and depositing the towel to its previous position, entirely from raw images with direct behavior cloning. We show that weight sharing and reconstruction-based regularization substantially improve generalization and robustness, and training on multiple tasks simultaneously increases the success rate on all tasks.


Title: Distributed Learning for the Decentralized Control of Articulated Mobile Robots
Abstract: Decentralized control architectures, such as those conventionally defined by central pattern generators, independently coordinate spatially distributed portions of articulated bodies to achieve system-level objectives. State of the art distributed algorithms for reinforcement learning employ a different but conceptually related idea; independent agents simultaneously coordinating their own behaviors in parallel environments while asynchronously updating the policy of a system-or, rather, meta-level agent. This work, to the best of the authors' knowledge, is the first to explicitly explore the potential relationship between the underlying concepts in homogeneous decentralized control for articulated locomotion and distributed learning. We present an approach that leverages the structure of the asynchronous advantage actor-critic (A3C) algorithm to provide a natural framework for learning decentralized control policies on a single platform. Our primary contribution shows an individual agent in the A3C algorithm can be defined by an independently controlled portion of the robot's body, thus enabling distributed learning on a single platform for efficient hardware implementation. To this end, we show how the system is trained offline using hardware experiments implementing an autonomous decentralized compliant control framework. Our experimental results show that the trained agent outperforms the compliant control baseline by more than 40% in terms of steady progression through a series of randomized, highly cluttered evaluation environments.


Title: Topomap: Topological Mapping and Navigation Based on Visual SLAM Maps
Abstract: Visual robot navigation within large-scale, semistructured environments deals with various challenges such as computation intensive path planning algorithms or insufficient knowledge about traversable spaces. Moreover, many state-of-the-art navigation approaches only operate locally instead of gaining a more conceptual understanding of the planning objective. This limits the complexity of tasks a robot can accomplish and makes it harder to deal with uncertainties that are present in the context of real-time robotics applications. In this work, we present Topomap, a framework which simplifies the navigation task by providing a map to the robot which is tailored for path planning use. This novel approach transforms a sparse feature-based map from a visual Simultaneous Localization And Mapping (SLAM) system into a three-dimensional topological map. This is done in two steps. First, we extract occupancy information directly from the noisy sparse point cloud. Then, we create a set of convex free-space clusters, which are the vertices of the topological map. We show that this representation improves the efficiency of global planning, and we provide a complete derivation of our algorithm. Planning experiments on real world datasets demonstrate that we achieve similar performance as RRT* with significantly lower computation times and storage requirements. Finally, we test our algorithm on a mobile robotic platform to prove its advantages.


Title: PIRVS: An Advanced Visual-Inertial SLAM System with Flexible Sensor Fusion and Hardware Co-Design
Abstract: In this paper, we present the PerceptIn Robotics Vision System (PIRVS), a visual-inertial computing hardware with embedded simultaneous localization and mapping (SLAM) algorithm. The PIRVS hardware is equipped with a multi-core processor, a global-shutter stereo camera, and an IMU with precise hardware synchronization. The PIRVS software features a flexible sensor fusion approach to not only tightly integrate visual measurements with inertial measurements and also to loosely couple with additional sensor modalities. It runs in real-time on both PC and the PIRVS hardware. We perform a thorough evaluation of the proposed system using multiple public visual-inertial datasets. Experimental results demonstrate that our system reaches comparable accuracy of state-of-the-art visual-inertial algorithms on PC, while being more efficient on the PIRVS hardware.


Title: Talk Resource-Efficiently to Me: Optimal Communication Planning for Distributed Loop Closure Detection
Abstract: Due to the distributed nature of cooperative simultaneous localization and mapping (CSLAM), detecting inter-robot loop closures necessitates sharing sensory data with other robots. A naïve approach to data sharing can easily lead to a waste of mission-critical resources. This paper investigates the logistical aspects of CSLAM. Particularly, we present a general resource-efficient communication planning framework that takes into account both the total amount of exchanged data and the induced division of labor between the participating robots. Compared to other state-of-the-art approaches, our framework is able to verify the same set of potential inter-robot loop closures while exchanging considerably less data and influencing the induced workloads. We develop a fast algorithm for finding globally optimal communication policies, and present theoretical analysis to characterize the necessary and sufficient conditions under which simpler strategies are optimal. The proposed framework is extensively evaluated with data from the KITTI odometry benchmark datasets.


Title: StaticFusion: Background Reconstruction for Dense RGB-D SLAM in Dynamic Environments
Abstract: Dynamic environments are challenging for visual SLAM as moving objects can impair camera pose tracking and cause corruptions to be integrated into the map. In this paper, we propose a method for robust dense RGB-D SLAM in dynamic environments which detects moving objects and simultaneously reconstructs the background structure. While most methods employ implicit robust penalisers or outlier filtering techniques in order to handle moving objects, our approach is to simultaneously estimate the camera motion as well as a probabilistic static/dynamic segmentation of the current RGB-D image pair. This segmentation is then used for weighted dense RGB-D fusion to estimate a 3D model of only the static parts of the environment. By leveraging the 3D model for frame-to-model alignment, as well as static/dynamic segmentation, camera motion estimation has reduced overall drift - as well as being more robust to the presence of dynamics in the scene. Demonstrations are presented which compare the proposed method to related state-of-the-art approaches using both static and dynamic sequences. The proposed method achieves similar performance in static environments and improved accuracy and robustness in dynamic scenes.


Title: Displacement Amplifier Mechanism for Piezoelectric Actuators Design Using SIMP Topology Optimization Approach
Abstract: Due to their inherent crystalline properties piezoelectric actuators have a limited deformation. This intrinsic drawback deprives to exploit the potential of these actuators such as, high bandwidth and high resolution in applications that require large displacement range. To overcome this limitation, classical as well as systematic approaches were proposed to design amplification mechanisms. The classical approach leads to empirical mechanisms which are not trivial and needs much experience and intuition. In contrast, systematic approach uses topology optimization method which permits to automatically derive optimal designs that can satisfy specified performances and imposed constraints simultaneously, this with a reasonable time and cost. This paper proposes the design of a mechanism devoted to amplify the displacement of a piezoelectric actuators (PEA). Based on the SIMP topology optimization method, the approach permits to derive a design with a displacement amplification ratio of 4.5, which is higher than with the existing method of Rhombus mechanism. Both finite element (FE) simulation and experimental results confirm and demonstrate the efficiency of the approach.


Title: Safe Distributed Lane Change Maneuvers for Multiple Autonomous Vehicles Using Buffered Input Cells
Abstract: This paper introduces the Buffered Input Cell as a reciprocal collision avoidance method for multiple vehicles with high-order linear dynamics, extending recently proposed methods based on the Buffered Voronoi Cell [1] and generalized Voronoi diagrams [2]. We prove that if each vehicle's control input remains in its Buffered Input Cell at each time step, collisions will be avoided indefinitely. The method is fast, reactive, and only requires that each vehicle measures the relative position of neighboring vehicles. We incorporate this collision avoidance method as one layer of a complete lane change control stack for autonomous cars in a freeway driving scenario. The lane change control stack comprises a decision-making layer, a trajectory planning layer, a trajectory following feedback controller, and the Buffered Input Cell for collision avoidance. We show in simulations that collisions are avoided with multiple vehicles simultaneously changing lanes on a freeway. We also show in simulations that autonomous cars using the BIC method effectively avoid collisions with an aggressive human-driven car.


Title: Sparse-to-Dense: Depth Prediction from Sparse Depth Samples and a Single Image
Abstract: We consider the problem of dense depth prediction from a sparse set of depth measurements and a single RGB image. Since depth estimation from monocular images alone is inherently ambiguous and unreliable, to attain a higher level of robustness and accuracy, we introduce additional sparse depth samples, which are either acquired with a low-resolution depth sensor or computed via visual Simultaneous Localization and Mapping (SLAM) algorithms. We propose the use of a single deep regression network to learn directly from the RGB-D raw data, and explore the impact of number of depth samples on prediction accuracy. Our experiments show that, compared to using only RGB images, the addition of 100 spatially random depth samples reduces the prediction root-mean-square error by 50% on the NYU-Depth-v2 indoor dataset. It also boosts the percentage of reliable prediction from 59% to 92% on the KITTI dataset. We demonstrate two applications of the proposed algorithm: a plug-in module in SLAM to convert sparse maps to dense maps, and super-resolution for LiDARs. Software2 and video demonstration3 are publicly available.


Title: Efficient Continuous-Time SLAM for 3D Lidar-Based Online Mapping
Abstract: Modern 3D laser-range scanners have a high data rate, making online simultaneous localization and mapping (SLAM) computationally challenging. Recursive state estimation techniques are efficient but commit to a state estimate immediately after a new scan is made, which may lead to misalignments of measurements. We present a 3D SLAM approach that allows for refining alignments during online mapping. Our method is based on efficient local mapping and a hierarchical optimization back-end. Measurements of a 3D laser scanner are aggregated in local multiresolution maps by means of surfel-based registration. The local maps are used in a multi-level graph for allocentric mapping and localization. In order to incorporate corrections when refining the alignment, the individual 3D scans in the local map are modeled as a sub-graph and graph optimization is performed to account for drift and misalignments in the local maps. Furthermore, in each sub-graph, a continuous-time representation of the sensor trajectory allows to correct measurements between scan poses. We evaluate our approach in multiple experiments by showing qualitative results. Furthermore, we quantify the map quality by an entropy-based measure.


Title: Control of Multiple Passive-Follower Type Robots Based on Feasible Braking Control Region Analysis
Abstract: Ahstract- In this study, we propose a development and formation control of a passive mobile robot equipped only with servo brakes and no motors. The developed passive mobile robot can move forward by utilizing an external pulling force, and steers itself by controlling the servo brakes attached to each wheel. Systems composed of multiple mobile robots are very effective at exploring vast areas. However the coordination and simultaneous control of several robots utilizing simple information is a difficult task. Therefore we propose a leader follower architecture composed of multiple passive follower robots tethered to one active leader. In this paper, we first introduce the developed passive mobile robot. Then, we analyze the fundamental control method of this passive mobile robot from the perspective of the feasible braking control region, which considers the slip of the passive robot and the limitation of the external pulling force from the active leader. Lastly, a control law for the servo brakes attached to each wheel is proposed, followed by a feasibility study to determine whether the passive followers can stay in formation by controlling the servo brakes with the proposed control law.


Title: Direct Visual SLAM Using Sparse Depth for Camera-LiDAR System
Abstract: This paper describes a framework for direct visual simultaneous localization and mapping (SLAM) combining a monocular camera with sparse depth information from Light Detection and Ranging (LiDAR). To ensure realtime performance while maintaining high accuracy in motion estimation, we present (i) a sliding window-based tracking method, (ii) strict pose marginalization for accurate pose-graph SLAM and (iii) depth-integrated frame matching for large-scale mapping. Unlike conventional feature-based visual and LiDAR mapping, the proposed approach is direct, eliminating the visual feature in the objective function. We evaluated results using our portable camera-LiDAR system as well as KITTI odometry benchmark datasets. The experimental results prove that the characteristics of two complementary sensors are very effective in improving real-time performance and accuracy. Via validation, we achieved low drift error of 0.98 % in the KITTI benchmark including various environments such as a highway and residential areas.


Title: Efficient Active SLAM Based on Submap Joining, Graph Topology and Convex Optimization
Abstract: The active SLAM problem considered in this paper aims to plan a robot trajectory for simultaneous localization and mapping (SLAM) as well as for an area coverage task with robot pose uncertainty. Based on a model predictive control (MPC) framework, these two problems are solved respectively by different methods. For the uncertainty minimization MPC problem, based on the graphical structure of the 2D feature-based SLAM, a non-convex constrained least-squares problem is presented to approximate the original problem. Then, using variable substitutions, it is further transformed into a convex problem, and then solved by a convex optimization method. For the coverage task considering robot pose uncertainty, it is formulated and solved by the MPC framework and the sequential quadratic programming (SQP) method. In the whole process, considering the computation complexity, we use linear SLAM, which is a submap joining approach, to reduce the time for planning and estimation. Finally, various simulations are presented to validate the effectiveness of the proposed approach.


Title: 2D SLAM Correction Prediction in Large Scale Urban Environments
Abstract: Simultaneous Localization And Mapping (SLAM) is one of the major bricks needed to build truly autonomous mobile robots. The probabilistic formulation of SLAM is based on two models: the motion model and the observation model. In practice, these models, together with the SLAM map representation, do not model perfectly the robot's real dynamics, the sensor measurement errors and the environment. Consequently, systematic errors affect SLAM estimations. In this paper, we propose two approaches to predict corrections to be applied to SLAM estimations. Both are based on the Ensemble Multilayer Perceptron model. The first approach uses successive estimated poses to predict the errors, with no assumptions on the underlying SLAM process or sensor used. The second method is specific to 2D likelihood SLAM approaches, thus, the likelihood distributions are used to predict the corrections, making this second approach independent of the sensor used. We also build a hybrid correction module based on successive estimated poses and the likelihood distributions. The validity of both approaches is evaluated through two experiments using different evaluation metrics and sensor configurations.


Title: Omnidirectional Multisensory Perception Fusion for Long-Term Place Recognition
Abstract: Over the recent years, long-term place recognition has attracted an increasing attention to detect loops for largescale Simultaneous Localization and Mapping (SLAM) in loopy environments during long-term autonomy. Almost all existing methods are designed to work with traditional cameras with a limited field of view. Recent advances in omnidirectional sensors offer a robot an opportunity to perceive the entire surrounding environment. However, no work has existed thus far to research how omnidirectional sensors can help long-term place recognition, especially when multiple types of omnidirectional sensory data are available. In this paper, we propose a novel approach to integrate observations obtained from multiple sensors from different viewing angles in the omnidirectional observation in order to perform multi-directional place recognition in longterm autonomy. Our approach also answers two new questions when omnidirectional multisensory data is available for place recognition, including whether it is possible to recognize a place with long-term appearance variations when robots approach it from various directions, and whether observations from various viewing angles are the same informative. To evaluate our approach and hypothesis, we have collected the first large-scale dataset that consists of omnidirectional multisensory (intensity and depth) data collected in urban and suburban environments across a year. Experimental results have shown that our approach is able to achieve multi-directional long-term place recognition, and identifies the most discriminative viewing angles from the omnidirectional observation.


Title: Model Predictive Control of a Multi-Rotor with a Suspended Load for Avoiding Obstacles
Abstract: This paper investigates a multi-rotor with a suspended load in perspectives of 1) real-time path planning, 2) obstacle avoidance, and 3) transportation of a suspended object. A suspended load cannot be controlled with conventional controllers designed for nominal multi-rotors due to the dynamic coupling between the multi-rotor and load. Although several control and planning algorithms have been proposed based on elaborately derived dynamic equations, most existing studies separate control and path planning problems by following predefined trajectories after trajectory generation. Moreover, many state-of-the-art trajectory generation algorithms cannot work real-time for a system with high degrees of freedom, which makes it not suitable to operate the system in dynamic environments where obstacles appear abruptly or move unexpectedly. With this in mind, we apply Model Predictive Control (MPC) with Sequential Linear Quadratic (SLQ) solver to compute feasible and optimal trajectory real-time and to operate a multi-rotor with a suspended load in dynamic environments. We design an obstacle-avoidance algorithm suitable for the current platform flying in cluttered environments. Flight experiments shows that the proposed algorithm successfully controls the multi-rotor and allows to avoid obstacles simultaneously.


Title: Cooperative Manipulation and Identification of a 2-DOF Articulated Object by a Dual-Arm Robot
Abstract: In this work, we address the dual-arm manipulation of a two degrees-of-freedom articulated object that consists of two rigid links. This can include a linkage constrained along two motion directions, or two objects in contact, where the contact imposes motion constraints. We formulate the problem as a cooperative task, which allows the employment of coordinated task space frameworks, thus enabling redundancy exploitation by adjusting how the task is shared by the robot arms. In addition, we propose a method that can estimate the joint location and the direction of the degrees-of-freedom, based on the contact forces and the motion constraints imposed by the object. Experimental results demonstrate the performance of the system in its ability to estimate the two degrees of freedom independently or simultaneously.


Title: First Autonomous Multi-Room Exploration with an Insect-Inspired Flapping Wing Vehicle
Abstract: One of the emerging tasks for Micro Air Vehicles (MAVs) is autonomous indoor navigation. While commonly employed platforms for such tasks are micro-quadrotors, insect-inspired flapping wing MAVs can offer many advantages, such as being inherently safe due to their low inertia, reciprocating wings bouncing of objects or potentially lower noise levels compared to rotary wings. Here, we present the first flapping wing MAV to perform an autonomous multi-room exploration task. Equipped with an on-board autopilot and a 4 g stereo vision system, the DelFly Explorer succeeded in combining the two most common tasks of an autonomous indoor exploration mission: room exploration and door passage. During the room exploration, the vehicle uses stereo-vision based droplet algorithm to avoid and navigate along the walls and obstacles. Simultaneously, it is running a newly developed monocular color based Snake-gate algorithm to locate doors. A successful detection triggers the heading-based door passage algorithm. In the real-world test, the vehicle could successfully navigate, multiple times in a row, between two rooms separated by a corridor, demonstrating the potential of flapping wing vehicles for autonomous exploration tasks.


Title: Central Pattern Generator With Inertial Feedback for Stable Locomotion and Climbing in Unstructured Terrain
Abstract: Inspired by the locomotor nervous system of vertebrates, central pattern generator (CPG) models can be used to design gaits for articulated robots, such as crawling, swimming or legged robots. Incorporating sensory feedback for gait adaptation in these models can improve the locomotive performance of such robots in challenging terrain. However, many CPG models to date have been developed exclusively for open-loop gait generation for traversing level terrain. In this paper, we present a novel approach for incorporating inertial feedback into the CPG framework for the control of body posture during legged locomotion on steep, unstructured terrain. That is, we adapt the limit cycle of each leg of the robot with time to simultaneously produce locomotion and body posture control. We experimentally validate our approach on a hexapod robot, locomoting in a variety of steep, challenging terrains (grass, rocky slide, stairs). We show how our approach can be used to level the robot's body, allowing it to locomote at a relatively constant speed, even as terrain steepness and complexity prevents the use of an open-loop control strategy.


Title: AffordanceNet: An End-to-End Deep Learning Approach for Object Affordance Detection
Abstract: We propose AffordanceNet, a new deep learning approach to simultaneously detect multiple objects and their affordances from RGB images. Our AffordanceNet has two branches: an object detection branch to localize and classify the object, and an affordance detection branch to assign each pixel in the object to its most probable affordance label. The proposed framework employs three key components for effectively handling the multiclass problem in the affordance mask: a sequence of deconvolutional layers, a robust resizing strategy, and a multi-task loss function. The experimental results on the public datasets show that our AffordanceNet outperforms recent state-of-the-art methods by a fair margin, while its end-to-end architecture allows the inference at the speed of 150ms per image. This makes our AffordanceNet well suitable for real-time robotic applications. Furthermore, we demonstrate the effectiveness of AffordanceNet in different testing environments and in real robotic applications. The source code is available at https://github.com/nqanh/affordance-net.


Title: Assigning Visual Words to Places for Loop Closure Detection
Abstract: Place recognition of pre-visited areas, widely known as Loop Closure Detection (LCD), constitutes one of the most important components in robotic applications, where the robot needs to estimate its pose while navigating through the field (e.g., simultaneous localization and mapping). In this paper, we present a novel approach for LCD based on the assignment of Visual Words (VWs) to particular places of the traversed path. The system operates in real time and does not require any pre-training procedure, such as visual vocabulary construction or descriptor-space dimensionality reduction. A place is defined through a dynamic segmentation of the incoming image stream and is assigned with VWs through the usage of an on-line clustering algorithm. At query time, image descriptors are converted into VWs on the map accumulating votes to the corresponding places. By means of a probability function, the mechanism is capable of identifying a loop closing candidate place. A nearest neighbor voting scheme on the descriptors' space allows the system to select the most appropriate image match at the chosen place. Geometrical and temporal consistency checks are applied on the proposed loop closing pair increasing the system's performance. Evaluation took place on several publicly available and challenging datasets offering high precision and recall scores as compared to other state-of-the-art approaches.


Title: Localization Under Topological Uncertainty for Lane Identification of Autonomous Vehicles
Abstract: Autonomous vehicles (AVs) require accurate metric and topological location estimates for safe, effective navigation and decision-making. Although many high-definition (HD) roadmaps exist, they are not always accurate since public roads are dynamic, shaped unpredictably by both human activity and nature. Thus, AVs must be able to handle situations in which the topology specified by the map does not agree with reality. We present the Variable Structure Multiple Hidden Markov Model (VSM-HMM) as a framework for localizing in the presence of topological uncertainty, and demonstrate its effectiveness on an AV where lane membership is modeled as a topological localization process. VSM-HMMs use a dynamic set of HMMs to simultaneously reason about location within a set of most likely current topologies and therefore may also be applied to topological structure estimation as well as AV lane estimation. In addition, we present an extension to the Earth Mover's Distance which allows uncertainty to be taken into account when computing the distance between belief distributions on simplices of arbitrary relative sizes.


Title: Stabilizing Traffic with Autonomous Vehicles
Abstract: Autonomous vehicles promise safer roads, energy savings, and more efficient use of existing infrastructure, among many other benefits. Although the effect of autonomous vehicles has been studied in the limits (near-zero or full penetration), the transition range requires new formulations, mathematical modeling, and control analysis. In this article, we study the ability of small numbers of autonomous vehicles to stabilize a single-lane system of human-driven vehicles. We formalize the problem in terms of linear string stability, derive optimality conditions from frequency-domain analysis, and pose the resulting nonlinear optimization problem. In particular, we introduce two conditions which simultaneously stabilize traffic while imposing a safety constraint on the autonomous vehicle and limiting degradation of performance. With this optimal linear controller in a system with typical human driver behavior, we can numerically determine that only a 6% uniform penetration of autonomously controlled vehicles (i.e. one per string of up to 16 human-driven vehicles) is necessary to stabilize traffic across all traffic conditions.


Title: Towards Optimally Decentralized Multi-Robot Collision Avoidance via Deep Reinforcement Learning
Abstract: Developing a safe and efficient collision avoidance policy for multiple robots is challenging in the decentralized scenarios where each robot generates its paths without observing other robots' states and intents. While other distributed multi-robot collision avoidance systems exist, they often require extracting agent-level features to plan a local collision-free action, which can be computationally prohibitive and not robust. More importantly, in practice the performance of these methods are much lower than their centralized counterparts. We present a decentralized sensor-level collision avoidance policy for multi-robot systems, which directly maps raw sensor measurements to an agent's steering commands in terms of movement velocity. As a first step toward reducing the performance gap between decentralized and centralized methods, we present a multi-scenario multi-stage training framework to learn an optimal policy. The policy is trained over a large number of robots on rich, complex environments simultaneously using a policy gradient based reinforcement learning algorithm. We validate the learned sensor-level collision avoidance policy in a variety of simulated scenarios with thorough performance evaluations and show that the final learned policy is able to find time efficient, collision-free paths for a large-scale robot system. We also demonstrate that the learned policy can be well generalized to new scenarios that do not appear in the entire training period, including navigating a heterogeneous group of robots and a large-scale scenario with 100 robots. Videos are available at https://sites.google.com/view/drlmaca.


Title: Complex Urban LiDAR Data Set
Abstract: This paper presents a Light Detection and Ranging (LiDAR) data set that targets complex urban environments. Urban environments with high-rise buildings and congested traffic pose a significant challenge for many robotics applications. The presented data set is unique in the sense it is able to capture the genuine features of an urban environment (e.g. metropolitan areas, large building complexes and underground parking lots). Data of two-dimensional (2D) and three-dimensional (3D) LiDAR, which are typical types of LiDAR sensors, are provided in the data set. The two 16-ray 3D LiDARs are tilted on both sides for maximal coverage. One 2D LiDAR faces backward while the other faces forwards to collect data of roads and buildings, respectively. Raw sensor data from Fiber Optic Gyro (FOG), Inertial Measurement Unit (IMU), and the Global Positioning System (GPS) are presented in a file format for vehicle pose estimation. The pose information of the vehicle estimated at 100 Hz is also presented after applying the graph simultaneous localization and mapping (SLAM) algorithm. For the convenience of development, the file player and data viewer in Robot Operating System (ROS) environment were also released via the web page. The full data sets are available at: http://irap.kaist.ac.kr/dataset. In this website, 3D preview of each data set is provided using WebGL.


Title: Adaptive Sampling and Online Learning in Multi-Robot Sensor Coverage with Mixture of Gaussian Processes
Abstract: We consider the problem of online environmental sampling and modeling for multi-robot sensor coverage, where a team of robots spread out over the workspace in order to optimize the overall sensing performance. In contrast to most existing works on multi-robot coverage control that assume prior knowledge of the distribution of environmental phenomenon, also known as density function, we relax this assumption and enable the robot team to efficiently learn the model of the unknown density function Online using adaptive sampling and non-parametric inference such as Gaussian Process (GP). To capture significantly different components of the environmental phenomenon, we propose a new approach with mixture of locally learned Gaussian Processes for collective model learning and an information-theoretic criterion for simultaneous adaptive sampling in multi-robot coverage. Our approach demonstrates a better generalization of the environment modeling and thus the improved performance of coverage without assuming the density function is known a priori. We demonstrate the effectiveness of our algorithm via simulations of information gathering from indoor static sensors.


Title: Robust Localization of Mobile Robots Considering Reliability of LiDAR Measurements
Abstract: In this study, we propose a novel Light Detection and Ranging (LiDAR) sensor-based localization method for localization of a mobile robot. In localization using the LiDAR sensor, localization errors occur when real range measurements differ from reference distances computed from a map. This study focuses on three factors that cause differences between real range measurements and reference distances. The first factor corresponds to optical characteristics of the LiDAR sensor for objects such as glass walls and mirrors. The second factor corresponds to occlusions by dynamic obstacles. The third factor corresponds to static changes in the environment. In practical applications, three factors often simultaneously occur. Although there have been many previous works, robust localization to overcome these three difficulties is still a challenging problem. This study proposes a novel robust localization scheme that exploits only reliable range measurements. A LiDAR sensor-based localization scheme can be successfully executed by utilizing only a few reliable range measurements. Therefore, the computation of reliability plays a significant role. The computation of reliability is divided into two steps. The first step considers characteristics of optical sensors. The second step mainly deals with the effects of obstacles. The observation likelihood model exploits computed reliability for pose estimation. The proposed scheme was successfully verified through various experiments under challenging situations.


Title: Simultaneous Optimization of Assignments and Goal Formations for Multiple Robots
Abstract: This paper presents algorithms to simultaneously compute the optimal assignments and formation parameters for a team of robots from a given initial formation to a variable goal formation (where the shape of the goal formation is given, and its scale and location parameters must be optimized). We assume the n robots are identical spheres. We use the sum of squared travel distances as the objective function to be minimized, which also ensures that the trajectories are collision free. We show that this assignment with variable goal formation problem can be transformed to a linear sum assignment problem (LSAP) with pseudo costs that we establish are independent of the formation parameters. The transformed problem can then be solved using the Hungarian algorithm in O(n3) time. Thus the assignment problem with variable goal formations using this new approach has the same O(n3) time complexity as the standard assignment problem with fixed goal formations. Results from simulations on 200 and 600 robots are presented to show the algorithm is sufficiently fast for practical applications.


Title: Emulating a Fully Actuated Aerial Vehicle Using Two Actuators
Abstract: Micro air vehicles exemplified by quadrotors generate downward thrust in their body fixed frame and may only maneuver spatially by changing their orientation. As a result of this underactuation they are fundamentally incapable of simultaneously regulating orientation and position. Furthermore, their feasible maneuvers are limited to spatial trajectories with continuously differentiable acceleration. We present a coaxial helicopter which emulates full actuation over forces and torques (six degrees of freedom) using only two actuators. The orientation of the thrust vector from each rotor is governed by the drive motor by exciting a cyclic flapping response in special articulated blades. The useful separation of orientation and translation dynamics is demonstrated in flight experiments by tracking spatial trajectories while maintaining flat body attitude as well as tracking desired orientations near hover while station keeping.


Title: ACT: An Autonomous Drone Cinematography System for Action Scenes
Abstract: Drones are enabling new forms of cinematography. Aerial filming via drones in action scenes is difficult because it requires users to understand the dynamic scenarios and operate the drone and camera simultaneously. Existing systems allow the user to manually specify the shots and guide the drone to capture footage, while none of them employ aesthetic objectives to automate aerial filming in action scenes. Meanwhile, these drone cinematography systems depend on the external motion capture systems to perceive the human action, which is limited to the indoor environment. In this paper, we propose an Autonomous CinemaTography system “ACT” on the drone platform to address the above the challenges. To our knowledge, this is the first drone camera system which can autonomously capture cinematic shots of action scenes based on limb movements in both indoor and outdoor environments. Our system includes the following novelties. First, we propose an efficient method to extract 3D skeleton points via a stereo camera. Second, we design a real-time dynamical camera planning strategy that fulfills the aesthetic objectives for filming and respects the physical limits of a drone. At the system level, we integrate cameras and GPUs into the limited space of a drone and demonstrate the feasibility of running the entire cinematography system onboard in real-time. Experimental results in both simulation and real-world scenarios demonstrate that our cinematography system “ACT” can capture more expressive video footage of human action than that of a state-of-the-art drone camera system.


Title: Dancing PRM*: Simultaneous Planning of Sampling and Optimization with Configuration Free Space Approximation
Abstract: A recent trend in optimal motion planning has broadened the research area toward the hybridization of sampling, optimization and grid-based approaches. We can expect that synergy from such integrations leads to overall performance improvement, but seamless integration and generalization is still an open problem. In this paper, we suggest a hybrid motion planning algorithm utilizing a sampling-based and optimization-based planner while simultaneously approximating a configuration free space. Unlike conventional optimization-based approaches, the proposed algorithm does not depend on a priori information or resolution-complete factors, e.g., a distance field. Ours instead learns spatial information on the fly by exploiting empirical information during the execution, and decentralizes the information over the constructed graph for efficient access. With the help of the learned information, our optimization-based local planner exploits the local area to identify the connectivity of configuration free space without depending on the precomputed domain knowledge. To show the novelty of proposed algorithm, we evaluate it against other asymptotic optimal planners in both synthetic and complex benchmarks with varying degrees of freedom. We also discuss the performance improvement, properties and limitations we have observed.


Title: Hybrid Probabilistic Trajectory Optimization Using Null-Space Exploration
Abstract: In the context of learning from demonstration, human examples are usually imitated in either Cartesian or joint space. However, this treatment might result in undesired movement trajectories in either space. This is particularly important for motion skills such as striking, which typically imposes motion constraints in both spaces. In order to address this issue, we consider a probabilistic formulation of dynamic movement primitives, and apply it to adapt trajectories in Cartesian and joint spaces simultaneously. The probabilistic treatment allows the robot to capture the variability of multiple demonstrations and facilitates the mixture of trajectory constraints from both spaces. In addition to this proposed hybrid space learning, the robot often needs to consider additional constraints such as motion smoothness and joint limits. On the basis of Jacobian-based inverse kinematics, we propose to exploit robot null-space so as to unify trajectory constraints from Cartesian and joint spaces while satisfying additional constraints. Evaluations of hand-shaking and striking tasks carried out with a humanoid robot demonstrate the applicability of our approach.


Title: Feature-constrained Active Visual SLAM for Mobile Robot Navigation
Abstract: This paper focuses on tracking failure avoidance during vision-based navigation to a desired goal in unknown environments. While using feature-based Visual Simultaneous Localization and Mapping (VSLAM), continuous identification and association of map points are required during motion. Thus, we discuss a motion planning framework that takes into account sensory constraints for a reliable navigation. We use information available in the SLAM and propose a data-driven approach to predict the number of map points associated in a given pose. Then, a distance-optimal path planner utilizes the model to constrain paths such that the number of associated map points in each pose is above a threshold. We also include an online mapping of the environment for collision avoidance. Overall, we propose an iterative motion planning framework that enables real-time replanning after the acquisition of more information. Experiments in two environments demonstrate the performance of the proposed framework.


Title: Selection and Compression of Local Binary Features for Remote Visual SLAM
Abstract: In the field of autonomous robotics, Simultaneous Localization and Mapping (SLAM) is still a challenging problem. With cheap visual sensors attracting more and more attention, various solutions to the SLAM problem using visual cues have been proposed. However, current visual SLAM systems are still computationally demanding, especially on embedded devices. In addition, collaborative SLAM approaches emerge using visual information acquired from multiple robots simultaneously to build a joint map. In order to address both challenges, we present an approach for remote visual SLAM where local binary features are extracted at the robot, compressed and sent over a network to a centralized powerful processing node running the visual SLAM algorithm. To this end, we propose a new feature coding scheme including a feature selection stage which ensures that only relevant information is transmitted. We demonstrate the effectiveness of our approach on well-known datasets. With the proposed approach, it is possible to build an accurate map while limiting the data rate to 75 kbits/frame.


Title: Robust Dense Mapping for Large-Scale Dynamic Environments
Abstract: We present a stereo-based dense mapping algorithm for large-scale dynamic urban environments. In contrast to other existing methods, we simultaneously reconstruct the static background, the moving objects, and the potentially moving but currently stationary objects separately, which is desirable for high-level mobile robotic tasks such as path planning in crowded environments. We use both instance-aware semantic segmentation and sparse scene flow to classify objects as either background, moving, or potentially moving, thereby ensuring that the system is able to model objects with the potential to transition from static to dynamic, such as parked cars. Given camera poses estimated from visual odometry, both the background and the (potentially) moving objects are reconstructed separately by fusing the depth maps computed from the stereo input. In addition to visual odometry, sparse scene flow is also used to estimate the 3D motions of the detected moving objects, in order to reconstruct them accurately. A map pruning technique is further developed to improve reconstruction accuracy and reduce memory consumption, leading to increased scalability. We evaluate our system thoroughly on the well-known KITTI dataset. Our system is capable of running on a PC at approximately 2.5Hz, with the primary bottleneck being the instance-aware semantic segmentation, which is a limitation we hope to address in future work. The source code is available from the project Websitea.


Title: From Swarms to Stars: Task Coverage in Robot Swarms with Connectivity Constraints
Abstract: Swarm robotics carries the potential of solving complex tasks using simple devices. To do so, however, one must define distributed control algorithms capable of producing globally coordinated behaviours. We propose a methodology to address the problem of the spatial coverage of multiple tasks with a swarm of robots that must not lose global connectivity. Our methodology comprises two layers: (i) a distributed Robot Navigation Controller (RNC) is responsible for simultaneously guaranteeing connectivity and pursuit of multiple tasks; and (ii) a global Task Scheduling Controller approximates the optimal strategy for the RNC with minimal computational load. Our contributions include: (i) a qualitative analysis of the literature on connectivity assessment, (ii) our proposed methodology, (iii) simulations in a multi-physics environment, (iv) real-life robot experiments, and (v) the experimental validation of connectivity, coverage optimality, and fault-tolerance.


