total paper: 106
Title: DroneEARS: Robust Acoustic Source Localization with Aerial Drones
Abstract: Micro aerial vehicles (MAVs), an emerging class of aerial drones, are fast turning into high value mobile sensing assets. While MAVs have a large sensory gamut at their disposal; vision continues to dominate the external sensing scene, with limited usability in scenarios that offer acoustic clues. Therefore, we endeavor to provision a MAV auditory system (i.e., ears); and as part of this goal, our preliminary aim is to develop a robust acoustic localization system for detecting sound sources in the physical space-of-interest. However, devising this capability is extremely challenging due to strong ego-noise from the MAV propeller units, which is both wideband and non-stationary. It is well known that beamformers with large sensor arrays can overcome high noise levels; but in an attempt to cater to the platform (i.e., space, payload and computation) constraints of a MAV, we propose DroneEARS: a binaural sensing system for geo-locating sound sources. It combines the benefits of sparse (two elements) sensor array design (for meeting the platform constraints), and our proposed mobility-aided beamforming (for overcoming the severe ego-noise and its other complex characteristics) to significantly enhance the received signal-to-noise ratio (SNR). We demonstrate the efficacy of DroneEARS by empirical evaluations, and show that it provides a SNR improvement of 15-18 dB compared to many conventional and widely used techniques. This SNR gain translates to a source localization accuracy of approximately 40 cm within a scan region of 6m × 3m , that is, one order of magnitude better than competing methodologies.


Title: The Dubins Traveling Salesman Problem with Neighborhoods in the Three-Dimensional Space
Abstract: We introduce an extension of the Dubins Traveling Salesman Problem with Neighborhoods into the 3D space in which a fixed-wing aerial vehicle is requested to visit a set of target regions while the vehicle motion constraints are satisfied, i.e., the minimum turning radius and maximum climb and dive angles. The primary challenge is to address both the combinatorial optimization part of finding the sequence of target visits and the continuous optimization part of the final trajectory determination. Due to its high complexity, we propose to address both parts of the problem separately by a decoupled approach in which the sequence is determined by a new distance function designed explicitly for the utilized 3D Dubins Airplane model. The final trajectory is then found by a local optimization which improves the solution quality. The proposed approach provides significantly better solutions than using Euclidean distance in the sequencing part of the problem. Moreover, the found solutions are of the competitive quality to the sampling-based algorithm while its computational requirements are about two orders of magnitude lower.


Title: Cross-Layer Retrofitting of UAVs Against Cyber-Physical Attacks
Abstract: As a rapidly growing cyber-physical platform, unmanned aerial vehicles are facing more security threats as their capabilities and applications continue to expand. Adversaries with detailed knowledge about the vehicle could orchestrate sophisticated attacks that are not easily detected or handled by the vehicle's control system. In this work, we purpose a generic security framework, termed BlueBox, capable of detecting and handling a variety of cyber-physical attacks. To demonstrate an application of BlueBox in practice, we retrofitted an off-the-shelf quadcopter. A series of attacks were then launched by embedding malicious code in the control software and by altering the vehicle's hardware with the specific targeting of sensors, controller, motors, vehicle dynamics, and operating system. Experimental results verified that BlueBox was capable of both detecting a variety of cyber-physical attacks, while also providing the means in which to recover from such attacks.


Title: Local Behavior-Based Navigation in Rough Off-Road Scenarios Based on Vehicle Kinematics
Abstract: This paper describes a novel behavior-based local navigation approach for rough off-road scenarios. Trajectory candidates are generated based on vehicle kinematics and dynamics as well as the desired global trajectory. In contrast to on-road local navigation approaches, the work at hand proposes the use of a shiftable elevation grid map instead of occupancy maps since traversability in rough terrains does not only depend on location, but also on the robot's orientation. The traversability is evaluated by determining tire contact points with the terrain to take various different safety and efficiency aspects like underbody collisions and rollover risk into account. By exploiting the behavior-based control paradigm, the navigation approach can be easily extended and its robustness is shown in experimental evaluations using an Unimog U5023.


Title: A Parametric MPC Approach to Balancing the Cost of Abstraction for Differential-Drive Mobile Robots
Abstract: When designing control strategies for differential-drive mobile robots, one standard tool is the consideration of a point at a fixed distance along a line orthogonal to the wheel axis instead of the full pose of the vehicle. This abstraction supports replacing the non-holonomic, three-state unicycle model with a much simpler two-state single-integrator model (i.e., a velocity-controlled point). Yet this transformation comes at a performance cost, through the robot's precision and maneuverability. This work contains derivations for expressions of these precision and maneuverability costs in terms of the transformation's parameters. Furthermore, these costs show that only selecting the parameter once over the course of an application may cause an undue loss of precision. Model Predictive Control (MPC) represents one such method to ameliorate this condition. However, MPC typically realizes a control signal, rather than a parameter, so this work also proposes a Parametric Model Predictive Control (PMPC) method for parameter and sampling horizon optimization. Experimental results are presented that demonstrate the effects of the parameterization on the deployment of algorithms developed for the single-integrator model on actual differential-drive mobile robots.


Title: Correlation Flow: Robust Optical Flow Using Kernel Cross-Correlators
Abstract: Robust velocity and position estimation is crucial for autonomous robot navigation. The optical flow based methods for autonomous navigation have been receiving increasing attentions in tandem with the development of micro unmanned aerial vehicles. This paper proposes a kernel cross-correlator (KCC) based algorithm to determine optical flow using a monocular camera, which is named as correlation flow (CF). Correlation flow is able to provide reliable and accurate velocity estimation and is robust to motion blur. In addition, it can also estimate the altitude velocity and yaw rate, which are not available by traditional methods. Autonomous flight tests on a quadcopter show that correlation flow can provide robust trajectory estimation with very low processing power. The source codes are released based on the ROS framework.


Title: Bounding Drift in Cooperative Localisation Through the Sharing of Local Loop Closures
Abstract: Handling loop closures and intervehicle observations in cooperative robotic scenarios remains a challenging problem due to data consistency, bandwidth limitations and increased computation requirements. This paper develops a general cooperative localisation and single vehicle Visual SLAM framework that includes direct intervehicle observations and pose to pose loop closures on each vehicle with states shared as required. This fuses single vehicle SLAM with cooperative localisation and avoids data association of map data across limited communication networks. The base problem is developed as a factor graph with each vehicle solving local subgraphs that are split based on intervehicle observations. We modify the order of variable elimination in subgraphs through manipulation of the square-root of the Information matrix to extract updates that include the historic states involved in the loop closures and do not require transmission of other states not involved in the measurement or retransmission of previously shared states. We demonstrate the effect on localisation accuracy and bandwidth using data captured from a set of five robots observing each other and landmarks compared to both single vehicle SLAM, pure cooperative localisation and a centralised solution.


Title: Cooperative Object Transportation by Multiple Ground and Aerial Vehicles: Modeling and Planning
Abstract: In this paper the modeling and planning problems of a system composed of multiple ground and aerial robots involved in a transportation task are considered. The ground robots rigidly grasp a load, while the aerial vehicles are attached to the object through non-rigid inextensible cables. The idea behind such a heterogeneous multi-robot system is to benefit of the advantages of both types of robots that might be the precision of ground robots, the increased payload of multiple aerial vehicles and their larger workspace. The overall model of the system is derived and its expression and redundancy are exploited by setting a general constrained optimal planning problem. The problem is herein solved by dynamic programming and simulation results validated the proposed scheme.


Title: Socially Compliant Navigation Through Raw Depth Inputs with Generative Adversarial Imitation Learning
Abstract: We present an approach for mobile robots to learn to navigate in dynamic environments with pedestrians via raw depth inputs, in a socially compliant manner. To achieve this, we adopt a generative adversarial imitation learning (GAIL) strategy, which improves upon a pre-trained behavior cloning policy. Our approach overcomes the disadvantages of previous methods, as they heavily depend on the full knowledge of the location and velocity information of nearby pedestrians, which not only requires specific sensors, but also the extraction of such state information from raw sensory input could consume much computation time. In this paper, our proposed GAIL-based model performs directly on raw depth inputs and plans in real-time. Experiments show that our GAIL-based approach greatly improves the safety and efficiency of the behavior of mobile robots from pure behavior cloning. The real-world deployment also shows that our method is capable of guiding autonomous vehicles to navigate in a socially compliant manner directly through raw depth inputs. In addition, we release a simulation plugin for modeling pedestrian behaviors based on the social force model.


Title: Robot Navigation from Human Demonstration: Learning Control Behaviors
Abstract: When working alongside human collaborators in dynamic environments such as a disaster recovery, an unmanned ground vehicle (UGV) may require fast field adaptation to perform its duties or learn novel tasks. In disaster recovery situations, personnel and equipment are constrained, so training must be accomplished with minimal human supervision. In this paper, we introduce a novel framework which uses learned visual perception and inverse optimal control trained with minimal human supervisory examples. This approach is used to learn to mimic navigation behavior and is demonstrated through extensive evaluation in a real-world environment. Finally, we demonstrate the ability to learn an additional behavior with minimal human demonstration in the field.


Title: Design and Analysis of a Fixed-Wing Unmanned Aerial-Aquatic Vehicle
Abstract: In this paper, we describe the design and analysis of a fixed-wing unmanned aerial-aquatic vehicle. Inspired by prior work in aerobatic post-stall maneuvers for fixed-wing vehicles [1], we explore the feasibility of executing a water-to-air transition with a fixed-wing vehicle using almost entirely commercial off-the-shelf components (excluding the fuselage). To do this, we first propose a conceptual design based on observations about the dominant forces and dimensionless analysis. We then further refine this concept by building a design tool based on simplified models to explore the design space. To verify the results of the design tool, we use a higher fidelity model along with a direct hybrid trajectory optimization approach to show via numerical simulation that the water-to-air transition is feasible. Finally, we successfully test our design experimentally by hand-piloting a prototype vehicle through the water-to-air transition and discuss our approach for replacing the human-pilot with closed-loop control.


Title: The UNAV, a Wind-Powered UAV for Ocean Monitoring: Performance, Control and Validation
Abstract: Wind power is the source of propulsive energy for sailboats and albatrosses. We present the UNAv, an Unmanned Nautical Air-water vehicle, that borrows features from both. It is composed of a glider-type airframe fitted with a vertical wing-sail extending above the center of mass of the system and a vertical surface-piercing hydrofoil keel extending below. The sail and keel are both actuated in pitch about their span-wise axes. Like an albatross, the UNAv is fully streamlined, high lift-to-drag ratio and generates the gravity-cancelling force by means of its airborne wings. Like a sailboat, the UNAv interacts with water and may access the full magnitude of the wind. A trim analysis predicts that a 3.4-meter span, 3 kg system could stay airborne in winds as low as 2.8 m/s (5.5 knots), and travel several times faster than the wind speed. Trim flight requires the ability to fly at extreme low height with the keel immersed in water. For that purpose, a multi-input longitudinal flight controller that leverages fast flap actuation is presented. The flight maneuver is demonstrated experimentally.


Title: Vehicle Detection, Tracking and Behavior Analysis in Urban Driving Environments Using Road Context
Abstract: We present a real-time vehicle detection and tracking system to accomplish the complex task of driving behavior analysis in urban environments. We propose a robust fusion system that combines a monocular camera and a 2D Lidar. This system takes advantage of three key components: robust vehicle detection using deep learning techniques, high precision range estimation from Lidar, and road context from the prior map knowledge. The camera and Lidar sensor fusion, data association and track management are all performed in the global map coordinate system by taking into account the sensors' characteristics. Lastly, behavior reasoning is performed by examining the tracked vehicle states in the lane coordinate system in which the road context is encoded. We validated our approach by tracking a leading vehicle while it performed usual urban driving behaviors such as lane keeping, stop-and-go at intersections, lane changing, overtaking and turning. The leading vehicle was tracked consistently throughout the 2.3 km route and its behavior was classified reliably.


Title: GOMSF: Graph-Optimization Based Multi-Sensor Fusion for robust UAV Pose estimation
Abstract: Achieving accurate, high-rate pose estimates from proprioceptive and/or exteroceptive measurements is the first step in the development of navigation algorithms for agile mobile robots such as Unmanned Aerial Vehicles (UAVs). In this paper, we propose a decoupled Graph-Optimization based Multi-Sensor Fusion approach (GOMSF) that combines generic 6 Degree-of-Freedom (DoF) visual-inertial odometry poses and 3 DoF globally referenced positions to infer the global 6 DoF pose of the robot in real-time. Our approach casts the fusion as a real-time alignment problem between the local base frame of the visual-inertial odometry and the global base frame. The alignment transformation that relates these coordinate systems is continuously updated by optimizing a sliding window pose graph containing the most recent robot's states. We evaluate the presented pose estimation method on both simulated data and large outdoor experiments using a small UAV that is capable to run our system onboard. Results are compared against different state-of-the-art sensor fusion frameworks, revealing that the proposed approach is substantially more accurate than other decoupled fusion strategies. We also demonstrate comparable results in relation with a finely tuned Extended Kalman Filter that fuses visual, inertial and GPS measurements in a coupled way and show that our approach is generic enough to deal with different input sources in a straightforward manner. Video - https//youtu.be/GIZNSZ2soL8.


Title: Grasp a Moving Target from the Air: System & Control of an Aerial Manipulator
Abstract: Grasping a moving target has been investigated extensively for fixed-base manipulator. However, such a task becomes much more challenging when the manipulator is free flying in the air with an UAV. Towards moving target grasping, this paper presents an aerial manipulator system composed of a hex-rotor and a 7-DoF (Degree of Freedom) manipulator. An independent control structure is used in the aerial manipulator control system, i.e., the hex-rotor and the manipulator are controlled separately. In the hex-rotor's controller, the system CoM (Center of Mass) offset motion is used to compensate disturbance of the robotic arm. In the manipulator's controller, the relative kinematics between the target and the aerial vehicle is taken into consideration to grasp the target. At last aerial grasping experiments are conducted to validate the feasibility of the proposed control scheme and the reliability of our aerial manipulator system.


Title: Practical Motion Segmentation for Urban Street View Scenes
Abstract: Though a long-studied problem, motion segmentation has yet to migrate into practical applications. We argue that a vital step towards that goal lies in addressing motion segmentation for the specific setting of interest. To this end, this paper presents a new approach for image-based motion segmentation in the case of vehicles navigating inside an urban environment. We exploit two application-specific factors - the restricted camera movement and the known type of moving objects - to deal with the two major limiting factors - missing data and strong perspective effects - that affect most previous “generic” motion segmentation algorithms. By constraining the geometry and exploiting known semantic classes in the scene, we achieve much higher accuracy than previous approaches. In addition to the novel algorithm, we contribute a more realistic motion segmentation benchmark dataset for moving platforms by annotating real video sequences from the KITTI dataset. Experiments on this dataset and other synthetic data confirm the effectiveness of the proposed approach.


Title: Driven to Distraction: Self-Supervised Distractor Learning for Robust Monocular Visual Odometry in Urban Environments
Abstract: We present a self-supervised approach to ignoring “distractors” in camera images for the purposes of robustly estimating vehicle motion in cluttered urban environments. We leverage offline multi-session mapping approaches to automatically generate a per-pixel ephemerality mask and depth map for each input image, which we use to train a deep convolutional network. At run-time we use the predicted ephemerality and depth as an input to a monocular visual odometry (VO) pipeline, using either sparse features or dense photometric matching. Our approach yields metric-scale VO using only a single camera and can recover the correct egomotion even when 90% of the image is obscured by dynamic, independently moving objects. We evaluate our robust VO methods on more than 400km of driving from the Oxford RobotCar Dataset and demonstrate reduced odometry drift and significantly improved egomotion estimation in the presence of large moving vehicles in urban traffic.


Title: Navigating Occluded Intersections with Autonomous Vehicles Using Deep Reinforcement Learning
Abstract: Providing an efficient strategy to navigate safely through unsignaled intersections is a difficult task that requires determining the intent of other drivers. We explore the effectiveness of Deep Reinforcement Learning to handle intersection problems. Using recent advances in Deep RL, we are able to learn policies that surpass the performance of a commonly-used heuristic approach in several metrics including task completion time and goal success rate and have limited ability to generalize. We then explore a system's ability to learn active sensing behaviors to enable navigating safely in the case of occlusions. Our analysis, provides insight into the intersection handling problem, the solutions learned by the network point out several shortcomings of current rule-based methods, and the failures of our current deep reinforcement learning system point to future research directions.


Title: Autonomous Vehicle Navigation in Rural Environments Without Detailed Prior Maps
Abstract: State-of-the-art autonomous driving systems rely heavily on detailed and highly accurate prior maps. However, outside of small urban areas, it is very challenging to build, store, and transmit detailed maps since the spatial scales are so large. Furthermore, maintaining detailed maps of large rural areas can be impracticable due to the rapid rate at which these environments can change. This is a significant limitation for the widespread applicability of autonomous driving technology, which has the potential for an incredibly positive societal impact. In this paper, we address the problem of autonomous navigation in rural environments through a novel mapless driving framework that combines sparse topological maps for global navigation with a sensor-based perception system for local navigation. First, a local navigation goal within the sensor view of the vehicle is chosen as a waypoint leading towards the global goal. Next, the local perception system generates a feasible trajectory in the vehicle frame to reach the waypoint while abiding by the rules of the road for the segment being traversed. These trajectories are updated to remain in the local frame using the vehicle's odometry and the associated uncertainty based on the least-squares residual and a recursive filtering approach, which allows the vehicle to navigate road networks reliably, and at high speed, without detailed prior maps. We demonstrate the performance of the system on a full-scale autonomous vehicle navigating in a challenging rural environment and benchmark the system on a large amount of collected data.


Title: Dynamic Occupancy Grid Prediction for Urban Autonomous Driving: A Deep Learning Approach with Fully Automatic Labeling
Abstract: Long-term situation prediction plays a crucial role for intelligent vehicles. A major challenge still to overcome is the prediction of complex downtown scenarios with multiple road users, e.g., pedestrians, bikes, and motor vehicles, interacting with each other. This contribution tackles this challenge by combining a Bayesian filtering technique for environment representation, and machine learning as long-term predictor. More specifically, a dynamic occupancy grid map is utilized as input to a deep convolutional neural network. This yields the advantage of using spatially distributed velocity estimates from a single time step for prediction, rather than a raw data sequence, alleviating common problems dealing with input time series of multiple sensors. Furthermore, convolutional neural networks have the inherent characteristic of using context information, enabling the implicit modeling of road user interaction. Pixel-wise balancing is applied in the loss function counteracting the extreme imbalance between static and dynamic cells. One of the major advantages is the unsupervised learning character due to fully automatic label generation. The presented algorithm is trained and evaluated on multiple hours of recorded sensor data and compared to Monte-Carlo simulation. Experiments show the ability to model complex interactions.


Title: Realtime Vehicle and Pedestrian Tracking for Didi Udacity Self-Driving Car Challenge
Abstract: The efficiency and execution time of a road scene evaluation subsystem directly influences a self-driving car's control effectiveness. This article presents a novel approach to fuse data from various sensors (camera, LIDAR, radar, IMU) for pedestrian and vehicle tracking. Our approach, thanks to modern methods of image processing and power of GPU for LIDAR processing, achieves 25Hz update frequency for tracking. The system has been tested on the DiDi-Udacity Self-Driving Challenge datasets.


Title: Design and Analysis of a Novel Underwater Glider - RoBuoy
Abstract: Underwater gliders are special class of autonomous underwater vehicles (AUVs) proven to be power efficient with better range and endurance compared to the conventional underwater robots. Most of the existing underwater gliders use `change of mass' based variable buoyancy (VB) method in which the overall system architecture and construction are complex. A novel underwater glider RoBuoy based on the `change of volume' concept of variable buoyancy method is presented here. RoBuoy uses actuated metallic bellows to change the volume which makes the system simple and modular in construction without any compromise in the performance. It uses minimal number of parts compared to the existing gliders which reduces the overall complexity of the system. Also, most of the conventional gliders use the external fluid for its working which may result in corrosion or fouling of parts and requires frequent maintenance. In the proposed glider, all the vital parts required for its working, apart from the sensing payloads are enclosed inside the hull, thereby increasing the durability. In this paper, a detailed design of RoBuoy is discussed with its possible modes of operation. An integrated mathematical model considering the individual dynamics of the actuator, hull/fuselage, and the wings has been developed and the open loop performance of the glider is studied at different input conditions. An experimental prototype has been designed and fabricated based on optimized dimensions, with the required mechatronic system. Experiments have been conducted and the results prove the feasibility of the concept.


Title: Encoderless Gimbal Calibration of Dynamic Multi-Camera Clusters
Abstract: Dynamic Camera Clusters (DCCs) are multi-camera systems where one or more cameras are mounted on actuated mechanisms such as a gimbal. Existing methods for DCC calibration rely on joint angle measurements to resolve the time-varying transformation between the dynamic and static camera. This information is usually provided by motor encoders, however, joint angle measurements are not always readily available on off-the-shelf mechanisms. In this paper, we present an encoderless approach for DCC calibration which simultaneously estimates the kinematic parameters of the transformation chain as well as the unknown joint angles. We also demonstrate the integration of an encoderless gimbal mechanism with a state-of-the art VIO algorithm, and show the extensions required in order to perform simultaneous online estimation of the joint angles and vehicle localization state. The proposed calibration approach is validated both in simulation and on a physical DCC composed of a 2-DOF gimbal mounted on a UAV. Finally, we show the experimental results of the calibrated mechanism integrated into the OKVIS VIO package, and demonstrate successful online joint angle estimation while maintaining localization accuracy that is comparable to a standard static multi-camera configuration.


Title: A Low-Cost Navigation Strategy for Yield Estimation in Vineyards
Abstract: Accurate yield estimation is very important for improving the vineyard management, the quality of the grapes and the health of the vines. The most common systems use RGB image processing for achieving a good estimation. In order to collect images, robots or farming vehicles can be equipped with a RGB camera. In this paper, we propose a low-cost autonomous system which can navigate through a vineyard while collecting grape pictures in order to provide a yield estimation. Our system uses only a laser scanner to detect the row and follows it until its end, then it navigates towards the next one, exploiting the knowledge of the vineyard. The navigation algorithm was tested both in simulation and in a real environment with good results. Furthermore, a yield estimation of two different grape varieties is presented.


Title: Multi-robot Dubins Coverage with Autonomous Surface Vehicles
Abstract: In large scale coverage operations, such as marine exploration or aerial monitoring, single robot approaches are not ideal, as they may take too long to cover a large area. In such scenarios, multi-robot approaches are preferable. Furthermore, several real world vehicles are non-holonomic, but can be modeled using Dubins vehicle kinematics. This paper focuses on environmental monitoring of aquatic environments using Autonomous Surface Vehicles (ASVs). In particular, we propose a novel approach for solving the problem of complete coverage of a known environment by a multi-robot team consisting of Dubins vehicles. It is worth noting that both multi-robot coverage and Dubins vehicle coverage are NP-complete problems. As such, we present two heuristics methods based on a variant of the traveling salesman problem-k-TSP-formulation and clustering algorithms that efficiently solve the problem. The proposed methods are tested both in simulations to assess their scalability and with a team of ASVs operating on a 200 km2 lake to ensure their applicability in real world.


Title: Joint Multi-Policy Behavior Estimation and Receding-Horizon Trajectory Planning for Automated Urban Driving
Abstract: When driving in urban environments, an autonomous vehicle must account for the interaction with other traffic participants. It must reason about their future behavior, how its actions affect their future behavior, and potentially consider multiple motion hypothesis. In this paper we introduce a method for joint behavior estimation and trajectory planning that models interaction and multi-policy decision-making. The method leverages Partially Observable Markov Decision Processes to estimate the behavior of other traffic participants given the planned trajectory for the ego-vehicle, and Receding-Horizon Control for generating safe trajectories for the ego-vehicle. To achieve safe navigation we introduce chance constraints over multiple motion policies in the receding-horizon planner. These constraints account for uncertainty over the behavior of other traffic participants. The method is capable of running in real-time and we show its performance and good scalability in simulated multi-vehicle intersection scenarios.


Title: Best Response Model Predictive Control for Agile Interactions Between Autonomous Ground Vehicles
Abstract: We introduce an algorithm for autonomous control of multiple fast ground vehicles operating in close proximity to each other. The algorithm is based on a combination of the game theoretic notion of iterated best response, and an information theoretic model predictive control algorithm designed for non-linear stochastic systems. We test the algorithm on two one-fifth scale AutoRally platforms traveling at speeds upwards of 8 meters per second, while maintaining a following distance of under two meters from bumper-to-bumper.


Title: Deep Learning a Quadrotor Dynamic Model for Multi-Step Prediction
Abstract: We develop a multi-step motion prediction modeling method for dynamic systems over long horizons using deep learning. Building on previous work, we propose a novel hybrid network architecture, by combining deep recurrent neural networks with a quadrotor motion model created using classic system identification methods. The proposed model takes only the initial system state and motor speeds over the prediction horizon as inputs and returns robust state predictions for up to two seconds of motion at 100 Hz. We employ recurrent neural network state initialization during training, to exploit real-world dataset collected from quadrotor vehicle flights in an indoor flight arena. Our experiments demonstrate that the proposed hybrid network model consistently outperforms both black box and rigid body dynamics predictions over single and multi-step prediction scenarios, with an order of magnitude improvements in velocity estimates in particular.


Title: Perception-aware Receding Horizon Navigation for MAVs
Abstract: To reach a given destination safely and accurately, a micro aerial vehicle needs to be able to avoid obstacles and minimize its state estimation uncertainty at the same time. To achieve this goal, we propose a perception-aware receding horizon approach. In our method, a single forward-looking camera is used for state estimation and mapping. Using the information from the monocular state estimation and mapping system, we generate a library of candidate trajectories and evaluate them in terms of perception quality, collision probability, and distance to the goal. The best trajectory to execute is then selected as the one that maximizes a reward function based on these three metrics. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first work that integrates active vision within a receding horizon navigation framework for a goal reaching task. We demonstrate by simulation and real-world experiments on an actual quadrotor that our active approach leads to improved state estimation accuracy in a goal-reaching task when compared to a purely-reactive navigation system, especially in difficult scenes (e.g., weak texture).


Title: Viewpoint-Tolerant Place Recognition Combining 2D and 3D Information for UAV Navigation
Abstract: The booming interest in Unmanned Aerial Vehicles (UAV s) is fed by their potentially great impact, however progress is hindered by their limited perception capabilities. While vision-based odometry was shown to run successfully onboard UAV s, loop-closure detection to correct for drift or to recover from tracking failures, has so far, proven particularly challenging for UAVs. At the heart of this is the problem of viewpoint-tolerant place recognition; in stark difference to ground robots, UAVs can revisit a scene from very different viewpoints. As a result, existing approaches struggle greatly as the task at hand violates underlying assumptions in assessing scene similarity. In this paper, we propose a place recognition framework, which exploits both efficient binary features and noisy estimates of the local 3D geometry, which are anyway computed for visual-inertial odometry onboard the UAV. Attaching both an appearance and a geometry signature to each `location', the proposed approach demonstrates unprecedented recall for perfect precision as well as high quality loop-closing transformations on both flying and hand-held datasets exhibiting large viewpoint and appearance changes as well as perceptual aliasing.


Title: Flexible Stereo: Constrained, Non-Rigid, Wide-Baseline Stereo Vision for Fixed-Wing Aerial Platforms
Abstract: This paper proposes a computationally efficient method to estimate the time-varying relative pose between two visual-inertial sensor rigs mounted on the flexible wings of a fixed-wing unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV). The estimated relative poses are used to generate highly accurate depth maps in real-time and can be employed for obstacle avoidance in low-altitude flights or landing maneuvers. The approach is structured as follows: Initially, a wing model is identified by fitting a probability density function to measured deviations from the nominal relative baseline transformation. At runtime, the prior knowledge about the wing model is fused in an Extended Kalman filter (EKF) together with relative pose measurements obtained from solving a relative perspective N-point problem (PNP), and the linear accelerations and angular velocities measured by the two inertial measurement units (IMU) which are rigidly attached to the cameras. Results obtained from extensive synthetic experiments demonstrate that our proposed framework is able to estimate highly accurate baseline transformations and depth maps.


Title: Visual-Inertial Navigation Algorithm Development Using Photorealistic Camera Simulation in the Loop
Abstract: The development of fast, agile micro Unmanned Aerial Vehicles (UAVs) has been limited by (i) on-board computing hardware restrictions, (ii) the lack of sophisticated vision-based perception and vision-in-the-loop control algorithms, and (iii) the absence of development environments where such systems and algorithms can be rapidly and easily designed, implemented, and validated. Here, we first present a new micro UAV platform that integrates high-rate cameras, inertial sensors, and an NVIDIA Jetson Tegra X1 system-on-chip compute module that boasts 256 GPU cores. The UAV mechanics and electronics were designed and built in house, and are described in detail. Second, we present a novel “virtual reality” development environment, in which photorealistically-rendered synthetic on-board camera images are generated in real time while the UAV is in flight. This development environment allows us to rapidly prototype computing and sensing hardware as well as perception and control algorithms, using real physics, real interoceptive sensor data (e.g., from the on-board inertial measurement unit), and synthetic exteroceptive sensor data (e.g., from synthetic cameras). Third, we demonstrate repeated agile maneuvering with closed-loop vision-based perception and control algorithms, which we have developed using this environment.


Title: Map-Aware Particle Filter for Localization
Abstract: This work presents a method to improve vehicle localization by using the information from a prior occupancy grid to bound the possible poses. The method, named Map-Aware Particle Filter, uses a nonlinear approach to map-matching that can be integrated into a particle filter framework for localization. Each particle is re-weighted based on the validity of its current position in the map. In addition, we buffer the trajectory followed by the vehicle and then append it to each particle's pose. We then quantify the overlap between the trajectory and the map's free space. This serves as a measure of each particle's validity given the trajectory and the shape of the map. We evaluated the method by performing experiments with different types of localization sensors: First, (i) we significantly reduced the drift inherent to dead reckoning. By only using wheel odometry and map information we achieved loop closure over a distance of approximately 3 km. We also (ii) increased the accuracy of GPS localization. Finally, (iii) we fused a fragile 2D LiDAR localization with the map information. The resulting system had a higher robustness and managed to close the loop in an outdated map where it had failed before.


Title: Using a Memory of Motion to Efficiently Warm-Start a Nonlinear Predictive Controller
Abstract: Predictive control is an efficient model-based methodology to control complex dynamical systems. In general, it boils down to the resolution at each control cycle of a large nonlinear optimization problem. A critical issue is then to provide a good guess to initialize the nonlinear solver so as to speed up convergence. This is particularly important when disturbances or changes in the environment prevent the use of the trajectory computed at the previous control cycle as initial guess. In this paper, we introduce an original and very efficient solution to automatically build this initial guess. We propose to rely on off-line computation to build an approximation of the optimal trajectories, that can be used on-line to initialize the predictive controller. To that end, we combined the use of sampling-based planning, policy learning with generic representations (such as neural networks), and direct optimal control. We first propose an algorithm to simultaneously build a kinodynamic probabilistic roadmap (PRM) and approximate value function and control policy. This algorithm quickly converges toward an approximation of the optimal state-control trajectories (along with an optimal PRM). Then, we propose two methods to store the optimal trajectories and use them to initialize the predictive controller. We experimentally show that directly storing the state-control trajectories leads the predictive controller to quickly converges (2 to 5 iterations) toward the (global) optimal solution. The results are validated in simulation with an unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV) and other dynamical systems.


Title: Acceleration of Gradient-Based Path Integral Method for Efficient Optimal and Inverse Optimal Control
Abstract: This paper deals with a new accelerated path integral method, which iteratively searches optimal controls with a small number of iterations. This study is based on the recent observations that a path integral method for reinforcement learning can be interpreted as gradient descent. This observation also applies to an iterative path integral method for optimal control, which sets a convincing argument for utilizing various optimization methods for gradient descent, such as momentum-based acceleration, step-size adaptation and their combination. We introduce these types of methods to the path integral and demonstrate that momentum-based methods, like Nesterov Accelerated Gradient and Adam, can significantly improve the convergence rate to search for optimal controls in simulated control systems. We also demonstrate that the accelerated path integral could improve the performance on model predictive control for various vehicle navigation tasks. Finally, we represent this accelerated path integral method as a recurrent network, which is the accelerated version of the previously proposed path integral networks (PI-Net). We can train the accelerated PI-Net more efficiently for inverse optimal control with less RAM than the original PI-Net.


Title: A General Pipeline for 3D Detection of Vehicles
Abstract: Autonomous driving requires 3D perception of vehicles and other objects in the in environment. Much of the current methods support 2D vehicle detection. This paper proposes a flexible pipeline to adopt any 2D detection network and fuse it with a 3D point cloud to generate 3D information with minimum changes of the 2D detection networks. To identify the 3D box, an effective model fitting algorithm is developed based on generalised car models and score maps. A two-stage convolutional neural network (CNN) is proposed to refine the detected 3D box. This pipeline is tested on the KITTI dataset using two different 2D detection networks. The 3D detection results based on these two networks are similar, demonstrating the flexibility of the proposed pipeline. The results rank second among the 3D detection algorithms, indicating its competencies in 3D detection.


Title: Modeling Driver Behavior from Demonstrations in Dynamic Environments Using Spatiotemporal Lattices
Abstract: One of the most challenging tasks in the development of path planners for intelligent vehicles is the design of the cost function that models the desired behavior of the vehicle. While this task has been traditionally accomplished by hand-tuning the model parameters, recent approaches propose to learn the model automatically from demonstrated driving data using Inverse Reinforcement Learning (IRL). To determine if the model has correctly captured the demonstrated behavior, most IRL methods require obtaining a policy by solving the forward control problem repetitively. Calculating the full policy is a costly task in continuous or large domains and thus often approximated by finding a single trajectory using traditional path-planning techniques. In this work, we propose to find such a trajectory using a conformal spatiotemporal state lattice, which offers two main advantages. First, by conforming the lattice to the environment, the search is focused only on feasible motions for the robot, saving computational power. And second, by considering time as part of the state, the trajectory is optimized with respect to the motion of the dynamic obstacles in the scene. As a consequence, the resulting trajectory can be used for the model assessment. We show how the proposed IRL framework can successfully handle highly dynamic environments by modeling the highway tactical driving task from demonstrated driving data gathered with an instrumented vehicle.


Title: Drive Video Analysis for the Detection of Traffic Near-Miss Incidents
Abstract: Because of their recent introduction, self-driving cars and advanced driver assistance system (ADAS) equipped vehicles have had little opportunity to learn, the dangerous traffic (including near-miss incident) scenarios that provide normal drivers with strong motivation to drive safely. Accordingly, as a means of providing learning depth, this paper presents a novel traffic database that contains information on a large number of traffic near-miss incidents that were obtained by mounting driving recorders in more than 100 taxis over the course of a decade. The study makes the following two main contributions: (i) In order to assist automated systems in detecting near-miss incidents based on database instances, we created a large-scale traffic near-miss incident database (NIDB) that consists of video clip of dangerous events captured by monocular driving recorders. (ii) To illustrate the applicability of NIDB traffic near-miss incidents, we provide two primary database-related improvements: parameter fine-tuning using various near-miss scenes from NIDB, and foreground/background separation into motion representation. Then, using our new database in conjunction with a monocular driving recorder, we developed a near-miss recognition method that provides automated systems with a performance level that is comparable to a human-level understanding of near-miss incidents (64.5% vs. 68.4% at near-miss recognition, 61.3% vs. 78.7% at near-miss detection).


Title: A Modular Dielectric Elastomer Actuator to Drive Miniature Autonomous Underwater Vehicles
Abstract: In this paper we present the design of a fin-like dielectric elastomer actuator (DEA) that drives a miniature autonomous underwater vehicle (AUV). The fin-like actuator is modular and independent of the body of the AUV. All electronics required to run the actuator are inside the 100 mm long 3D-printed body, allowing for autonomous mobility of the AUV. The DEA is easy to manufacture, requires no pre-stretch of the elastomers, and is completely sealed for underwater operation. The output thrust force can be tuned by stacking multiple actuation layers and modifying the Young's modulus of the elastomers. The AUV is reconfigurable by a shift of its center of mass, such that both planar and vertical swimming can be demonstrated on a single vehicle. For the DEA we measured thrust force and swimming speed for various actuator designs ran at frequencies from 1 Hz to 5 Hz. For the AUV we demonstrated autonomous planar swimming and closed-loop vertical diving. The actuators capable of outputting the highest thrust forces can power the AUV to swim at speeds of up to 0.55 body lengths per second. The speed falls in the upper range of untethered swimming robots powered by soft actuators. Our tunable DEAs also demonstrate the potential to mimic the undulatory motions of fish fins.


Title: Autonomous Bio-Inspired Small-Object Detection and Avoidance
Abstract: Small-object detection and avoidance in unknown environments is a significant challenge to overcome for small autonomous vehicles that are generally highly agile and restricted in payload and computational processing power. Typical machine-vision and range measurement based solutions suffer either from restricted fields-of-view or significant computational complexity and are not easily portable to small platforms. In this paper, a novel bio-inspired navigation technique is introduced that is modeled using analogues of the small-field motion-sensitive interneurons of the insect visuomotor system. The proposed technique achieves small-field object detection based on Fourier residual analysis of instantaneous optic flow. The small field signal is used to extract relative range and bearing of the nearest obstacle, which is then combined with an artificial potential function-based low-order steering control law. The proposed sensing and control scheme is experimentally validated with a quadrotor vehicle that is able to effectively navigate an unknown environment laden with small-field clutter. This bio-inspired approach is computationally efficient and serves as a robust, reflexive solution to the problem of small-object detection and avoidance for autonomous robots.


Title: Liftoff of a 190 mg Laser-Powered Aerial Vehicle: The Lightest Wireless Robot to Fly
Abstract: To date, insect scale aerial robots have required wire tethers for providing power due to the challenges of integrating the required high-voltage power electronics within their severely constrained weight budgets. In this paper we present a significant milestone in the achievement of flight autonomy: the first wireless liftoff of a 190 mg aerial vehicle. Our robot is remotely powered using a 976 nm laser and integrates a complete power electronics package weighing a total of 104 mg, using commercially available components and fabricated using a fast-turnaround laser based circuit fabrication technique. The onboard electronics include a lightweight boost converter capable of producing high voltage bias and drive signals of over 200 V at up to 170 Hz and regulated by a microcontroller performing feedback control. We present our system design and analysis, detailed description of our fabrication method, and results from flight experiments.


Title: Towards Globally Consistent Visual-Inertial Collaborative SLAM
Abstract: Motivated by the need for globally consistent tracking and mapping before autonomous robot navigation becomes realistically feasible, this paper presents a novel backend to monocular-inertial odometry. As some of the most challenging platforms for vision-based perception, we evaluate the performance of our system using Unmanned Aerial Vehicles (UAV s). Our experimental validation demonstrates that the proposed approach achieves drift correction and metric scale estimation from a single UAV on benchmarking datasets. Furthermore, the generality of our approach is demonstrated to achieve globally consistent maps built in a collaborative manner from two UAVs, each equipped with a monocular-inertial sensor suite, showing the possible gains opened by collaboration amongst robots to perform SLAM. Video - https://youtu.be/wbX36HBu2Eg.


Title: Vision Based Collaborative Path Planning for Micro Aerial Vehicles
Abstract: In this paper, we present a collaborative path-planning framework for a group of micro aerial vehicles that are capable of localizing through vision. Each of the micro aerial vehicles is assumed to be equipped with a forward facing monocular camera. The vehicles initially use their captured images to build 3D maps through common features; and subsequently track these features to localize through 3D-2D correspondences. The planning algorithm, while connecting start locations to provided goal locations, also aims to reduce the localization uncertainty of the vehicles in the group. To achieve this, we develop a two-step planning framework: the first step attempts to build an improved map of the environment by solving the next-best-view problem for multiple cameras. We express this as a black-box optimization problem and solve it using the Covariance Matrix Adaption evolution strategy (CMA-ES). Once an improved map is available, the second stage of the planning framework performs belief space planning for the vehicles individually using the rapidly exploring random belief tree (RRBT) algorithm. Through the RRBT approach, the planner generates paths that ensure feature visibility while attempting to optimize path cost and reduce localization uncertainty. We validate our approach using experiments conducted in a high visual-fidelity aerial vehicle simulator, Microsoft AirSim.


Title: Semi-Dense Visual-Inertial Odometry and Mapping for Quadrotors with SWAP Constraints
Abstract: Micro Aerial Vehicles have the potential to assist humans in real life tasks involving applications such as smart homes, search and rescue, and architecture construction. To enhance autonomous navigation capabilities these vehicles need to be able to create dense 3D maps of the environment, while concurrently estimating their own motion. In this paper, we are particularly interested in small vehicles that can navigate cluttered indoor environments. We address the problem of visual inertial state estimation, control and 3D mapping on platforms with Size, Weight, And Power (SWAP) constraints. The proposed approach is validated through experimental results on a 250 g, 22 cm diameter quadrotor equipped only with a stereo camera and an IMU with a computationally-limited CPU showing the ability to autonomously navigate, while concurrently creating a 3D map of the environment.


Title: Screw-Powered Propulsion in Granular Media: An Experimental and Computational Study
Abstract: Screw-Propelled Vehicles (SPV's) have been widely used for terrestrial applications such as transportation over mud, snow, and amphibious environments. Similar vehicles have also been applied to industrial processes such as dewatering. Typical designs rely on a large pontoon shaft and relatively small blades to prevent unwanted sinkage or blade damage. These types of vehicles were considered during the design of the first lunar rover, given their success in aqueous and arctic media and simplicity compared to tracked vehicles. Studies have looked at the mobility of SPV's on the surface of granular media but there are not any computational and experimental studies on propulsive buried screws. Understanding the role of screw design and its angular velocity on thrust force is key to the advancement and control of SPV's. This study presents experimental and computational results of a submerged, double-helix Archimedes screw generating propulsive force against a bed of soda-lime glass beads. Thus, this research forms the basis for design of a future miniaturized exploration vehicle for space applications. In our study, we used two different screw designs (5 cm radius, 10 cm length, 63 and 44 degrees helix angle corresponding to 4 cm and 8 cm pitch, respectively) submerged in 2mm glass beads (90% roundness with sizes 1.8 mm to 2.2 mm), For both screws, a similar trend is observed between rotational speed and thrust force. We used EDEM, a Discrete Element Modeling (DEM) software for computational studies of the screw interactions with granular media. There is 5-20% discrepancy between our computational and experimental results. We will discuss possible sources of error and the potential for using DEM as a design tool for SPV's.


Title: Clothoid-Based Global Path Planning for Autonomous Vehicles in Urban Scenarios
Abstract: Intelligent vehicles require an efficient way to compute a feasible path that connects its current localization to a destination point. To achieve that, the knowledge about the road network, including its geometry, is important since connections between roads can be used in the path planning. This work consists on computing a feasible global path for autonomous vehicles with kinematic constraints. Piecewise linear continuous-curvature paths composed of clothoids, circular arcs, and straight lines are used for this purpose. Low curvature derivatives provide comfort to passengers. This approach provides a compact road network representation as only the parameters of the curves are stored. A real urban scenario with straight and curved roads, multiple lanes, intersections, and roundabouts is modeled and the proposed approach is validated. As a result of the proposed approaches, door-to-door global continuous-curvature paths are generated considering the shortest traveled distance.


Title: Information Based Mobile Sensor Planning for Source Term Estimation of a Non-Continuous Atmospheric Release
Abstract: Ahstract- This paper presents a method to estimate the original location and the mass of an instantaneous release of hazardous material into the atmosphere. It is formulated as an inverse problem, where concentration observations from a mobile sensor are fused with meteorological information and a Gaussian puff dispersion model to characterise the source. Bayes' theorem is used to estimate the parameters of the release taking into account the uncertainty that exists in the dispersion parameters and meteorological variables. An information based reward is used to guide an unmanned aerial vehicle equipped with a chemical sensor to the expected most informative measurement locations. Simulation results compare the performance between a single mobile sensor with various amounts of static sensors.


Title: Deep Lidar CNN to Understand the Dynamics of Moving Vehicles
Abstract: Perception technologies in Autonomous Driving are experiencing their golden age due to the advances in Deep Learning. Yet, most of these systems rely on the semantically rich information of RGB images. Deep Learning solutions applied to the data of other sensors typically mounted on autonomous cars (e.g. lidars or radars) are not explored much. In this paper we propose a novel solution to understand the dynamics of moving vehicles of the scene from only lidar information. The main challenge of this problem stems from the fact that we need to disambiguate the proprio-motion of the “observer” vehicle from that of the external “observed” vehicles. For this purpose, we devise a CNN architecture which at testing time is fed with pairs of consecutive lidar scans. However, in order to properly learn the parameters of this network, during training we introduce a series of so-called pretext tasks which also leverage on image data. These tasks include semantic information about vehicleness and a novel lidar-flow feature which combines standard image-based optical flow with lidar scans. We obtain very promising results and show that including distilled image information only during training, allows improving the inference results of the network at test time, even when image data is no longer used.


Title: Joint Long-Term Prediction of Human Motion Using a Planning-Based Social Force Approach
Abstract: The ability to perceive and predict future positions of dynamic objects is essential for mobile robots and intelligent vehicles in dynamic environments. In this paper, we present a novel planning-based approach for long-term human motion prediction that accounts for local interactions and can accurately predict joint motion of multiple agents. Long-term predictions are handled using an MDP formulation that computes a set of stochastic motion policies. To obtain distributions over future motion trajectories, we sample the policies with a weighted random walk algorithm in which each person is locally influenced by social forces from other nearby agents. Unlike related work, the algorithm is environment-aware, can account for individual agent velocities, requires no training phase and makes joint predictions for multiple agents. Experiments in simulation and with real data show that our method makes more accurate predictions than two state-of-the-art methods in terms of probabilistic and geometrical performance measures.


Title: Robust and Precise Vehicle Localization Based on Multi-Sensor Fusion in Diverse City Scenes
Abstract: We present a robust and precise localization system that achieves centimeter-level localization accuracy in disparate city scenes. Our system adaptively uses information from complementary sensors such as GNSS, LiDAR, and IMU to achieve high localization accuracy and resilience in challenging scenes, such as urban downtown, highways, and tunnels. Rather than relying only on LiDAR intensity or 3D geometry, we make innovative use of LiDAR intensity and altitude cues to significantly improve localization system accuracy and robustness. Our GNSS RTK module utilizes the help of the multi-sensor fusion framework and achieves a better ambiguity resolution success rate. An error-state Kalman filter is applied to fuse the localization measurements from different sources with novel uncertainty estimation. We validate, in detail, the effectiveness of our approaches, achieving 5-10cm RMS accuracy and outperforming previous state-of-the-art systems. Importantly, our system, while deployed in a large autonomous driving fleet, made our vehicles fully autonomous in crowded city streets despite road construction that occurred from time to time. A dataset including more than 60 km real traffic driving in various urban roads is used to comprehensively test our system.


Title: Safe Distributed Lane Change Maneuvers for Multiple Autonomous Vehicles Using Buffered Input Cells
Abstract: This paper introduces the Buffered Input Cell as a reciprocal collision avoidance method for multiple vehicles with high-order linear dynamics, extending recently proposed methods based on the Buffered Voronoi Cell [1] and generalized Voronoi diagrams [2]. We prove that if each vehicle's control input remains in its Buffered Input Cell at each time step, collisions will be avoided indefinitely. The method is fast, reactive, and only requires that each vehicle measures the relative position of neighboring vehicles. We incorporate this collision avoidance method as one layer of a complete lane change control stack for autonomous cars in a freeway driving scenario. The lane change control stack comprises a decision-making layer, a trajectory planning layer, a trajectory following feedback controller, and the Buffered Input Cell for collision avoidance. We show in simulations that collisions are avoided with multiple vehicles simultaneously changing lanes on a freeway. We also show in simulations that autonomous cars using the BIC method effectively avoid collisions with an aggressive human-driven car.


Title: Deep Predictive Models for Collision Risk Assessment in Autonomous Driving
Abstract: In this paper, we investigate a predictive approach for collision risk assessment in autonomous and assisted driving. A deep predictive model is trained to anticipate imminent accidents from traditional video streams. In particular, the model learns to identify cues in RGB images that are predictive of hazardous upcoming situations. In contrast to previous work, our approach incorporates (a) temporal information during decision making, (b) multi-modal information about the environment, as well as the proprioceptive state and steering actions of the controlled vehicle, and (c) information about the uncertainty inherent to the task. To this end, we discuss Deep Predictive Models and present an implementation using a Bayesian Convolutional LSTM. Experiments in a simple simulation environment show that the approach can learn to predict impending accidents with reasonable accuracy, especially when multiple cameras are used as input sources.


Title: End-to-End Driving Via Conditional Imitation Learning
Abstract: Deep networks trained on demonstrations of human driving have learned to follow roads and avoid obstacles. However, driving policies trained via imitation learning cannot be controlled at test time. A vehicle trained end-to-end to imitate an expert cannot be guided to take a specific turn at an upcoming intersection. This limits the utility of such systems. We propose to condition imitation learning on high-level command input. At test time, the learned driving policy functions as a chauffeur that handles sensorimotor coordination but continues to respond to navigational commands. We evaluate different architectures for conditional imitation learning in vision-based driving. We conduct experiments in realistic three-dimensional simulations of urban driving and on a 1/5 scale robotic truck that is trained to drive in a residential area. Both systems drive based on visual input yet remain responsive to high-level navigational commands.


Title: Predicting Ego-Vehicle Paths from Environmental Observations with a Deep Neural Network
Abstract: Advanced driver assistance systems allow for increasing user comfort and safety by sensing the environment and anticipating upcoming hazards. Often, this requires to accurately predict how situations will change. Recent approaches make simplifying assumptions on the predictive model of the Ego-Vehicle motion or assume prior knowledge, such as road topologies, to be available. However, in many urban areas this assumption is not satisfied. Furthermore, temporary changes (e.g. construction areas, vehicles parked on the street) are not considered by such models. Since many cars observe the environment with several different sensors, predictive models can benefit from them by considering environmental properties. In this work, we present an approach for an Ego-Vehicle path prediction from such sensor measurements of the static vehicle environment. Besides proposing a learned model for predicting the driver's multi-modal future path as a grid-based prediction, we derive an approach for extracting paths from it. In driver assistance systems both can be used to solve varying assistance tasks. The proposed approach is evaluated on real driving data and outperforms several baseline approaches.


Title: Learning Steering Bounds for Parallel Autonomous Systems
Abstract: Deep learning has been successfully applied to “end-to-end” learning of the autonomous driving task, where a deep neural network learns to predict steering control commands from camera data input. However, the learned representations do not support higher-level decision making required for autonomous navigation, nor the uncertainty estimates required for parallel autonomy, where vehicle control is shared between human and robot. This paper tackles the problem of learning a representation to predict a continuous control probability distribution, and thus steering control options and bounds for those options, which can be used for autonomous navigation. Each mode of the distribution encodes a possible macro-action that the system could execute at that instant, and the covariances of the modes place bounds on safe steering control values. Our approach has the added advantage of being trained on unlabeled data collected from inexpensive cameras. The deep neural network based algorithm generates a probability distribution over the space of steering angles, from which we leverage Variational Bayesian methods to extract a mixture model and compute the different possible actions in the environment. A bound, which the autonomous vehicle must respect in our parallel autonomy setting, is then computed for each of these actions. We evaluate our approach on a challenging dataset containing a wide variety of driving conditions, and show that our algorithm is capable of parameterizing Gaussian Mixture Models for possible actions, and extract steering bounds with a mean error of only 2 degrees. Additionally, we demonstrate our system working on a full scale autonomous vehicle and evaluate its ability to successful handle various different parallel autonomy situations.


Title: End to End Learning of Spiking Neural Network Based on R-STDP for a Lane Keeping Vehicle
Abstract: Learning-based methods have demonstrated clear advantages in controlling robot tasks, such as the information fusion abilities, strong robustness, and high accuracy. Meanwhile, the on-board systems of robots have limited computation and energy resources, which are contradictory with state-of-the-art learning approaches. They are either too lightweight to solve complex problems or too heavyweight to be used for mobile applications. On the other hand, training spiking neural networks (SNNs) with biological plausibility has great potentials of performing fast computation and energy efficiency. However, the lack of effective learning rules for SNNs impedes their wide usage in mobile robot applications. This paper addresses the problem by introducing an end to end learning approach of spiking neural networks for a lane keeping vehicle. We consider the reward-modulated spike-timing-dependent-plasticity (R-STDP) as a promising solution in training SNNs, since it combines the advantages of both reinforcement learning and the well-known STDP. We test our approach in three scenarios that a Pioneer robot is controlled to keep lanes based on an SNN. Specifically, the lane information is encoded by the event data from a neuromorphic vision sensor. The SNN is constructed using R-STDP synapses in an all-to-all fashion. We demonstrate the advantages of our approach in terms of the lateral localization accuracy by comparing with other state-of-the-art learning algorithms based on SNNs.


Title: Heterogeneous Multi-Robot System for Exploration and Strategic Water Sampling
Abstract: Physical sampling of water for off-site analysis is necessary for many applications like monitoring the quality of drinking water in reservoirs, understanding marine ecosystems, and measuring contamination levels in fresh-water systems. In this paper, the focus is on algorithms for efficient measurement and sampling using a multi-robot, data-driven, water-sampling behavior, where autonomous surface vehicles plan and execute water sampling using the chlorophyll density as a cue for plankton-rich water samples. We use two Autonomous Surface Vehicles (ASVs), one equipped with a water quality sensor and the other equipped with a water-sampling apparatus. The ASV with the sensor acts as an explorer, measuring and building a spatial map of chlorophyll density in the given region of interest. The ASV equipped with the water sampling apparatus makes decisions in real time on where to sample the water based on the suggestions made by the explorer robot. We evaluate the system in the context of measuring chlorophyll distributions. We do this both in simulation based on real geophysical data from MODIS measurements, and on real robots in a water reservoir. We demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed approach in several ways including in terms of mean error in the interpolated data as a function of distance traveled.


Title: Robust Model-Aided Inertial Localization for Autonomous Underwater Vehicles
Abstract: This paper presents a manifold based Unscented Kalman Filter that applies a novel strategy for inertial, model-aiding and Acoustic Doppler Current Profiler (ADCP) measurement incorporation. The filter is capable of observing and utilizing the Earth rotation for heading estimation with a tactical grade IMU, and utilizes information from the vehicle model during DVL drop outs. The drag and thrust model-aiding accounts for the correlated nature of vehicle model parameter error by applying them as states in the filter. ADCP-aiding provides further information for the model-aiding in the case of DVL bottom-lock loss. Additionally this work was implemented using the MTK and ROCK framework in C++, and is capable of running in real-time on computing available on the FlatFish AUV. The IMU biases are estimated in a fully coupled approach in the navigation filter. Heading convergence is shown on a real-world data set. Further experiments show that the filter is capable of consistent positioning, and data denial validates the method for DVL dropouts due to very low or high altitude scenarios.


Title: Preliminary Evaluation of Cooperative Navigation of Underwater Vehicles without a DVL Utilizing a Dynamic Process Model
Abstract: This paper reports a preliminary study for use of a fully dynamic vehicle process model in combined underwater communication and navigation (cooperative navigation) of underwater vehicles equipped with an acoustic modem, attitude, and depth sensors, but lacking a Doppler velocity log (DVL), and a surface vehicle equipped with an acoustic modem and GPS. We report both simulation and at-sea experimental trials with the JHU Iver3 autonomous underwater vehicle (AUV). The case of underwater vehicle navigation without a DVL is of interest in several use-cases including (a) small and low-cost underwater vehicles for which DVLs may be impractical or infeasible due to their size and cost and (b) for missions in which the vehicle's altitude above the sea floor (or depth beneath overhead ice) exceeds the DVL acoustic bottom-lock range. To the best of our knowledge, all previous studies on cooperative navigation have reported use of a kinematic process model, which works well in the presence of frequent, high-accuracy velocity measurements, as is the case when the vehicle is equipped with a DVL. This preliminary study suggests that the dynamical process model may offer a significant advantage over the purely kinematic model in the absence of frequent, high-accuracy velocity measurements, as is the case when the submerged vehicle is not equipped with a DVL.


Title: Online System Identification and Calibration of Dynamic Models for Autonomous Ground Vehicles
Abstract: This paper is concerned with system identification and the calibration of parameters of dynamic models used in different robotic platforms. A constant time algorithm has been developed in order to automatically calibrate the parameters of a high-fidelity dynamical model for a robotic platform. The presented method is capable of choosing informative motion segments in order to calibrate model parameters in constant time while also calculating a confidence level on each estimated parameter. Simulations and experiments with a ⅛ th scale four wheel drive vehicle are performed to calibrate two of the parameters of test vehicle which demonstrate the accuracy and efficiency of the approach.


Title: Dynamic Modeling and Identification of an Heterogeneously Actuated Underwater Manipulator Arm
Abstract: This paper deals with the dynamic modeling and identification of an electrically driven underwater robot manipulator. The proposed study includes the dynamic modeling of the actuators of the arm as well as the identification of the parameters of the model. The proposed method deals with the specific case of heterogeneously actuated arms, namely arms with actuators behaving differently for each joint, being considered at the kinematic level. Indeed, we show how to estimate the arms parameters when some of their revolute joints are directly actuated by geared motors, while the others are actuated by linear actuators. A minimum set of identifiable parameters is determined, and adequate excitation trajectories are generated and used in the identification procedure. Realtime experimental validation on the manipulator arms of Ifremer's HROV (Hybrid Remotely Operated Vehicle) Ariane underwater vehicle demonstrates that the proposed method improves the estimation of the dynamic model.


Title: A Scalable Multi-Robot Task Allocation Algorithm
Abstract: In modern warehouses, robots are being deployed to perform complex tasks such as fetching a set of objects from various locations in a warehouse to a docking station. This requires a careful task allocation along with route planning such that the total distance traveled (cost) is minimized. The number of tasks that can be performed by a robot on a single route depends on the maximum capacity of the robot and the combined weight of the objects it picks on the route. This task allocation problem is an instance of the Capacity-constrained Vehicle Routing Problem (CVRP), which is known to be NP-hard. Although, there exist a number of heuristics that provide near-optimal solutions to a CVRP instance, they do not scale well with the task size (number of nodes). In this paper, we present a heuristic, called nearest-neighbor based Clustering And Routing (nCAR), which has better execution time compared to the state-of-the-art heuristics. Also, our heuristic reduces cost of the solutions when there are a large number of nodes. We compare the performance of nCAR with the Google OR-Tools and found a speedup of 6 in runtime when task size is 2000. Though OR-Tools provides a low-cost solution for small number of tasks, it's execution time and number of routes is 1.5 times that of nCAR.


Title: Autonomous Control of the Interacting-BoomCopter UAV for Remote Sensor Mounting
Abstract: This paper presents a novel approach for autonomously mounting a sensor package on a vertical surface with an unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV). The Interacting-BoomCopter (I-BC) UAV uses an on-board webcam and computer along with a horizontally-mounted reversible propeller on its front boom to autonomously perform the aerial manipulation task. An overview of the vehicle design is presented along with the image processing algorithms used for target tracking, and the implementation of an extended finite state machine (EFSM) for carrying out the high-level autonomous control. The effectiveness of the autonomous control strategy and I-BC platform are examined through the performance of several autonomous sensor mounting flight tests.


Title: Asymmetric Collaborative Bar Stabilization Tethered to Two Heterogeneous Aerial Vehicles
Abstract: We consider a system composed of a bar tethered to two unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs), where the cables behave as rigid links under tensile forces, and with the control objective of stabilizing the bar's pose around a desired pose. Each UAV is equipped with a PID control law, and we verify that the bar's motion is decomposable into three decoupled motions, namely a longitudinal, a lateral and a vertical. We then provide relations between the UAV s' gains, which, if satisfied, allows us to decompose each of those motions into two cascaded motions; the latter relations between the UAV s' gains are found so as to counteract the system asymmetries, such as the different cable lengths and the different UAV s' weights. Finally, we provide conditions, based on the system's physical parameters, that describe good and bad types of asymmetries. We present experiments that demonstrate the stabilization of the bar's pose.


Title: First Autonomous Multi-Room Exploration with an Insect-Inspired Flapping Wing Vehicle
Abstract: One of the emerging tasks for Micro Air Vehicles (MAVs) is autonomous indoor navigation. While commonly employed platforms for such tasks are micro-quadrotors, insect-inspired flapping wing MAVs can offer many advantages, such as being inherently safe due to their low inertia, reciprocating wings bouncing of objects or potentially lower noise levels compared to rotary wings. Here, we present the first flapping wing MAV to perform an autonomous multi-room exploration task. Equipped with an on-board autopilot and a 4 g stereo vision system, the DelFly Explorer succeeded in combining the two most common tasks of an autonomous indoor exploration mission: room exploration and door passage. During the room exploration, the vehicle uses stereo-vision based droplet algorithm to avoid and navigate along the walls and obstacles. Simultaneously, it is running a newly developed monocular color based Snake-gate algorithm to locate doors. A successful detection triggers the heading-based door passage algorithm. In the real-world test, the vehicle could successfully navigate, multiple times in a row, between two rooms separated by a corridor, demonstrating the potential of flapping wing vehicles for autonomous exploration tasks.


Title: Accelerated Testing and Evaluation of Autonomous Vehicles via Imitation Learning
Abstract: In this paper, we investigate the use of surrogate agents to accelerate test scenario generation for autonomous vehicles. Our goal is to train the surrogate to replicate the true performance modes of the system. We create these surrogates by utilizing imitation learning with deep neural networks. By using imitator surrogates in place of the true agent, we are capable of predicting mission performance more quickly, gaining greater throughput for simulation-based testing. We demonstrate that using on-line imitation learning with Dataset Aggregation (DAgger) can not only correctly encode a policy that executes a complex mission, but can also encode multiple different behavioral modes. To improve performance for the target vehicle and mission, we manipulate the training set during each iteration to remove samples which do not contribute to the final policy. We call this approach Quantile-DAgger (Q-DAgger) and demonstrate its ability to replicate the behaviors of an autonomous vehicle in a collision avoidance scenario.


Title: Autonomous Feature Tracing and Adaptive Sampling in Real-World Underwater Environments
Abstract: Applications of robots for gathering data in underwater environments has been limited due to the challenges posed by the medium. We have developed a miniature, agile, easy to carry and deploy Autonomous Underwater Vehicle (AUV) equipped with a suite of sensors for underwater environmental sensing. We have also developed a compact high resolution fast temperature sensing module for the AUV for microstructure and turbulence measurements in water bodies. In this paper, we describe a number of algorithms and subsystems of the AUV that enable autonomous real-world operation, and present the data gathered in an experimental campaign in collaboration with limnologists. We demonstrate adaptive sampling missions where the AUV could autonomously locate a zone of interest and adapt its trajectory to stay in it. Further, it could execute specific behaviors to accommodate special sensing requirements necessary to enhance the quality of the data collected. In these missions, the AUV could autonomously trace a feature and capture horizontal variation in various quantities, including turbidity and temperature fluctuations, allowing limnologists to study lake phenomena in an additional dimension.


Title: Navigating Congested Environments with Risk Level Sets
Abstract: In this paper, we address the problem of navigating in a cluttered environment by introducing a congestion cost that maps the density and motion of objects to an occupancy risk. We propose that an agent can choose a “risk level set” from this cost function and construct a planning space from this set. In choosing different levels of risk, the agent adjusts its interactions with the other agents. From the assumption that agents are self-preserving, we show that any agent planning within their risk level set will avoid collisions with other agents. We then present an application of planning with risk level sets in the framework of an autonomous vehicle driving along a highway. Using the risk level sets, the agent can determine safe zones when planning a sequence of lane changes. Through simulations in Matlab, we demonstrate how the choice of risk threshold manifests as aggressive or conservative behavior.


Title: Algorithms for Routing of Unmanned Aerial Vehicles with Mobile Recharging Stations
Abstract: We study the problem of finding a tour for an energy-limited Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV) to visit a set of sites in the least amount of time. We envision scenarios where the UAV can be recharged along the way either by landing on stationary recharging stations or on Unmanned Ground Vehicles (UGVs) acting as mobile recharging stations. This leads to a new variant of the Traveling Salesperson Problem (TSP). We present an algorithm that finds not only the order in which to visit the sites but also when and where to land on the charging stations to recharge. Our algorithm plans tours for the UGVs as well as determines best locations to place stationary charging stations. While the problems we study are NP-Hard, we present a practical solution using Generalized TSP that finds the optimal solution. If the UGVs are slower, the algorithm also finds the minimum number of UGVs required to support the UAV mission such that the UAV is not required to wait for the UGV. Our simulation results show that the running time is acceptable for reasonably sized instances.


Title: Pedestrian Prediction by Planning Using Deep Neural Networks
Abstract: Accurate traffic participant prediction is the prerequisite for collision avoidance of autonomous vehicles. In this work, we propose to predict pedestrians using goal-directed planning. For this, we infer a mixture density function for possible destinations. We use these destinations as the goal states of a planning stage that performs motion prediction based on common behavior patterns. The patterns are learned by a fully convolutional network operating on maps of the environment. We show that this entire system can be modeled as one monolithic neural network and trained via inverse reinforcement learning. Experimental validation on real world data shows the system's ability to predict both, destinations and trajectories accurately.


Title: Asynchronous Multi-Sensor Fusion for 3D Mapping and Localization
Abstract: In this paper, we address the problem of optimally fusing multiple heterogeneous and asynchronous sensors for use in 3D mapping and localization of autonomous vehicles. To this end, based on the factor graph-based optimization framework, we design a modular sensor-fusion system that allows for efficient and accurate incorporation of multiple navigation sensors operating at different sampling rates. In particular, we develop a general method of out-of-sequence (asynchronous) measurement alignment to incorporate heterogeneous sensors into a factor graph for mapping and localization in 3D, without requiring the addition of new graph nodes, thus allowing the graph to have an overall reduced complexity. The proposed sensor-fusion system is validated on a real-world experimental dataset, in which the asynchronous-measurement alignment is shown to have an improved performance when compared to a naive approach without alignment.


Title: Localization Under Topological Uncertainty for Lane Identification of Autonomous Vehicles
Abstract: Autonomous vehicles (AVs) require accurate metric and topological location estimates for safe, effective navigation and decision-making. Although many high-definition (HD) roadmaps exist, they are not always accurate since public roads are dynamic, shaped unpredictably by both human activity and nature. Thus, AVs must be able to handle situations in which the topology specified by the map does not agree with reality. We present the Variable Structure Multiple Hidden Markov Model (VSM-HMM) as a framework for localizing in the presence of topological uncertainty, and demonstrate its effectiveness on an AV where lane membership is modeled as a topological localization process. VSM-HMMs use a dynamic set of HMMs to simultaneously reason about location within a set of most likely current topologies and therefore may also be applied to topological structure estimation as well as AV lane estimation. In addition, we present an extension to the Earth Mover's Distance which allows uncertainty to be taken into account when computing the distance between belief distributions on simplices of arbitrary relative sizes.


Title: Stabilizing Traffic with Autonomous Vehicles
Abstract: Autonomous vehicles promise safer roads, energy savings, and more efficient use of existing infrastructure, among many other benefits. Although the effect of autonomous vehicles has been studied in the limits (near-zero or full penetration), the transition range requires new formulations, mathematical modeling, and control analysis. In this article, we study the ability of small numbers of autonomous vehicles to stabilize a single-lane system of human-driven vehicles. We formalize the problem in terms of linear string stability, derive optimality conditions from frequency-domain analysis, and pose the resulting nonlinear optimization problem. In particular, we introduce two conditions which simultaneously stabilize traffic while imposing a safety constraint on the autonomous vehicle and limiting degradation of performance. With this optimal linear controller in a system with typical human driver behavior, we can numerically determine that only a 6% uniform penetration of autonomously controlled vehicles (i.e. one per string of up to 16 human-driven vehicles) is necessary to stabilize traffic across all traffic conditions.


Title: Data-Driven Model Predictive Control of Autonomous Mobility-on-Demand Systems
Abstract: The goal of this paper is to present an end-to-end, data-driven framework to control Autonomous Mobility-on-Demand systems (AMoD, i.e. fleets of self-driving vehicles). We first model the AMoD system using a time-expanded network, and present a formulation that computes the optimal rebalancing strategy (i.e., preemptive repositioning) and the minimum feasible fleet size for a given travel demand. Then, we adapt this formulation to devise a Model Predictive Control (MPC) algorithm that leverages short-term demand forecasts based on historical data to compute rebalancing strategies. Using simulations based on real customer data from DiDi Chuxing, we test the end-to-end performance of this controller with a state-of-the-art LSTM neural network to predict customer demand: we show that this approach scales very well for large systems (indeed, the computational complexity of the MPC algorithm does not depend on the number of customers and of vehicles in the system) and outperforms state-of-the-art rebalancing strategies by reducing the mean customer wait time by up to to 89.6 %.


Title: Automated Process for Incorporating Drivable Path into Real-Time Semantic Segmentation
Abstract: Vision systems are widely used in autonomous vehicle systems due to the rich information that camera sensors provide of the surrounding environment. This paper presents an automatic algorithm to obtain the drivable path of a vehicle operating in urban roads with or without clear lane markings. The developed system projects trajectories obtained during human operation of the vehicle and utilizes these to generate automatic labels for training a semantic based path prediction model. The system segments an urban scenario into 13 categories including vehicles, pedestrian, undrivable road, other categories relevant to urban roads, and a new class for a path proposal. The drivable path information is essential particularly in unstructured scenarios, and is critical for an intelligent vehicle system to make sound driving decisions. The path proposal category is a car-width drivable lane estimated to be safe to drive for the vehicle under consideration. The data collection, model training and inference process requires only images from a monocular camera and odometry from a low-cost IMU combined with a wheel encoder. The algorithm has been successfully demonstrated on the Sydney University campus, which is a challenging environment without clear road markings. The algorithm was demonstrated to run in real-time, proving its applicability for intelligent vehicles.


Title: Design, Modeling, and Analysis of Inductive Resonant Coupling Wireless Power Transfer for Micro Aerial Vehicles (MAVs)
Abstract: This paper presents the design, modeling, analysis, and experimental validation of an inductive resonant wireless power transfer (WPT) system to power a micro aerial vehicle (MAV). Using WPT, in general, enables longer flight times, virtually eliminates the need for batteries, and minimizes down time for recharging or replacing batteries. The proposed WPT system consists of a transmit coil, which can either be fixed to ground or placed on a mobile platform, and a receive coil carried by the MAV. The details of the WPT circuit design are presented. A power-transfer model is developed for the two-coil system, where the model is used to select suitable coil geometries to maximize the power received by the MAV for hovering. Analysis, simulation, and experimental results are presented to demonstrate the effectiveness of the WPT circuitry. Finally, a wirelessly powered MAV that hovers above the transmit coil is demonstrated in a laboratory setting.


Title: Active Image-Based Modeling with a Toy Drone
Abstract: Image-based modeling techniques [1]-[3] can now generate photo-realistic 3D models from images. But it is up to users to provide high quality images with good coverage and view overlap, which makes the data capturing process tedious and time consuming. We seek to automate data capturing for image-based modeling. The core of our system is an iterative linear method to solve the multi-view stereo (MVS) problem quickly and plan the Next-Best-View (NBV) effectively. Our fast MVS algorithm enables online model reconstruction and quality assessment to determine the NBVs on the fly. We test our system with a toy unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV) in simulated, indoor and outdoor experiments. Results show that our system improves the efficiency of data acquisition and ensures the completeness of the final model.


Title: Intelligent Shipwreck Search Using Autonomous Underwater Vehicles
Abstract: This paper presents an autonomous robot system that is designed to autonomously search for and geo-localize potential underwater archaeological sites. The system, based on Autonomous Underwater Vehicles, invokes a multi-step pipeline. First, the AUV constructs a high altitude scan over a large area to collect low-resolution side scan sonar data. Second, image processing software is employed to automatically detect and identify potential sites of interest. Third, a ranking algorithm assigns importance scores to each site. Fourth, an AUV path planner is used to plan a time-limited path that visits sites with a high importance at a low altitude to acquire high-resolution sonar data. Last, the AUV is deployed to follow this path. This system was implemented and evaluated during an archaeological survey located along the coast of Malta. These experiments demonstrated that the system is able to identify valuable archaeological sites accurately and efficiently in a large previously unsurveyed area. Also, the planned missions led to the discovery of a historical plane wreck whose location was previously unknown.


Title: A Robust Model Predictive Control Approach for Autonomous Underwater Vehicles Operating in a Constrained Workspace
Abstract: This paper presents a novel Nonlinear Model Predictive Control (NMPC) scheme for underwater robotic vehicles operating in a constrained workspace including static obstacles. The purpose of the controller is to guide the vehicle towards specific way points. Various limitations such as: obstacles, workspace boundary, thruster saturation and predefined desired upper bound of the vehicle velocity are captured as state and input constraints and are guaranteed during the control design. The proposed scheme incorporates the full dynamics of the vehicle in which the ocean currents are also involved. Hence, the control inputs calculated by the proposed scheme are formulated in a way that the vehicle will exploit the ocean currents, when these are in favor of the way-point tracking mission which results in reduced energy consumption by the thrusters. The performance of the proposed control strategy is experimentally verified using a 4 Degrees of Freedom (DoF) underwater robotic vehicle inside a constrained test tank with obstacles.


Title: Design, Modeling, and Nonlinear Model Predictive Tracking Control of a Novel Autonomous Surface Vehicle
Abstract: In this paper, we present the design, modeling, and real-time nonlinear model predictive control (NMPC) of an autonomous robotic boat. The robot is easy to manufacture, highly maneuverable, and capable of accurate trajectory tracking in both indoor and outdoor environments. In particular, a cross type four-thruster configuration is proposed for the robotic boat to produce efficient holonomic motions. The robot prototype is rapidly 3D-printed and then sealed by adhering several layers of fiberglass. To achieve accurate tracking control, we formulate an NMPC strategy for the four-control-input boat with control input constraints, where the nonlinear dynamic model includes a Coriolis and centripetal matrix, the hydrodynamic added mass, and damping. By integrating “GPS” modules and an inertial measurement unit (IMU) into the robot, we demonstrate accurate trajectory tracking of the robotic boat along preplanned paths in both a swimming pool and a natural river. Furthermore, the code generation strategy employed in our paper yields a two order of magnitude improvement in the run time of the NMPC algorithm compared to similar systems. The robot is designed to form the basis for surface swarm robotics testbeds, on which collective algorithms for surface transportation and self-assembly of dynamic floating infrastructures can be assessed.


Title: Real-Time Underwater 3D Reconstruction Using Global Context and Active Labeling
Abstract: In this work we develop a novel framework that enables the real-time 3D reconstruction of underwater environments using features from 2D sonar images. Due to noisy and low-resolution imagery as compared with standard cameras, automatic feature extractors for sonar images are not reliable in many scenarios. Thus, a human often needs to hand-select features in sonar imagery for environment reconstructions. Given the high data capture rates of standard imaging sonars (on the order of 20Hz), hand-annotating the features in every frame cannot be done in real-time. To address this we use a Convolutional Neural Network (CNN) that analyzes incoming imagery in real-time and proposes only a small subset of high-quality frames to the user for feature annotation. We demonstrate that our approach provides real-time reconstruction capability without loss in classification performance on datasets captured onboard our underwater vehicle while operating in a variety of environments.


Title: Gaussian Process Adaptive Sampling Using the Cross-Entropy Method for Environmental Sensing and Monitoring
Abstract: In this paper, we focus on adaptive sampling on a Gaussian Processes (GP) using the receding-horizon Cross-Entropy (CE) trajectory optimization. Specifically, we employ the GP upper confidence bound (GP-UCB) as the optimization criteria to adaptively plan sampling paths that balance the exploitation-exploration trade-off. Path planning at the initial stage focuses on exploring and learning a model of the environment, and later, on exploiting the learned model to focus sampling around regions that exhibit extreme sensory measurements and much higher spatial variability, denoted as the Region of Interest (ROI). The integration of the CE trajectory optimization allows the sampling density to be dynamically adjusted based on the latest sensory measurements, thus providing an efficient sampling strategy for sensing and localizing the ROI. We demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed method in exploring simulated scalar fields with single or multiple ROIs. Field experiments with an Unmanned Surface Vehicle (USV) in a coastal bathymetry mapping mission validate the approach's capability in quickly exploring and mapping the given area, and then focusing and increasing the sampling density around the deepest region, as a surrogate for e.g. the extremal concentration of a pollutant in the environment.


Title: Complex Urban LiDAR Data Set
Abstract: This paper presents a Light Detection and Ranging (LiDAR) data set that targets complex urban environments. Urban environments with high-rise buildings and congested traffic pose a significant challenge for many robotics applications. The presented data set is unique in the sense it is able to capture the genuine features of an urban environment (e.g. metropolitan areas, large building complexes and underground parking lots). Data of two-dimensional (2D) and three-dimensional (3D) LiDAR, which are typical types of LiDAR sensors, are provided in the data set. The two 16-ray 3D LiDARs are tilted on both sides for maximal coverage. One 2D LiDAR faces backward while the other faces forwards to collect data of roads and buildings, respectively. Raw sensor data from Fiber Optic Gyro (FOG), Inertial Measurement Unit (IMU), and the Global Positioning System (GPS) are presented in a file format for vehicle pose estimation. The pose information of the vehicle estimated at 100 Hz is also presented after applying the graph simultaneous localization and mapping (SLAM) algorithm. For the convenience of development, the file player and data viewer in Robot Operating System (ROS) environment were also released via the web page. The full data sets are available at: http://irap.kaist.ac.kr/dataset. In this website, 3D preview of each data set is provided using WebGL.


Title: Distance-Based Multi-Robot Coordination on Pocket Drones
Abstract: We present a fully realised system illustrating decentralised coordination on Micro Aerial Vehicles (MAV) or pocket drones, based on distance information. This entails the development of an ultra light hardware solution to determine the distances between the drones and also the development of a model to learn good control policies. The model we present is a combination of a recurrent neural network and a Deep Q-Learning Network (DQN). The recurrent network provides bearing information to the DQN. The DQN itself is responsible for choosing movement actions to avoid collisions and to reach a desired position. Overall we are able provide a complete system which is capable of letting multiple drones navigate in a confined space only based on UWB-distance information and velocity input. We tackle the problem of neural networks and real world sensor noise, by combining the network with a particle filter and show that the combination outperforms the traditional particle filter in terms of converge speed and robustness. A video is available at: https://youtu.be/yj6QqhOzpok.


Title: Optimized Environment Exploration for Autonomous Underwater Vehicles
Abstract: Achieving full autonomous robotic environment exploration in the underwater domain is very challenging, mainly due to noisy acoustic sensors, high localization error, control disturbances of the water and lack of accurate underwater maps. In this work we present a robotic exploration algorithm for underwater vehicles that does not rely on prior information about the environment. Our method has been greatly influenced by many robotic exploration, view planning and path planning algorithms. The proposed method constitutes a significant improvement over our previous work [1]: Firstly, we refine our exploration approach to improve robustness; Secondly, we propose an alternative map representation based on the quadtree data structure that allows different relevant queries to be performed efficiently, reducing the computational cost of the viewpoint generation process; Thirdly, we present an algorithm that is capable of generating consistent maps even when noisy sonar data is used. The aforementioned contributions have increased the reliability of the algorithm, allowing new real experiments performed in artificial structures but also in more challenging natural environments, from which we provide a 3D reconstruction to show that with this algorithm full optical coverage is obtained.


Title: Learning to Race Through Coordinate Descent Bayesian Optimisation
Abstract: In the automation of many kinds of processes, the observable outcome can often be described as the combined effect of an entire sequence of actions, or controls, applied throughout the process execution. In these cases, strategies to optimise control policies for individual stages of the process are not applicable, and instead the whole policy needs to be optimised at once. On the other hand, the cost to evaluate the policy's performance might also be high, being desirable that a solution can be found with as few interactions as possible with the real system. We consider the problem of optimising control policies to allow a robot to complete a given race track within a minimum amount of time. We assume that the robot has no prior information about the track or its own dynamical model, just an initial valid driving example. Localisation is only applied to monitor the robot and to provide an indication of its position along the track's centre axis. With that in mind, we propose a method for finding a policy that minimises the time per lap while keeping the vehicle on the track using a Bayesian optimisation (BO) approach over a reproducing kernel Hilbert space. We apply an algorithm to search more efficiently over high-dimensional policy-parameter spaces with BO, by iterating over each dimension individually, in a sequential coordinate descent-like scheme. Experiments demonstrate the performance of the algorithm against other methods in a simulated car racing environment.


Title: Long-Term Visual Localization Using Semantically Segmented Images
Abstract: Robust cross-seasonal localization is one of the major challenges in long-term visual navigation of autonomous vehicles. In this paper, we exploit recent advances in semantic segmentation of images, i.e., where each pixel is assigned a label related to the type of object it represents, to attack the problem of long-term visual localization. We show that semantically labeled 3D point maps of the environment, together with semantically segmented images, can be efficiently used for vehicle localization without the need for detailed feature descriptors (SIFT, SURF, etc.), Thus, instead of depending on hand-crafted feature descriptors, we rely on the training of an image segmenter. The resulting map takes up much less storage space compared to a traditional descriptor based map. A particle filter based semantic localization solution is compared to one based on SIFT-features, and even with large seasonal variations over the year we perform on par with the larger and more descriptive SIFT-features, and are able to localize with an error below 1 m most of the time.


Title: Radiation Source Localization in GPS-Denied Environments Using Aerial Robots
Abstract: This paper details the system and methods developed to enable autonomous nuclear radiation source localization and mapping using aerial robots in GPS-denied environments. A Thallium-doped Cesium Iodide (CsI(Tl)) scintillator and a Silicon Photomultiplier are combined with custom-built electronics for counting and spectroscopy, and the provided radiation measurements are pose-annotated using visual-inertial localization enabling autonomous operation in GPS-denied environments. Provided this capability, a strategy for radioactive source localization, as well as active source search path planning was developed. The proposed method is motivated and accounts for the limited endurance of the vehicle, which entails a very small amount of dwell points, and the fact that GPS-denied localization implies varying uncertainty of the robot's position estimate. The complete system is evaluated in multiple experimental studies using a small aerial robot and a Cesium-137 radiation source. As shown, accurate radioactive source localization is achieved, enabling efficient radiation mapping of indoor GPS-denied environments.


Title: LineDrone Technology: Landing an Unmanned Aerial Vehicle on a Power Line
Abstract: This paper presents the design of a multirotor unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV) capable of landing semiautomatically on a power line while carrying a payload. The vehicle then rolls along the line to perform an inspection. Special attention is given to the vehicle's onboard vision system, which consists of a monocular camera and LiDAR used together to compute the pose of the vehicle relative to the power line. Landing assistance is provided to the pilot by a position-based visual controller that aligns and keeps the vehicle centered along the power line. The pilot remains in control of vertical and longitudinal movement during descent. The proposed approach was tested on a full-scale test line and shows promise for future applications of high value to the electric industry such as non-destructive testing of power transmission lines.


Title: Pseudo-bearing Measurements for Improved Localization of Radio Sources with Multirotor UAVs
Abstract: Localizing radio frequency (RF) sources is an important application for unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs), Localization is often carried out by estimating bearing to an RF source, which can be achieved by rotating a directional antenna in place. Multirotor UAVs are well-suited for this sensing modality because they can efficiently rotate in place. However, a full rotation from a single location is needed to account for scale factors affecting the directional antenna's measurements. Although easy to perform, these rotations tend to be slow and delay localization. In this paper, we equip a multirotor UAV with a directional antenna and an omnidirectional antenna. The omnidirectional antenna serves to normalize measurements made by the directional antenna, yielding “pseudo-bearing” measurements. These bearing-like measurements are less informative than bearing measurements but do not require a full rotation, leading to more measurements and faster localization. We validate the normalization with antenna theory and ground tests. Claims of improved localization are validated with simulations and flight tests on a multirotor UAV. Our setup significantly reduces localization time compared to a multirotor UAV equipped with only a directional antenna.


Title: Onboard State Dependent LQR for Agile Quadrotors
Abstract: State-of-the-art approaches in quadrotor control split the problem into multiple cascaded subproblems, exploiting the different time scales of the rotational and translational dynamics. They calculate a desired acceleration as input for a cascaded attitude controller but omit the attitude dynamics. These approaches use limits on the desired acceleration to maintain feasibility and robustness through the control cascade. We propose an implementation of an LQR controller, which: (I) is linearized depending on the quadrotor's state; (II) unifies the control of rotational and translational states; (III) handles time-varying system dynamics and control parameters. Our implementation is efficient enough to compute the full linearization and solution of the LQR at a minimum of 10 Hz on the vehicle using a common ARM processor. We show four successful experiments: (I) controlling at hover state with large disturbances; (II) tracking along a trajectory; (III) tracking along an infeasible trajectory; (IV) tracking along a trajectory with disturbances. All the experiments were done using only onboard visual inertial state estimation and LQR computation. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first implementation and evaluation of a state-dependent LQR capable of onboard computation while providing this amount of versatility and performance.


Title: Autonomous Fixed-Wing Aerobatics: From Theory to Flight
Abstract: Unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs) are increasingly being proposed for a wide range of applications. A promising new class of these vehicles, known as agile fixed-wing UAV s, is intended to bridge the gap between conventional fixed-wing aircraft, which can cover long distances efficiently, and rotorcraft, which are typically very maneuverable. This paper addresses the implementation of a controller for agile UAVs, beginning with a hardware-in-the-loop (HIL) simulator, followed by testing on a real platform, both implemented on the Pixhawk microcontroller. We replace the Xplane physics engine used in the standard Pixhawk HIL with our own in-house Matlab/Simulink high-fidelity simulation of an agile UA V. The HIL simulator is found to provide substantial advantages in the transition from pure simulation to experimental testing. Once the controller is integrated into the flight platform, flight tests are conducted, and the results of those tests are compared to those from the HIL simulation and those obtained from the pure simulation environment, for maneuvers including hover, aggressive turnaround, knife-edge, and rolling Harrier. The desired position and orientation time histories were successfully tracked with the proposed implementation, demonstrating the impressive autonomous maneuverability that can be achieved by this type of aircraft.


Title: Adaptive Attitude Control for a Tail-Sitter UAV with Single Thrust-Vectored Propeller
Abstract: Tail-sitter unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs) have gained extensive popularity in recent years due to their inherent advantages of both fixed wing and rotary wing UAVs. However, these advantages are accompanied with control challenges because of two different flight regimes and drastically changing dynamics during transition flights. This paper focuses on the design of a unified controller free from cumbersome controller switchings and applicable in all attitude range for a tail-sitter with single thrust-vectored propeller. To achieve this, both thrust vectoring model and full-regime aerodynamics model are built first, after which a complete attitude dynamics model of the tail-sitter is established utilizing the quaternion attitude description to avoid the singularity problem. An adaptive controller is then derived based on a simplified model using the Lyapunov stability theory with unknown system parameters identified online by forgetting factor recursive least square (FF-RLS) method. Flight experiments are conducted to demonstrate the feasibility and effectiveness of the proposed control scheme.


Title: Online Aerodynamic Model Identification on Small Fixed-Wing UAVs with Uncertain Flight Data
Abstract: This paper focuses on real-time estimation of the aerodynamic model parameters of small-scale fixed wing Unmanned Aerial Vehicles (UAVs) without the aid of wind-tunnel experiments, using exclusively flight data. The key tool of the following analysis centers around the principles of Total Least Squares estimation. Contrary to Ordinary Least Squares, this method accounts for errors in both explanatory data and variables to-be-explained. This is a highly desirable property for UAVs equipped with low-cost sensor systems. The proposed implementation combines both batch and real-time schemes, while deals efficiently with the problem of Insufficient System Excitation. Online adaptation to model changes is performed by applying a Variable Forgetting Factor to the estimation data. Finally, a Monte Carlo approach is developed for uncertainty estimation regarding compound aerodynamic variables.


Title: Collaborative 6DoF Relative Pose Estimation for Two UAVs with Overlapping Fields of View
Abstract: Driven by the promise of leveraging the benefits of collaborative robot operation, this paper presents an approach to estimate the relative transformation between two small Unmanned Aerial Vehicles (UAVs), each equipped with a single camera and an inertial sensor, comprising the first step of any meaningful collaboration. Formation flying and collaborative object manipulation are some of the few tasks that the proposed work has direct applications on, while forming a variable-baseline stereo rig using two UAVs carrying a monocular camera each promises unprecedented effectiveness in collaborative scene estimation. Assuming an overlap in the UAVs' fields of view, in the proposed framework, each UAV runs monocular-inertial odometry onboard, while an Extended Kalman Filter fuses the UAVs' estimates and common image measurements to estimate the metrically scaled relative transformation between them, in realtime. Decoupling the direction of the baseline between the cameras of the two UAVs from its magnitude, this work enables consistent and robust estimation of the uncertainty of the relative pose estimation. Our evaluation on both on simulated data and benchmarking datasets consisting of real aerial data, reveals the power of the proposed methodology in a variety of scenarios. Video - https://youtu.be/AmkkaXa2601.


Title: Realtime On-Board Attitude Estimation of High-Frequency Flapping Wing MAVs Under Large Instantaneous Oscillation
Abstract: Unlike conventional aerial vehicles of fixed or rotary wings, realtime on-board attitude estimation of insect or hummingbird scale Flapping Wing Micro Aerial Vehicles (FWMAVs) is very challenging due to the severe instantaneous oscillations (approximately ten times of gravity on our platform) induced by high-frequency wing flapping. In this work, we present a novel sensor fusion algorithm for realtime on-board attitude estimation of FWMAVs. The algorithm is proposed with adaptive model-based compensation for both sensing drift and aerodynamic forces induced by flapping wings. We validated our approach on a 12.5 grams hummingbird robot. The experimental results demonstrated the accuracy, convergence, and robustness of the proposed algorithm.


Title: Emulating a Fully Actuated Aerial Vehicle Using Two Actuators
Abstract: Micro air vehicles exemplified by quadrotors generate downward thrust in their body fixed frame and may only maneuver spatially by changing their orientation. As a result of this underactuation they are fundamentally incapable of simultaneously regulating orientation and position. Furthermore, their feasible maneuvers are limited to spatial trajectories with continuously differentiable acceleration. We present a coaxial helicopter which emulates full actuation over forces and torques (six degrees of freedom) using only two actuators. The orientation of the thrust vector from each rotor is governed by the drive motor by exciting a cyclic flapping response in special articulated blades. The useful separation of orientation and translation dynamics is demonstrated in flight experiments by tracking spatial trajectories while maintaining flat body attitude as well as tracking desired orientations near hover while station keeping.


Title: Enhancing Underwater Imagery Using Generative Adversarial Networks
Abstract: Autonomous underwater vehicles (AUVs) rely on a variety of sensors - acoustic, inertial and visual - for intelligent decision making. Due to its non-intrusive, passive nature and high information content, vision is an attractive sensing modality, particularly at shallower depths. However, factors such as light refraction and absorption, suspended particles in the water, and color distortion affect the quality of visual data, resulting in noisy and distorted images. AUVs that rely on visual sensing thus face difficult challenges and consequently exhibit poor performance on vision-driven tasks. This paper proposes a method to improve the quality of visual underwater scenes using Generative Adversarial Networks (GANs), with the goal of improving input to vision-driven behaviors further down the autonomy pipeline. Furthermore, we show how recently proposed methods are able to generate a dataset for the purpose of such underwater image restoration. For any visually-guided underwater robots, this improvement can result in increased safety and reliability through robust visual perception. To that effect, we present quantitative and qualitative data which demonstrates that images corrected through the proposed approach generate more visually appealing images, and also provide increased accuracy for a diver tracking algorithm.


Title: Level-Headed: Evaluating Gimbal-Stabilised Visual Teach and Repeat for Improved Localisation Performance
Abstract: Operating in rough, unstructured terrain is an essential requirement for any truly field-deployable ground robot. Search-and-rescue, border patrol and agricultural work all require operation in environments with little established infrastructure for easy navigation. This presents challenges for sensor-based navigation such as vision, where erratic motion and feature-poor environments test feature tracking and hinder the performance of repeat matching of point features. For vision-based route-following methods such as Visual Teach and Repeat (VT&R), maintaining similar visual perspective of salient point features is critical for reliable odometry and accurate localisation over long periods. In this paper, we investigate a potential solution to these challenges by integrating a gimbaled camera with VT&R on a Grizzly Robotic Utility Vehicle (RUV) for testing at high speeds and in visually challenging environments. We examine the benefits and drawbacks of using an actively gimbaled camera to attenuate image motion and control viewpoint. We compare the use of a gimbaled camera to our traditional fixed stereo configuration and demonstrate cases of improved performance in Visual Odometry (VO), localisation and path following in several sets of outdoor experiments.


Title: Multi-Vehicle Motion Planning for Social Optimal Mobility-on-Demand
Abstract: In this paper we consider a fleet of self-driving cars operating in a road network governed by rules of the road, such as the Vienna Convention on Road Traffic, providing rides to customers to serve their demands with desired deadlines. We focus on the associated motion planning problem that trades-off the demands' delays and level of violation of the rules of the road to achieve social optimum among the vehicles. Due to operating in the same environment, the interaction between the cars must be taken into account, and can induce further delays. We propose an integrated route and motion planning approach that achieves scalability with respect to the number of cars by resolving potential collision situations locally within so-called bubble spaces enclosing the conflict. The algorithms leverage the road geometries, and perform joint planning only for lead vehicles in the conflict and use queue scheduling for the remaining cars. Furthermore, a framework for storing previously resolved conflict situations is proposed, which can be use for quick querying of joint motion plans. We show the mobility-on-demand setup and effectiveness of the proposed approach in simulated case studies involving up to 10 self-driving vehicles.


Title: A Preliminary Study of Ice-Relative Underwater Vehicle Navigation Beneath Moving Sea Ice
Abstract: This paper addresses the problem of underwater robotic vehicle navigation relative to moving or stationary sea ice. A brief review of previously-reported under-ice navigation methods is given, as well as a brief motivation for the use of under-ice robotic vehicles with precision navigation capabilities. We then describe our proposed approach, which employs two or more satellite navigation beacons atop the sea ice along with other precision vehicle and ship mounted navigation sensors to estimate vehicle, ice, and ship states by means of an Extended Kalman Filter. Navigation results for a simulated 7.6 km under ice survey are presented for varying satellite beacon separation. Preliminary analysis suggests that for the simulated sensors, vehicle trajectory, and ice velocities, the proposed method can accurately estimate vehicle position up to 1.2 km from the deployment ship given sufficient satellite beacon separation. Decreased beacon separation results in divergence of the vehicle's position estimate at large standoff distances from the ship. We conclude with suggestions for future improvements.


Title: Micro Underwater Vehicle Hydrobatics: A Submerged Furuta Pendulum
Abstract: We present the new HippoCampus micro underwater vehicle, first introduced in [1]. It is designed for monitoring confined fluid volumes. These tightly constrained settings demand agile vehicle dynamics. Moreover, we adapt a robust attitude control scheme for aerial drones to the underwater domain. We demonstrate the performance of the controller with a challenging maneuver. A submerged Furuta pendulum is stabilized by HippoCampus after a swing-up. The experimental results reveal the robustness of the control method, as the system quickly recovers from strong physical disturbances, which are applied to the system.


Title: Satellite-Based Tele-Operation of an Underwater Vehicle-Manipulator System. Preliminary Experimental Results
Abstract: Within the European project DexROV the topic of underwater intervention is addressed. In particular, a remote control room is connected through a satellite communication link to surface vessel, which is in turn connected to an UVMS (Underwater Vehicle-Manipulator System) with an umbilical cable. The operator may interact with the system using a joystick or exoskeleton. Since a direct teleoperation is not feasible, a cognitive engine is in charge of handling communication latency or interruptions caused by the satellite link, and the UVMS should have sufficient autonomy in dealing with low level constraints or secondary objectives. To this purpose, a task-priority-based inverse kinematics algorithm has been developed in order to allow the operator to control only the end effector, while the algorithm is in charge of handling both operative and joint-space constraints. This paper describes some preliminary experimental results achieved during the DexROV campaign of July 2017 in Marseilles (France), where most of the components have been successfully integrated and the inverse kinematics nicely run.


Title: Self-triggered Adaptive Planning and Scheduling of UAV Operations
Abstract: Modern unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs) rely on constant periodic sensor measurements to detect and avoid obstacles. However, constant checking and replanning are time and energy consuming and are often not necessary especially in situations in which the UAV can safely fly in uncluttered environments without entering unsafe states. Thus, in this paper, we propose a self-triggered framework that leverages reachability analysis to schedule the next time to check sensor measurements and perform replanning while guaranteeing safety under noise and disturbance effects. Further, we relax sensor checking and motion replanning operations by leveraging a risk-based analysis that determines the likelihood to reach undesired states over a certain time horizon. We also propose an online speed adaptation policy based on the planned trajectory curvature to minimize drift from the desired path due to the system dynamics. Finally, we validate the proposed approach with simulations and experiments for a quadrotor UAV motion planning case study in a cluttered environment.


Title: Optical Fiber-Based Sensor for Assessing Electric Current in Unmanned Aerial Vehicles with ROS Interface
Abstract: In this work, we propose and experimentally validate a novel optical fiber-based sensor for monitoring and assessing electric current in unmanned aerial vehicles electric motors. The proposed sensing technology combines a Long-Period Fiber Grating sensor and a permanent Neodymium magnet, providing a small and flexible sensing scheme deployed inside the arm of the drone. The experimental results show that good accuracy and linear electric current sensitivity of 0.21 A and 2.08 A/nm, respectively, were achieved with electric current measurements at a 100 Hz sampling rate. The values of hysteresis and repeatability achieved were 0.08 A and 0.22 A, respectively. Finally, a Robot Operating System package for interfacing with the sensing system was developed and tested, which greatly simplifies the deployment of the sensor in robotics applications.


Title: A Self-contained Teleoperated Quadrotor: On-Board State-Estimation and Indoor Obstacle Avoidance
Abstract: Indoor operation of unmanned aerial vehicles (UAV s) poses many challenges due to the lack of GPS signal and cramped spaces. The presence of obstacles in an unfamiliar environment requires reliable state estimation and active algorithms to prevent collisions. In this paper, we present a teleoperated quadrotor UAV platform equipped with an onboard miniature computer and a minimal set of sensors for this task. The platform is capable of highly accurate state-estimation, tracking of desired velocity commanded by the user and ensuring collision-free navigation. The robot estimates its linear velocity through a Kalman filter integration of inertial and optical flow (OF) readings with corresponding distance measurements. An RGB-D camera serves the purpose of providing visual feedback to the operator and depth measurements to build a probabilistic, robo-centric obstacle model, allowing the robot to avoid collisions. The platform is thoroughly validated in experiments in an obstacle rich environment.


