total paper: 26
Title: Predicting Alignment Risk to Prevent Localization Failure
Abstract: During localization and mapping the success of point cloud registration can be compromised when there is an absence of geometric features or constraints in corridors or across doorways, or when the volumes scanned only partly overlap, due to occlusions or constrictions between subsequent observations. This work proposes a strategy to predict and prevent laser-based localization failure. Our solution relies on explicit analysis of the point cloud content prior to registration. A model predicting the risk of a failed alignment is learned by analysing the degree of spatial overlap between two input point clouds and the geometric constraints available within the region of overlap. We define a novel measure of alignability for these constraints. The method is evaluated against three real-world datasets and compared to baseline approaches. The experiments demonstrate how our approach can help improve the reliability of laser-based localization during exploration of unknown and cluttered man-made environments.


Title: SqueezeSeg: Convolutional Neural Nets with Recurrent CRF for Real-Time Road-Object Segmentation from 3D LiDAR Point Cloud
Abstract: We address semantic segmentation of road-objects from 3D LiDAR point clouds. In particular, we wish to detect and categorize instances of interest, such as cars, pedestrians and cyclists. We formulate this problem as a point-wise classification problem, and propose an end-to-end pipeline called SqueezeSeg based on convolutional neural networks (CNN): the CNN takes a transformed LiDAR point cloud as input and directly outputs a point-wise label map, which is then refined by a conditional random field (CRF) implemented as a recurrent layer. Instance-level labels are then obtained by conventional clustering algorithms. Our CNN model is trained on LiDAR point clouds from the KITTI [1] dataset, and our point-wise segmentation labels are derived from 3D bounding boxes from KITTI. To obtain extra training data, we built a LiDAR simulator into Grand Theft Auto V (GTA-V), a popular video game, to synthesize large amounts of realistic training data. Our experiments show that SqueezeSeg achieves high accuracy with astonishingly fast and stable runtime (8.7±0.5 ms per frame), highly desirable for autonomous driving. Furthermore, additionally training on synthesized data boosts validation accuracy on real-world data. Our source code is open-source released1. The paper is accompanied by a video2 containing a high level introduction and demonstrations of this work.


Title: Sampled-Point Network for Classification of Deformed Building Element Point Clouds
Abstract: Search-and-rescue (SAR) robots operating in post-disaster urban areas need to accurately identify physical site information to perform navigation, mapping and manipulation tasks. This can be achieved by acquiring a 3D point cloud of the environment and performing object recognition from the point cloud data. However, this task is complicated by the unstructured environments and potentially-deformed objects encountered during disaster relief operations. Current 3D object recognition methods rely on point cloud input acquired under suitable conditions and do not consider deformations such as outlier noise, bending and truncation. This work introduces a deep learning architecture for 3D class recognition from point clouds of deformed building elements. The classification network, consisting of stacked convolution and average pooling layers applied directly to point coordinates, was trained using point clouds sampled from a database of mesh models. The proposed method achieves robustness to input variability using point sorting, resampling, and rotation normalization techniques. Experimental results on synthetically-deformed object datasets show that the proposed method outperforms the conventional deep learning methods in terms of classification accuracy and computational efficiency.


Title: Gemsketch: Interactive Image-Guided Geometry Extraction from Point Clouds
Abstract: We introduce an interactive system for extracting the geometries of generalized cylinders and cuboids from single-or multiple-view point clouds. Our proposed method is intuitive and only requires the object's silhouettes to be traced by the user. Leveraging the user's perceptual understanding of what an object looks like, our proposed method is capable of extracting accurate models, even in the presence of occlusion, clutter or incomplete point cloud data, while preserving the original object's details and scale. We demonstrate the merits of our proposed method through a set of experiments on a public RGB-D dataset. We extracted 16 objects from the dataset using at most two views of each object. Our extracted models represent a high degree of visual similarity to the original objects. Further, we achieved a mean normalized Hausdorff distance of 5.66% when comparing our extracted models with the dataset's ground truths.


Title: A General Pipeline for 3D Detection of Vehicles
Abstract: Autonomous driving requires 3D perception of vehicles and other objects in the in environment. Much of the current methods support 2D vehicle detection. This paper proposes a flexible pipeline to adopt any 2D detection network and fuse it with a 3D point cloud to generate 3D information with minimum changes of the 2D detection networks. To identify the 3D box, an effective model fitting algorithm is developed based on generalised car models and score maps. A two-stage convolutional neural network (CNN) is proposed to refine the detected 3D box. This pipeline is tested on the KITTI dataset using two different 2D detection networks. The 3D detection results based on these two networks are similar, demonstrating the flexibility of the proposed pipeline. The results rank second among the 3D detection algorithms, indicating its competencies in 3D detection.


Title: Signature of Topologically Persistent Points for 3D Point Cloud Description
Abstract: We present the Signature of Topologically Persistent Points (STPP), a global descriptor that encodes topological invariants of 3D point cloud data. These topological invariants include the zeroth and first homology groups and are computed using persistent homology, a method for finding the features of a topological space at different spatial resolutions. STPP is a competitive 3D point cloud descriptor when compared to the state of art and is resilient to noisy sensor data. We demonstrate experimentally on a publicly available RGB-D dataset that STPP can be used as a distinctive signature, thus allowing for 3D point cloud processing tasks such as object detection and classification.


Title: Improving 6D Pose Estimation of Objects in Clutter Via Physics-Aware Monte Carlo Tree Search
Abstract: This work proposes a process for efficiently searching over combinations of individual object 6D pose hypotheses in cluttered scenes, especially in cases involving occlusions and objects resting on each other. The initial set of candidate object poses is generated from state-of-the-art object detection and global point cloud registration techniques. The best scored pose per object by using these techniques may not be accurate due to overlaps and occlusions. Nevertheless, experimental indications provided in this work show that object poses with lower ranks may be closer to the real poses than ones with high ranks according to registration techniques. This motivates a global optimization process for improving these poses by taking into account scene-level physical interactions between objects. It also implies that the Cartesian product of candidate poses for interacting objects must be searched so as to identify the best scene-level hypothesis. To perform the search efficiently, the candidate poses for each object are clustered so as to reduce their number but still keep a sufficient diversity. Then, searching over the combinations of candidate object poses is performed through a Monte Carlo Tree Search (MCTS) process that uses the similarity between the observed depth image of the scene and a rendering of the scene given the hypothesized pose as a score that guides the search procedure. MCTS handles in a principled way the tradeoff between fine-tuning the most promising poses and exploring new ones, by using the Upper Confidence Bound (UCB) technique. Experimental results indicate that this process is able to quickly identify in cluttered scenes physically-consistent object poses that are significantly closer to ground truth compared to poses found by point cloud registration methods.


Title: SE3-Pose-Nets: Structured Deep Dynamics Models for Visuomotor Control
Abstract: In this work, we present an approach to deep visuomotor control using structured deep dynamics models. Our model, a variant of SE3-Nets, learns a low-dimensional pose embedding for visuomotor control via an encoder-decoder structure. Unlike prior work, our model is structured: given an input scene, our network explicitly learns to segment salient parts and predict their pose embedding and motion, modeled as a change in the pose due to the applied actions. We train our model using a pair of point clouds separated by an action and show that given supervision only through point-wise data associations between the frames our network is able to learn a meaningful segmentation of the scene along with consistent poses. We further show that our model can be used for closed-loop control directly in the learned low-dimensional pose space, where the actions are computed by minimizing pose error using gradient-based methods, similar to traditional model-based control. We present results on controlling a Baxter robot from raw depth data in simulation and RGBD data in the real world and compare against two baseline deep networks. We also test the robustness and generalization performance of our controller under changes in camera pose, lighting, occlusion, and motion. Our method is robust, runs in real-time, achieves good prediction of scene dynamics, and outperforms baselines on multiple control runs. Video results can be found at: https://rse-lab.cs.washington.edu/se3-structured-deep-ctrl/.


Title: AA-ICP: Iterative Closest Point with Anderson Acceleration
Abstract: Iterative Closest Point (ICP) is a widely used method for performing scan-matching and registration. Being simple and robust, this method is still computationally expensive and may be challenging to use in real-time applications with limited resources on mobile platforms. In this paper we propose a novel effective method for acceleration of ICP which does not require substantial modifications to the existing code. This method is based on an idea of Anderson acceleration which is an iterative procedure for finding a fixed point of contractive mapping. The latter is often faster than a standard Picard iteration, usually used in ICP implementations. We show that ICP, being a fixed point problem, can be significantly accelerated by this method enhanced by heuristics to improve overall robustness. We implement proposed approach into Point Cloud Library (PCL) and make it available online. Benchmarking on the real-world data fully supports our claims.


Title: Robust and Fast 3D Scan Alignment Using Mutual Information
Abstract: This paper presents a mutual information (MI) based algorithm for the estimation of full 6-degree-of-freedom (DOF) rigid body transformation between two overlapping point clouds. We first divide the scene into a 3D voxel grid and define simple to compute features for each voxel in the scan. The two scans that need to be aligned are considered as a collection of these features and the MI between these voxelized features is maximized to obtain the correct alignment of scans. We have implemented our method with various simple point cloud features (such as number of points in voxel, variance of z-height in voxel) and compared the performance of the proposed method with existing point-to-point and point-to-distribution registration methods. We show that our approach has an efficient and fast parallel implementation on GPU, and evaluate the robustness and speed of the proposed algorithm on two real-world datasets which have variety of dynamic scenes from different environments.


Title: Topomap: Topological Mapping and Navigation Based on Visual SLAM Maps
Abstract: Visual robot navigation within large-scale, semistructured environments deals with various challenges such as computation intensive path planning algorithms or insufficient knowledge about traversable spaces. Moreover, many state-of-the-art navigation approaches only operate locally instead of gaining a more conceptual understanding of the planning objective. This limits the complexity of tasks a robot can accomplish and makes it harder to deal with uncertainties that are present in the context of real-time robotics applications. In this work, we present Topomap, a framework which simplifies the navigation task by providing a map to the robot which is tailored for path planning use. This novel approach transforms a sparse feature-based map from a visual Simultaneous Localization And Mapping (SLAM) system into a three-dimensional topological map. This is done in two steps. First, we extract occupancy information directly from the noisy sparse point cloud. Then, we create a set of convex free-space clusters, which are the vertices of the topological map. We show that this representation improves the efficiency of global planning, and we provide a complete derivation of our algorithm. Planning experiments on real world datasets demonstrate that we achieve similar performance as RRT* with significantly lower computation times and storage requirements. Finally, we test our algorithm on a mobile robotic platform to prove its advantages.


Title: Collision-Free Motion Planning for Human-Robot Collaborative Safety Under Cartesian Constraint
Abstract: This paper presents a real-time motion planning and control design of a robotic arm for human-robot collaborative safety. A novel collision-free motion planning method is proposed not only to keep robot body from colliding with objects but also preserve the execution of robot's original task under the Cartesian constraint of the environment. Multiple KinectV2 depth cameras are utilized to model and track dynamic obstacles (e.g. Humans and objects) inside the robot workspace. Depth images are applied to generate point cloud of segmented objects in the environment. A K-nearest neighbor (KNN) searching algorithm is used to cluster and find the closest point from the obstacle to the robot. Then a Kalman filter is applied to estimate the obstacle position and velocity. For the collision avoidance in collaborative operation, attractive and repulsive potential is generated for robot end effector based on the task specification and obstacle observation. Practical experiments show that the 6-DOF robot arm can effectively avoid an obstacle in a constrained environment and complete the original task.


Title: Optimization Beyond the Convolution: Generalizing Spatial Relations with End-to-End Metric Learning
Abstract: To operate intelligently in domestic environments, robots require the ability to understand arbitrary spatial relations between objects and to generalize them to objects of varying sizes and shapes. In this work, we present a novel end-to-end approach to generalize spatial relations based on distance metric learning. We train a neural network to transform 3D point clouds of objects to a metric space that captures the similarity of the depicted spatial relations, using only geometric models of the objects. Our approach employs gradient-based optimization to compute object poses in order to imitate an arbitrary target relation by reducing the distance to it under the learned metric. Our results based on simulated and real-world experiments show that the proposed method enables robots to generalize spatial relations to unknown objects over a continuous spectrum.


Title: Footstep Planning in Rough Terrain for Bipedal Robots Using Curved Contact Patches
Abstract: Bipedal robots have gained a lot of locomotion capabilities the past few years, especially in the control level. Navigation over complex and unstructured environments using exteroceptive perception, is still an active research topic. In this paper, we present a footstep planning system to produce foothold placements, using visual perception and proper environment modeling, given a black box walking controller. In particular, we extend a state-of-the-art search-based planning approach (ARA*) that produces 6DoF footstep sequences in 3D space for flat uneven terrain, to also handle rough curved surfaces, e.g. rocks. This is achieved by integrating both a curved patch modeling system for rough local terrain surfaces and a flat foothold contact analysis based on visual range input data, into the existing planning framework. The system is experimentally validated using real-world point clouds, while rough terrain stepping demonstrations are presented on the WALK-MAN humanoid robot, in simulation.


Title: The Exchange of Knowledge Using Cloud Robotics
Abstract: To enable robots to perform human-level tasks flexibly in varying conditions, we need a mechanism that allows them to exchange knowledge between themselves for crowd-sourcing the knowledge gap problem. One approach to achieve this is to equip a cloud application with a range of encyclopedic knowledge (i.e. ontologies) and execution logs of different robots performing the same tasks in different environments. In this paper, we show how knowledge exchange between robots can be done using OPENEASE as the cloud application. We equipped OPENEASE with ontologies about the kitchen domain, execution logs of three robots operating in two different kitchens, and semantic descriptions of both environments. By addressing two different use cases, we show that two PR2 robots and one Fetch robot can successfully adapt each other's plan parameters and sub symbolic data to the experiments that they are conducting.


Title: Real-Time Object Tracking in Sparse Point Clouds Based on 3D Interpolation
Abstract: While object tracking for 3D point clouds has been widely researched in recent years, most trackers employ a direct point-to-point matching method under the assumption that target object clouds are dense, although the method is not suitable for sparse point clouds. In this paper, we introduce a novel object-tracking strategy that enables even sparse point clouds to be tracked properly. The strategy involves estimating distributions, called as Estimation of Vertical Distributions (EVD), by the proposed interpolation method to augment data and by a point-to-distribution matching technique. The EVD step generates vertical distributions of unoccupied areas on a target object using the distributions of the occupied areas and then seeks the optimal solution through a coarse-to-fine grid search to guarantee real-time performance. In order to verify the proposed tracking algorithm, we have tested our tracker on real world data collected by our own platform, and the results have demonstrated that the tracker outperforms other trackers.


Title: Robust Generalized Point Cloud Registration Using Hybrid Mixture Model
Abstract: This paper introduces a robust point cloud registration method which utilizes not only positional but also the orientation information at each point. The proposed method takes a probabilistic approach which forms the problem as a hybrid mixture model, in which a Von-Mises-Fisher mixture model (FMM) is adopted to model the orientation part and a gaussian mixture model (GMM) is used to represent the position part. When two point clouds are optimally registered, the correspondence is the maximum of the posterior probability of the overall mixture model. Expectation-Maximization (EM) algorithm has been adopted to solve the optimization problem in an iterative manner to find the optimal rotation and translation between two point clouds. Extensive experiments under different noise levels and different outlier ratios have been carried out on a dataset of the femur CT images. Comparison results show that the proposed method outperforms the state-of-the-art methods under most of the experimental conditions, which indicates the validity of our method.


Title: Self-Calibration of Mobile Manipulator Kinematic and Sensor Extrinsic Parameters Through Contact-Based Interaction
Abstract: We present a novel approach for mobile manipulator self-calibration using contact information. Our method, based on point cloud registration, is applied to estimate the extrinsic transform between a fixed vision sensor mounted on a mobile base and an end effector. Beyond sensor calibration, we demonstrate that the method can be extended to include manipulator kinematic model parameters, which involves a nonrigid registration process. Our procedure uses on-board sensing exclusively and does not rely on any external measurement devices, fiducial markers, or calibration rigs. Further, it is fully automatic in the general case. We experimentally validate the proposed method on a custom mobile manipulator platform, and demonstrate centimetre-level post-calibration accuracy in positioning of the end effector using visual guidance only. We also discuss the stability properties of the registration algorithm, in order to determine the conditions under which calibration is possible.


Title: A General Framework for Flexible Multi-Cue Photometric Point Cloud Registration
Abstract: The ability to build maps is a key functionality for the majority of mobile robots. A central ingredient to most mapping systems is the registration or alignment of the recorded sensor data. In this paper, we present a general methodology for photometric registration that can deal with multiple different cues. We provide examples for registering RGBD as well as 3D LIDAR data. In contrast to popular point cloud registration approaches such as ICP our method does not rely on explicit data association and exploits multiple modalities such as raw range and image data streams. Color, depth, and normal information are handled in an uniform manner and the registration is obtained by minimizing the pixel-wise difference between two multi-channel images. We developed a flexible and general framework and implemented our approach inside that framework. We also released our implementation as open source C++ code. The experiments show that our approach allows for an accurate registration of the sensor data without requiring an explicit data association or model-specific adaptations to datasets or sensors. Our approach exploits the different cues in a natural and consistent way and the registration can be done at framerate for a typical range or imaging sensor.


Title: Dex-Net 3.0: Computing Robust Vacuum Suction Grasp Targets in Point Clouds Using a New Analytic Model and Deep Learning
Abstract: Vacuum-based end effectors are widely used in industry and are often preferred over parallel-jaw and multifinger grippers due to their ability to lift objects with a single point of contact. Suction grasp planners often target planar surfaces on point clouds near the estimated centroid of an object. In this paper, we propose a compliant suction contact model that computes the quality of the seal between the suction cup and local target surface and a measure of the ability of the suction grasp to resist an external gravity wrench. To characterize grasps, we estimate robustness to perturbations in end-effector and object pose, material properties, and external wrenches. We analyze grasps across 1,500 3D object models to generate Dex-Net 3.0, a dataset of 2.8 million point clouds, suction grasps, and grasp robustness labels. We use Dex-Net 3.0 to train a Grasp Quality Convolutional Neural Network (GQ-CNN) to classify robust suction targets in point clouds containing a single object. We evaluate the resulting system in 350 physical trials on an ABB YuMi fitted with a pneumatic suction gripper. When evaluated on novel objects that we categorize as Basic (prismatic or cylindrical), Typical (more complex geometry), and Adversarial (with few available suction-grasp points) Dex-Net 3.0 achieves success rates of 98%, 82%, and 58% respectively, improving to 81% in the latter case when the training set includes only adversarial objects. Code, datasets, and supplemental material can be found at http://berkeleyautomation.github.io/dex-net.


Title: Feature-Based Transfer Learning for Robotic Push Manipulation
Abstract: This paper presents a data-efficient approach to learning transferable forward models for robotic push manipulation. Our approach extends our previous work on contact-based predictors by leveraging information on the pushed object's local surface features. We test the hypothesis that, by conditioning predictions on local surface features, we can achieve generalisation across objects of different shapes. In doing so, we do not require a CAD model of the object but rather rely on a point cloud object model (PCOM). Our approach involves learning motion models that are specific to contact models. Contact models encode the contacts seen during training time and allow generating similar contacts at prediction time. Predicting on familiar ground reduces the motion models' sample complexity while using local contact information for prediction increases their transferability. In extensive experiments in simulation, our approach is capable of transfer learning for various test objects, outperforming a baseline predictor. We support those results with a proof of concept on a real robot.


Title: Spatiotemporal Learning of Dynamic Gestures from 3D Point Cloud Data
Abstract: In this paper, we demonstrate an end-to-end spatiotemporal gesture learning approach for 3D point cloud data using a new gestures dataset of point clouds acquired from a 3D sensor. Nine classes of gestures were learned from gestures sample data. We mapped point cloud data into dense occupancy grids, then time steps of the occupancy grids are used as inputs into a 3D convolutional neural network which learns the spatiotemporal features in the data without explicit modeling of gesture dynamics. We also introduced a 3D region of interest jittering approach for point cloud data augmentation. This resulted in an increased classification accuracy of up to 10% when the augmented data is added to the original training data. The developed model is able to classify gestures from the dataset with 84.44% accuracy. We propose that point cloud data will be a more viable data type for scene understanding and motion recognition, as 3D sensors become ubiquitous in years to come.


Title: Conditional Compatibility Branch and Bound for Feature Cloud Matching
Abstract: In this paper, we consider the problem of data association in feature cloud matching. While Joint Compatibility (JC) test is a widely adopted technique for searching the global optimal data association, it becomes less restrictive as more features are well matched. The early well-matched features contribute little to total matching cost while the gating threshold increases in the chi-square test, which allows the acceptance of bad feature pairings in the last step. In this paper, we propose the Conditional Compatibility (CC) test, which is not only more restrictive than JC test, but also probabilistically sound. The proposed test of a new feature pairing is based on the conditional probability distribution of feature locations given the early pairings. CC test can be added into any JC test based search algorithm, such as Joint Compatibility Branch and Bound (JCBB), Incremental Posterior Joint Compatibility (IPJC) and FastJCBB, without increasing much computational complexity. The more restrictive criterion of accepting a feature pairing, not only helps to reject bad associations, but also bounds the search space, which substantially improves the search efficiency. The real matching experiments justify that our algorithm produces better feature cloud matching results in a more efficient manner.


Title: Live Structural Modeling Using RGB-D SLAM
Abstract: This paper presents a method for localizing primitive shapes in a dense point cloud computed by the RGB-D SLAM system. To stably generate a shape map containing only primitive shapes, the primitive shape is incrementally modeled by fusing the shapes estimated at previous frames in the SLAM, so that an accurate shape can be finally generated. Specifically, the history of the fusing process is used to avoid the influence of error accumulation in the SLAM. The point cloud of the shape is then updated by fusing the points in all the previous frames into a single point cloud. In the experimental results, we show that metric primitive modeling in texture-less and unprepared environments can be achieved online.


Title: Cooperative Adaptive Control for Cloud-Based Robotics
Abstract: This paper studies collaboration through the cloud in the context of cooperative adaptive control for robot manipulators. We first consider the case of multiple robots manipulating a common object through synchronous centralized update laws to identify unknown inertial parameters. Through this development, we introduce a notion of Collective Sufficient Richness, wherein parameter convergence can be enabled through teamwork in the group. The introduction of this property and the analysis of stable adaptive controllers that benefit from it constitute the main new contributions of this work. Building on this original example, we then consider decentralized update laws, time-varying network topologies, and the influence of communication delays on this process. Perhaps surprisingly, these nonidealized networked conditions inherit the same benefits of convergence being determined through collective effects for the group. Simple simulations of a planar manipulator identifying an unknown load are provided to illustrate the central idea and benefits of Collective Sufficient Richness.


Title: Towards Understanding Object-Directed Actions: A Generative Model for Grounding Syntactic Categories of Speech Through Visual Perception
Abstract: Creating successful human-robot collaboration requires robots to have high-level cognitive functions that could allow them to understand human language and actions in space. To meet this target, an elusive challenge that we address in this paper is to understand object-directed actions through grounding language based on visual cues representing the dynamics of human actions on objects, object characteristics (color and geometry), and spatial relationships between objects in a tabletop scene. The proposed probabilistic framework investigates unsupervised Part-of-Speech (POS) tagging to determine syntactic categories of words so as to infer grammatical structure of language. The dynamics of object-directed actions are characterized through the locations of the human arm joints - modeled on a Hidden Markov Model (HMM) - while manipulating objects, in addition to those of objects represented in 3D point clouds. These corresponding point clouds to segmented objects encode geometric features and spatial semantics of referents and landmarks in the environment. The proposed Bayesian learning model is successfully evaluated through interaction experiments between a human user and Toyota HSR robot in space.


