total paper: 45
Title: iMag: Accurate and Rapidly Deployable Inertial Magneto-Inductive Localisation
Abstract: Localisation is of importance for many applications. Our motivating scenarios are short-term construction work and emergency rescue. Not only is accuracy necessary, these scenarios also require rapid setup and robustness to environmental conditions. These requirements preclude the use of many traditional methods e.g. vision-based, laser-based, Ultra-wide band (UWB) and Global Positioning System (GPS)-based localisation systems. To solve these challenges, we introduce iMag, an accurate and rapidly deployable inertial magneto-inductive (MI) localisation system. It localises monitored workers using a single MI transmitter and inertial measurement units with minimal setup effort. However, MI location estimates can be distorted and ambiguous. To solve this problem, we suggest a novel method to use MI devices for sensing environmental distortions, and use these to correctly close inertial loops. By applying robust simultaneous localisation and mapping (SLAM), our proposed localisation method achieves excellent tracking accuracy, and can improve performance significantly compared with only using an inertial measurement unit (IMU) and MI device for localisation.


Title: Learning-Based Image Enhancement for Visual Odometry in Challenging HDR Environments
Abstract: One of the main open challenges in visual odometry (VO) is the robustness to difficult illumination conditions or high dynamic range (HDR) environments. The main difficulties in these situations come from both the limitations of the sensors and the inability to perform a successful tracking of interest points because of the bold assumptions in VO, such as brightness constancy. We address this problem from a deep learning perspective, for which we first fine-tune a deep neural network with the purpose of obtaining enhanced representations of the sequences for VO. Then, we demonstrate how the insertion of long short term memory allows us to obtain temporally consistent sequences, as the estimation depends on previous states. However, the use of very deep networks enlarges the computational burden of the VO framework; therefore, we also propose a convolutional neural network of reduced size capable of performing faster. Finally, we validate the enhanced representations by evaluating the sequences produced by the two architectures in several state-of-art VO algorithms, such as ORB-SLAM and DSO.


Title: Fusion of Stereo and Still Monocular Depth Estimates in a Self-Supervised Learning Context
Abstract: We study how autonomous robots can learn by themselves to improve their depth estimation capability. In particular, we investigate a self-supervised learning setup in which stereo vision depth estimates serve as targets for a convolutional neural network (CNN) that transforms a single still image to a dense depth map. After training, the stereo and mono estimates are fused with a novel fusion method that preserves high confidence stereo estimates, while leveraging the CNN estimates in the low-confidence regions. The main contribution of the article is that it is shown that the fused estimates lead to a higher performance than the stereo vision estimates alone. Experiments are performed on the KITTI dataset, and on board of a Parrot SLAMDunk, showing that even rather limited CNNs can help provide stereo vision equipped robots with more reliable depth maps for autonomous navigation.


Title: Robust Visual Localization for Hopping Rovers on Small Bodies
Abstract: We present a collaborative visual localization method for rovers designed to hop and tumble across the surface of small Solar System bodies, such as comets and asteroids. In a two-phase approach, an orbiting primary spacecraft first maps the surface of a body by capturing images from various poses and illumination angles; these images are processed to create a prior map of 3D landmarks. In the second phase, a hopping rover is deployed to the surface where it uses a camera to relocalize to the prior map and to perform onboard visual simultaneous localization and mapping (SLAM). Small bodies present several unique challenges to existing visual SLAM algorithms, such as high-contrast shadows that move quickly over the surface due to the short (e.g. 1-12 hour) rotational periods, and large changes in visual appearance between orbit and the surface, where image scale varies by many orders of magnitude (kilometers to centimeters). In this work, we describe how to augment ORB-SLAM2-a state of the art visual SLAM implementation-to handle large variations in illumination by fusing prior images with varying illumination angles. We demonstrate how a hopping rover can use a wide field of view (FOV) camera to relocalize to prior maps captured by an orbiting spacecraft with a narrow FOV camera, and how the growth of pose and scale errors can be bounded by periodic loop closures during large hops. The proposed method is evaluated with sequences of images captured around a mock asteroid; it is shown to be robust to varying illumination angles, scene scale changes, and off-nadir camera pointing angles.


Title: Bounding Drift in Cooperative Localisation Through the Sharing of Local Loop Closures
Abstract: Handling loop closures and intervehicle observations in cooperative robotic scenarios remains a challenging problem due to data consistency, bandwidth limitations and increased computation requirements. This paper develops a general cooperative localisation and single vehicle Visual SLAM framework that includes direct intervehicle observations and pose to pose loop closures on each vehicle with states shared as required. This fuses single vehicle SLAM with cooperative localisation and avoids data association of map data across limited communication networks. The base problem is developed as a factor graph with each vehicle solving local subgraphs that are split based on intervehicle observations. We modify the order of variable elimination in subgraphs through manipulation of the square-root of the Information matrix to extract updates that include the historic states involved in the loop closures and do not require transmission of other states not involved in the measurement or retransmission of previously shared states. We demonstrate the effect on localisation accuracy and bandwidth using data captured from a set of five robots observing each other and landmarks compared to both single vehicle SLAM, pure cooperative localisation and a centralised solution.


Title: Relocalization, Global Optimization and Map Merging for Monocular Visual-Inertial SLAM
Abstract: The monocular visual-inertial system (VINS), which consists one camera and one low-cost inertial measurement unit (IMU), is a popular approach to achieve accurate 6-DOF state estimation. However, such locally accurate visual-inertial odometry is prone to drift and cannot provide absolute pose estimation. Leveraging history information to relocalize and correct drift has become a hot topic. In this paper, we propose a monocular visual-inertial SLAM system, which can relocalize camera and get the absolute pose in a previous-built map. Then 4-DOF pose graph optimization is performed to correct drifts and achieve global consistent. The 4-DOF contains x, y, z, and yaw angle, which is the actual drifted direction in the visual-inertial system. Furthermore, the proposed system can reuse a map by saving and loading it in an efficient way. Current map and previous map can be merged together by the global pose graph optimization. We validate the accuracy of our system on public datasets and compare against other state-of-the-art algorithms. We also evaluate the map merging ability of our system in the large-scale outdoor environment. The source code of map reuse is integrated into our public code, VINS-Monol11https://github.com/HKUST-Aerial-Robotics/VINS-Mono.


Title: Elastic LiDAR Fusion: Dense Map-Centric Continuous-Time SLAM
Abstract: The concept of continuous-time trajectory representation has brought increased accuracy and efficiency to multi-modal sensor fusion in modern SLAM. However, regardless of these advantages, its offline property caused by the requirement of global batch optimization is critically hindering its relevance for real-time and life-long applications. In this paper, we present a dense map-centric SLAM method based on a continuous-time trajectory to cope with this problem. The proposed system locally functions in a similar fashion to conventional Continuous-Time SLAM (CT-SLAM). However, it removes the need for global trajectory optimization by introducing map deformation. The computational complexity of the proposed approach for loop closure does not depend on the operation time, but only on the size of the space it explored before the loop closure. It is therefore more suitable for long term operation compared to the conventional CT-SLAM. Furthermore, the proposed method reduces uncertainty in the reconstructed dense map by using probabilistic surface element (surfel) fusion. We demonstrate that the proposed method produces globally consistent maps without global batch trajectory optimization, and effectively reduces LiDAR noise by surfel fusion.


Title: Design of an Autonomous Racecar: Perception, State Estimation and System Integration
Abstract: This paper introduces jlüela driverless: the first autonomous racecar to win a Formula Student Driverless competition. In this competition, among other challenges, an autonomous racecar is tasked to complete 10 laps of a previously unknown racetrack as fast as possible and using only onboard sensing and computing. The key components of flüela's design are its modular redundant sub-systems that allow robust performance despite challenging perceptual conditions or partial system failures. The paper presents the integration of key components of our autonomous racecar, i.e., system design, EKF-based state estimation, LiDAR-based perception, and particle filter-based SLAM. We perform an extensive experimental evaluation on real-world data, demonstrating the system's effectiveness by outperforming the next-best ranking team by almost half the time required to finish a lap. The autonomous racecar reaches lateral and longitudinal accelerations comparable to those achieved by experienced human drivers.


Title: Addressing Challenging Place Recognition Tasks Using Generative Adversarial Networks
Abstract: Place recognition is an essential component of Simultaneous Localization And Mapping (SLAM). Under severe appearance change, reliable place recognition is a difficult perception task since the same place is perceptually very different in the morning, at night, or over different seasons. This work addresses place recognition as a domain translation task. Using a pair of coupled Generative Adversarial Networks (GANs), we show that it is possible to generate the appearance of one domain (such as summer) from another (such as winter) without requiring image-to-image correspondences across the domains. Mapping between domains is learned from sets of images in each domain without knowing the instance-to-instance correspondence by enforcing a cyclic consistency constraint. In the process, meaningful feature spaces are learned for each domain, the distances in which can be used for the task of place recognition. Experiments show that learned features correspond to visual similarity and can be effectively used for place recognition across seasons.


Title: Data-Efficient Decentralized Visual SLAM
Abstract: Decentralized visual simultaneous localization and mapping (SLAM) is a powerful tool for multi-robot applications in environments where absolute positioning is not available. Being visual, it relies on cheap, lightweight and versatile cameras, and, being decentralized, it does not rely on communication to a central entity. In this work, we integrate state-of-the-art decentralized SLAM components into a new, complete decentralized visual SLAM system. To allow for data association and optimization, existing decentralized visual SLAM systems exchange the full map data among all robots, incurring large data transfers at a complexity that scales quadratically with the robot count. In contrast, our method performs efficient data association in two stages: first, a compact full-image descriptor is deterministically sent to only one robot. Then, only if the first stage succeeded, the data required for relative pose estimation is sent, again to only one robot. Thus, data association scales linearly with the robot count and uses highly compact place representations. For optimization, a state-of-the-art decentralized pose-graph optimization method is used. It exchanges a minimum amount of data which is linear with trajectory overlap. We characterize the resulting system and identify bottlenecks in its components. The system is evaluated on publicly available datasets and we provide open access to the code. Supplementary Material Data and code are at: https://github.com/uzh-rpg/dslam_open.


Title: A Linear Least Square Initialization Method for 3D Pose Graph Optimization Problem
Abstract: Pose Graph Optimization (PGO) is an important optimization problem arising in robotics and machine vision applications like 3D reconstruction and 3D SLAM. Each node of pose graph corresponds to an orientation and a location. The PGO problem finds orientations and locations of the nodes from relative noisy observation between nodes. Recent investigations show that well-known iterative PGO solvers need good initialization to converge to good solutions. However, we observed that state-of-the-art initialization methods obtain good initialization only in low noise problems, and they fail in challenging problems having more measurement noise. Consequently, iterative methods may converge to bad solutions in high noise problems. In this paper, a new method for obtaining orientations in the PGO optimization problem is presented. Like other well-known methods the initial locations are obtained from the result of a least-squares problem. The proposed method iteratively approximates the problem around current estimation and converts it to a least-squares problem. Therefore, the method can be seen as an iterative least-squares method which is computationally efficient. Simulation results show that the proposed initialization method helps the most well-known iterative solver to obtain better optima and significantly outperform other solvers in some cases.


Title: IMLS-SLAM: Scan-to-Model Matching Based on 3D Data
Abstract: The Simultaneous Localization And Mapping (SLAM) problem has been well studied in the robotics community, especially using mono, stereo cameras or depth sensors. 3D depth sensors, such as Velodyne LiDAR, have proved in the last 10 years to be very useful to perceive the environment in autonomous driving, but few methods exist that directly use these 3D data for odometry. We present a new low-drift SLAM algorithm based only on 3D LiDAR data. Our method relies on a scan-to-model matching framework. We first have a specific sampling strategy based on the LiDAR scans. We then define our model as the previous localized LiDAR sweeps and use the Implicit Moving Least Squares (IMLS) surface representation. We show experiments with the Velodyne HDL32 with only 0.40% drift over a 4 km acquisition without any loop closure (i.e., 16 m drift after 4 km). We tested our solution on the KITTI benchmark with a Velodyne HDL64 and ranked among the best methods (against mono, stereo and LiDAR methods) with a global drift of only 0.69%.


Title: ApriISAM: Real-Time Smoothing and Mapping
Abstract: For online robots, incremental SLAM algorithms offer huge potential computational savings over batch algorithms. The dominant incremental algorithms are iSAM and iSAM2 which offer radically different approaches to computing incremental updates, balancing issues like 1) the need to re-linearize, 2) changes in the desirable variable marginalization order, and 3) the underlying conceptual approach (i.e. the “matrix” story versus the “factor graph” story). In this paper, we propose a new incremental algorithm that computes solutions with lower absolute error and generally provides lower error solutions for a fixed computational budget than either iSAM or iSAM2. Key to AprilSAM's performance are a new dynamic variable reordering algorithm for fast incremental Cholesky factorizations, a method for reducing the work involved in backsubstitutions, and a new algorithm for deciding between incremental and batch updates.


Title: A Monocular SLAM System Leveraging Structural Regularity in Manhattan World
Abstract: The structural features in Manhattan world encode useful geometric information of parallelism, orthogonality and/or coplanarity in the scene. By fully exploiting these structural features, we propose a novel monocular SLAM system which provides accurate estimation of camera poses and 3D map. The foremost contribution of the proposed system is a structural feature-based optimization module which contains three novel optimization strategies. First, a rotation optimization strategy using the parallelism and orthogonality of 3D lines is presented. We propose a global binding method to compute an accurate estimation of the absolute rotation of the camera. Then we propose an approach for calculating the relative rotation to further refine the absolute rotation. Second, a translation optimization strategy leveraging coplanarity is proposed. Coplanar features are effectively identified, and we leverage them by a unified model handling both points and lines to calculate the relative translation, and then the optimal absolute translation. Third, a 3D line optimization strategy utilizing parallelism, orthogonality and coplanarity simultaneously is proposed to obtain an accurate 3D map consisting of structural line segments with low computational complexity. Experiments in man-made environments have demonstrated that the proposed system outperforms existing state-of-the-art monocular SLAM systems in terms of accuracy and robustness.


Title: Pairwise Consistent Measurement Set Maximization for Robust Multi-Robot Map Merging
Abstract: This paper reports on a method for robust selection of inter-map loop closures in multi-robot simultaneous localization and mapping (SLAM). Existing robust SLAM methods assume a good initialization or an “odometry backbone” to classify inlier and outlier loop closures. In the multi-robot case, these assumptions do not always hold. This paper presents an algorithm called Pairwise Consistency Maximization (PCM) that estimates the largest pairwise internally consistent set of measurements. Finding the largest pairwise internally consistent set can be transformed into an instance of the maximum clique problem from graph theory, and by leveraging the associated literature it can be solved in realtime. This paper evaluates how well PCM approximates the combinatorial gold standard using simulated data. It also evaluates the performance of PCM on synthetic and real-world data sets in comparison with DCS, SCGP, and RANSAC, and shows that PCM significantly outperforms these methods.


Title: Feature-Based SLAM for Imaging Sonar with Under-Constrained Landmarks
Abstract: Recent algorithms have demonstrated the feasibility of underwater feature-based SLAM using imaging sonar. But previous methods have either relied on manual feature extraction and correspondence or used prior knowledge of the scene, such as the planar scene assumption. Our proposed system provides a general-purpose method for feature-point extraction and correspondence in arbitrary scenes. Additionally, we develop a method of identifying point landmarks that are likely to be well-constrained and reliably reconstructed. Finally, we demonstrate that while under-constrained landmarks cannot be accurately reconstructed themselves, they can still be used to constrain and correct the sensor motion. These advances represent a large step towards general-purpose, feature-based SLAM with imaging sonar.


Title: SLAMBench2: Multi-Objective Head-to-Head Benchmarking for Visual SLAM
Abstract: SLAM is becoming a key component of robotics and augmented reality (AR) systems. While a large number of SLAM algorithms have been presented, there has been little effort to unify the interface of such algorithms, or to perform a holistic comparison of their capabilities. This is a problem since different SLAM applications can have different functional and non-functional requirements. For example, a mobile phone-based AR application has a tight energy budget, while a UAV navigation system usually requires high accuracy. SLAMBench2 is a benchmarking framework to evaluate existing and future SLAM systems, both open and close source, over an extensible list of datasets, while using a comparable and clearly specified list of performance metrics. A wide variety of existing SLAM algorithms and datasets is supported, e.g. ElasticFusion, InfiniTAM, ORB-SLAM2, OKVIS, and integrating new ones is straightforward and clearly specified by the framework. SLAMBench2 is a publicly-available software framework which represents a starting point for quantitative, comparable and val-idatable experimental research to investigate trade-offs across SLAM systems.


Title: Don't Look Back: Robustifying Place Categorization for Viewpoint- and Condition-Invariant Place Recognition
Abstract: When a human drives a car along a road for the first time, they later recognize where they are on the return journey typically without needing to look in their rear view mirror or turn around to look back, despite significant viewpoint and appearance change. Such navigation capabilities are typically attributed to our semantic visual understanding of the environment [1] beyond geometry to recognizing the types of places we are passing through such as “passing a shop on the left” or “moving through a forested area”. Humans are in effect using place categorization [2] to perform specific place recognition even when the viewpoint is 180 degrees reversed. Recent advances in deep neural networks have enabled high performance semantic understanding of visual places and scenes, opening up the possibility of emulating what humans do. In this work, we develop a novel methodology for using the semantics-aware higher-order layers of deep neural networks for recognizing specific places from within a reference database. To further improve the robustness to appearance change, we develop a descriptor normalization scheme that builds on the success of normalization schemes for pure appearance-based techniques such as SeqSLAM [3]. Using two different datasets - one road-based, one pedestrian-based, we evaluate the performance of the system in performing place recognition on reverse traversals of a route with a limited field of view camera and no turn-back-and-Iook behaviours, and compare to existing state-of-the-art techniques and vanilla off-the-shelf features. The results demonstrate significant improvements over the existing state of the art, especially for extreme perceptual challenges that involve both great viewpoint change and environmental appearance change. We also provide experimental analyses of the contributions of the various system components: the use of spatio-temporal sequences, place categorization and place-centric characteristics as opposed to object-centric semantics.


Title: Towards Globally Consistent Visual-Inertial Collaborative SLAM
Abstract: Motivated by the need for globally consistent tracking and mapping before autonomous robot navigation becomes realistically feasible, this paper presents a novel backend to monocular-inertial odometry. As some of the most challenging platforms for vision-based perception, we evaluate the performance of our system using Unmanned Aerial Vehicles (UAV s). Our experimental validation demonstrates that the proposed approach achieves drift correction and metric scale estimation from a single UAV on benchmarking datasets. Furthermore, the generality of our approach is demonstrated to achieve globally consistent maps built in a collaborative manner from two UAVs, each equipped with a monocular-inertial sensor suite, showing the possible gains opened by collaboration amongst robots to perform SLAM. Video - https://youtu.be/wbX36HBu2Eg.


Title: Topomap: Topological Mapping and Navigation Based on Visual SLAM Maps
Abstract: Visual robot navigation within large-scale, semistructured environments deals with various challenges such as computation intensive path planning algorithms or insufficient knowledge about traversable spaces. Moreover, many state-of-the-art navigation approaches only operate locally instead of gaining a more conceptual understanding of the planning objective. This limits the complexity of tasks a robot can accomplish and makes it harder to deal with uncertainties that are present in the context of real-time robotics applications. In this work, we present Topomap, a framework which simplifies the navigation task by providing a map to the robot which is tailored for path planning use. This novel approach transforms a sparse feature-based map from a visual Simultaneous Localization And Mapping (SLAM) system into a three-dimensional topological map. This is done in two steps. First, we extract occupancy information directly from the noisy sparse point cloud. Then, we create a set of convex free-space clusters, which are the vertices of the topological map. We show that this representation improves the efficiency of global planning, and we provide a complete derivation of our algorithm. Planning experiments on real world datasets demonstrate that we achieve similar performance as RRT* with significantly lower computation times and storage requirements. Finally, we test our algorithm on a mobile robotic platform to prove its advantages.


Title: PIRVS: An Advanced Visual-Inertial SLAM System with Flexible Sensor Fusion and Hardware Co-Design
Abstract: In this paper, we present the PerceptIn Robotics Vision System (PIRVS), a visual-inertial computing hardware with embedded simultaneous localization and mapping (SLAM) algorithm. The PIRVS hardware is equipped with a multi-core processor, a global-shutter stereo camera, and an IMU with precise hardware synchronization. The PIRVS software features a flexible sensor fusion approach to not only tightly integrate visual measurements with inertial measurements and also to loosely couple with additional sensor modalities. It runs in real-time on both PC and the PIRVS hardware. We perform a thorough evaluation of the proposed system using multiple public visual-inertial datasets. Experimental results demonstrate that our system reaches comparable accuracy of state-of-the-art visual-inertial algorithms on PC, while being more efficient on the PIRVS hardware.


Title: ProSLAM: Graph SLAM from a Programmer's Perspective
Abstract: In this paper we present ProSLAM, a lightweight open-source stereo visual SLAM system designed with simplicity in mind. This work stems from the experience gathered by the authors while teaching SLAM and aims at providing a highly modular system that can be easily implemented and understood. Rather than focusing on the well known mathematical aspects of stereo visual SLAM, we highlight the data structures and the algorithmic aspects required to realize such a system. We implemented ProSLAM using the C++ programming language in combination with a minimal set of standard libraries. The results of a thorough validation performed on several standard benchmark datasets show that ProSLAM achieves precision comparable to state-of-the-art approaches, while requiring substantially less computation.


Title: Talk Resource-Efficiently to Me: Optimal Communication Planning for Distributed Loop Closure Detection
Abstract: Due to the distributed nature of cooperative simultaneous localization and mapping (CSLAM), detecting inter-robot loop closures necessitates sharing sensory data with other robots. A naïve approach to data sharing can easily lead to a waste of mission-critical resources. This paper investigates the logistical aspects of CSLAM. Particularly, we present a general resource-efficient communication planning framework that takes into account both the total amount of exchanged data and the induced division of labor between the participating robots. Compared to other state-of-the-art approaches, our framework is able to verify the same set of potential inter-robot loop closures while exchanging considerably less data and influencing the induced workloads. We develop a fast algorithm for finding globally optimal communication policies, and present theoretical analysis to characterize the necessary and sufficient conditions under which simpler strategies are optimal. The proposed framework is extensively evaluated with data from the KITTI odometry benchmark datasets.


Title: StaticFusion: Background Reconstruction for Dense RGB-D SLAM in Dynamic Environments
Abstract: Dynamic environments are challenging for visual SLAM as moving objects can impair camera pose tracking and cause corruptions to be integrated into the map. In this paper, we propose a method for robust dense RGB-D SLAM in dynamic environments which detects moving objects and simultaneously reconstructs the background structure. While most methods employ implicit robust penalisers or outlier filtering techniques in order to handle moving objects, our approach is to simultaneously estimate the camera motion as well as a probabilistic static/dynamic segmentation of the current RGB-D image pair. This segmentation is then used for weighted dense RGB-D fusion to estimate a 3D model of only the static parts of the environment. By leveraging the 3D model for frame-to-model alignment, as well as static/dynamic segmentation, camera motion estimation has reduced overall drift - as well as being more robust to the presence of dynamics in the scene. Demonstrations are presented which compare the proposed method to related state-of-the-art approaches using both static and dynamic sequences. The proposed method achieves similar performance in static environments and improved accuracy and robustness in dynamic scenes.


Title: Constructing Category-Specific Models for Monocular Object-SLAM
Abstract: We present a new paradigm for real-time object-oriented SLAM with a monocular camera. Contrary to previous approaches, that rely on object-level models, we construct category-level models from CAD collections which are now widely available. To alleviate the need for huge amounts of labeled data, we develop a rendering pipeline that enables synthesis of large datasets from a limited amount of manually labeled data. Using data thus synthesized, we learn category-level models for object deformations in 3D, as well as discriminative object features in 2D. These category models are instance-independent and aid in the design of object landmark observations that can be incorporated into a generic monocular SLAM framework. Where typical object-SLAM approaches usually solve only for object and camera poses, we also estimate object shape on-the-fty, allowing for a wide range of objects from the category to be present in the scene. Moreover, since our 2D object features are learned discriminatively, the proposed object-SLAM system succeeds in several scenarios where sparse feature-based monocular SLAM fails due to insufficient features or parallax. Also, the proposed category-models help in object instance retrieval, useful for Augmented Reality (AR) applications. We evaluate the proposed framework on multiple challenging real-world scenes and show - to the best of our knowledge - first results of an instance-independent monocular object-SLAM system and the benefits it enjoys over feature-based SLAM methods.


Title: Sparse-to-Dense: Depth Prediction from Sparse Depth Samples and a Single Image
Abstract: We consider the problem of dense depth prediction from a sparse set of depth measurements and a single RGB image. Since depth estimation from monocular images alone is inherently ambiguous and unreliable, to attain a higher level of robustness and accuracy, we introduce additional sparse depth samples, which are either acquired with a low-resolution depth sensor or computed via visual Simultaneous Localization and Mapping (SLAM) algorithms. We propose the use of a single deep regression network to learn directly from the RGB-D raw data, and explore the impact of number of depth samples on prediction accuracy. Our experiments show that, compared to using only RGB images, the addition of 100 spatially random depth samples reduces the prediction root-mean-square error by 50% on the NYU-Depth-v2 indoor dataset. It also boosts the percentage of reliable prediction from 59% to 92% on the KITTI dataset. We demonstrate two applications of the proposed algorithm: a plug-in module in SLAM to convert sparse maps to dense maps, and super-resolution for LiDARs. Software2 and video demonstration3 are publicly available.


Title: Just-in-Time Reconstruction: Inpainting Sparse Maps Using Single View Depth Predictors as Priors
Abstract: We present “just-in-time reconstruction” as realtime image-guided inpainting of a map with arbitrary scale and sparsity to generate a fully dense depth map for the image. In particular, our goal is to inpaint a sparse map - obtained from either a monocular visual SLAM system or a sparse sensor - using a single-view depth prediction network as a virtual depth sensor. We adopt a fairly standard approach to data fusion, to produce a fused depth map by performing inference over a novel fully-connected Conditional Random Field (CRF) which is parameterized by the input depth maps and their pixel-wise confidence weights. Crucially, we obtain the confidence weights that parameterize the CRF model in a data-dependent manner via Convolutional Neural Networks (CNNs) which are trained to model the conditional depth error distributions given each source of input depth map and the associated RGB image. Our CRF model penalises absolute depth error in its nodes and pairwise scale-invariant depth error in its edges, and the confidence-based fusion minimizes the impact of outlier input depth values on the fused result. We demonstrate the flexibility of our method by real-time inpainting of ORB-SLAM, Kinect, and LIDAR depth maps acquired both indoors and outdoors at arbitrary scale and varied amount of irregular sparsity.


Title: Efficient Continuous-Time SLAM for 3D Lidar-Based Online Mapping
Abstract: Modern 3D laser-range scanners have a high data rate, making online simultaneous localization and mapping (SLAM) computationally challenging. Recursive state estimation techniques are efficient but commit to a state estimate immediately after a new scan is made, which may lead to misalignments of measurements. We present a 3D SLAM approach that allows for refining alignments during online mapping. Our method is based on efficient local mapping and a hierarchical optimization back-end. Measurements of a 3D laser scanner are aggregated in local multiresolution maps by means of surfel-based registration. The local maps are used in a multi-level graph for allocentric mapping and localization. In order to incorporate corrections when refining the alignment, the individual 3D scans in the local map are modeled as a sub-graph and graph optimization is performed to account for drift and misalignments in the local maps. Furthermore, in each sub-graph, a continuous-time representation of the sensor trajectory allows to correct measurements between scan poses. We evaluate our approach in multiple experiments by showing qualitative results. Furthermore, we quantify the map quality by an entropy-based measure.


Title: Direct Line Guidance Odometry
Abstract: Modern visual odometry algorithms utilize sparse point-based features for tracking due to their low computational cost. Current state-of-the-art methods are split between indirect methods that process features extracted from the image, and indirect methods that deal directly on pixel intensities. In recent years, line-based features have been used in SLAM and have shown an increase in performance albeit with an increase in computational cost. In this paper, we propose an extension to a point-based direct monocular visual odometry method. Here we that uses lines to guide keypoint selection rather than acting as features. Points on a line are treated as stronger keypoints than those in other parts of the image, steering point-selection away from less distinctive points and thereby increasing efficiency. By combining intensity and geometry information from a set of points on a line, accuracy may also be increased.


Title: Direct Visual SLAM Using Sparse Depth for Camera-LiDAR System
Abstract: This paper describes a framework for direct visual simultaneous localization and mapping (SLAM) combining a monocular camera with sparse depth information from Light Detection and Ranging (LiDAR). To ensure realtime performance while maintaining high accuracy in motion estimation, we present (i) a sliding window-based tracking method, (ii) strict pose marginalization for accurate pose-graph SLAM and (iii) depth-integrated frame matching for large-scale mapping. Unlike conventional feature-based visual and LiDAR mapping, the proposed approach is direct, eliminating the visual feature in the objective function. We evaluated results using our portable camera-LiDAR system as well as KITTI odometry benchmark datasets. The experimental results prove that the characteristics of two complementary sensors are very effective in improving real-time performance and accuracy. Via validation, we achieved low drift error of 0.98 % in the KITTI benchmark including various environments such as a highway and residential areas.


Title: Bayesian Scale Estimation for Monocular SLAM Based on Generic Object Detection for Correcting Scale Drift
Abstract: We propose a novel real-time algorithm for estimating the local scale correction of a monocular SLAM system, to obtain a correctly scaled version of the 3D map and of the camera trajectory. Within a Bayesian framework, it integrates observations from a deep-learning based generic object detector and landmarks from the map whose projection lie inside a detection region, to produce scale correction estimates from single frames. For each observation, a prior distribution on the height of the detected object class is used to define the observation's likelihood. Due to the scale drift inherent to monocular SLAM systems, we also incorporate a rough model on the dynamics of scale drift. Quantitative evaluations are presented on the KITTI dataset, and compared with different approaches. The results show a superior performance of our proposal in terms of relative translational error when compared to other monocular systems based on object detection.


Title: Efficient Active SLAM Based on Submap Joining, Graph Topology and Convex Optimization
Abstract: The active SLAM problem considered in this paper aims to plan a robot trajectory for simultaneous localization and mapping (SLAM) as well as for an area coverage task with robot pose uncertainty. Based on a model predictive control (MPC) framework, these two problems are solved respectively by different methods. For the uncertainty minimization MPC problem, based on the graphical structure of the 2D feature-based SLAM, a non-convex constrained least-squares problem is presented to approximate the original problem. Then, using variable substitutions, it is further transformed into a convex problem, and then solved by a convex optimization method. For the coverage task considering robot pose uncertainty, it is formulated and solved by the MPC framework and the sequential quadratic programming (SQP) method. In the whole process, considering the computation complexity, we use linear SLAM, which is a submap joining approach, to reduce the time for planning and estimation. Finally, various simulations are presented to validate the effectiveness of the proposed approach.


Title: 2D SLAM Correction Prediction in Large Scale Urban Environments
Abstract: Simultaneous Localization And Mapping (SLAM) is one of the major bricks needed to build truly autonomous mobile robots. The probabilistic formulation of SLAM is based on two models: the motion model and the observation model. In practice, these models, together with the SLAM map representation, do not model perfectly the robot's real dynamics, the sensor measurement errors and the environment. Consequently, systematic errors affect SLAM estimations. In this paper, we propose two approaches to predict corrections to be applied to SLAM estimations. Both are based on the Ensemble Multilayer Perceptron model. The first approach uses successive estimated poses to predict the errors, with no assumptions on the underlying SLAM process or sensor used. The second method is specific to 2D likelihood SLAM approaches, thus, the likelihood distributions are used to predict the corrections, making this second approach independent of the sensor used. We also build a hybrid correction module based on successive estimated poses and the likelihood distributions. The validity of both approaches is evaluated through two experiments using different evaluation metrics and sensor configurations.


Title: Omnidirectional Multisensory Perception Fusion for Long-Term Place Recognition
Abstract: Over the recent years, long-term place recognition has attracted an increasing attention to detect loops for largescale Simultaneous Localization and Mapping (SLAM) in loopy environments during long-term autonomy. Almost all existing methods are designed to work with traditional cameras with a limited field of view. Recent advances in omnidirectional sensors offer a robot an opportunity to perceive the entire surrounding environment. However, no work has existed thus far to research how omnidirectional sensors can help long-term place recognition, especially when multiple types of omnidirectional sensory data are available. In this paper, we propose a novel approach to integrate observations obtained from multiple sensors from different viewing angles in the omnidirectional observation in order to perform multi-directional place recognition in longterm autonomy. Our approach also answers two new questions when omnidirectional multisensory data is available for place recognition, including whether it is possible to recognize a place with long-term appearance variations when robots approach it from various directions, and whether observations from various viewing angles are the same informative. To evaluate our approach and hypothesis, we have collected the first large-scale dataset that consists of omnidirectional multisensory (intensity and depth) data collected in urban and suburban environments across a year. Experimental results have shown that our approach is able to achieve multi-directional long-term place recognition, and identifies the most discriminative viewing angles from the omnidirectional observation.


Title: Online Initialization and Automatic Camera-IMU Extrinsic Calibration for Monocular Visual-Inertial SLAM
Abstract: Most of the existing monocular visual-inertial SLAM techniques assume that the camera-IMU extrinsic parameters are known, therefore these methods merely estimate the initial values of velocity, visual scale, gravity, biases of gyroscope and accelerometer in the initialization stage. However, it's usually a professional work to carefully calibrate the extrinsic parameters, and it is required to repeat this work once the mechanical configuration of the sensor suite changes slightly. To tackle this problem, we propose an online initialization method to automatically estimate the initial values and the extrinsic parameters without knowing the mechanical configuration. The biases of gyroscope and accelerometer are considered in our method, and a convergence criteria for both orientation and translation calibration is introduced to identify the convergence and to terminate the initialization procedure. In the three processes of our method, an iterative strategy is firstly introduced to iteratively estimate the gyroscope bias and the extrinsic orientation. Secondly, the scale factor, gravity, and extrinsic translation are approximately estimated without considering the accelerometer bias. Finally, these values are further optimized by a refinement algorithm in which the accelerometer bias and the gravitational magnitude are taken into account. Extensive experimental results show that our method achieves competitive accuracy compared with the state-of-the-art with less calculation.


Title: Sonar Visual Inertial SLAM of Underwater Structures
Abstract: This paper presents an extension to a state of the art Visual-Inertial state estimation package (OKVIS) in order to accommodate data from an underwater acoustic sensor. Mapping underwater structures is important in several fields, such as marine archaeology, search and rescue, resource management, hydrogeology, and speleology. Collecting the data, however, is a challenging, dangerous, and exhausting task. The underwater domain presents unique challenges in the quality of the visual data available; as such, augmenting the exteroceptive sensing with acoustic range data results in improved reconstructions of the underwater structures. Experimental results from underwater wrecks, an underwater cave, and a submerged bus demonstrate the performance of our approach.


Title: 3DOF Pedestrian Trajectory Prediction Learned from Long-Term Autonomous Mobile Robot Deployment Data
Abstract: This paper presents a novel 3DOF pedestrian trajectory prediction approach for autonomous mobile service robots. While most previously reported methods are based on learning of 2D positions in monocular camera images, our approach uses range-finder sensors to learn and predict 3DOF pose trajectories (i.e. 2D position plus 1D rotation within the world coordinate system). Our approach, T-Pose-LSTM (Temporal 3DOF-Pose Long-Short-Term Memory), is trained using long-term data from real-world robot deployments and aims to learn context-dependent (environment- and time-specific) human activities. Our approach incorporates long-term temporal information (i.e. date and time) with short-term pose observations as input. A sequence-to-sequence LSTM encoder-decoder is trained, which encodes observations into LSTM and then decodes the resulting predictions. On deployment, the approach can perform on-the-fly prediction in real-time. Instead of using manually annotated data, we rely on a robust human detection, tracking and SLAM system, providing us with examples in a global coordinate system. We validate the approach using more than 15 km of pedestrian trajectories recorded in a care home environment over a period of three months. The experiments show that the proposed T-Pose-LSTM model outperforms the state-of-the-art 2D-based method for human trajectory prediction in long-term mobile robot deployments.


Title: Complex Urban LiDAR Data Set
Abstract: This paper presents a Light Detection and Ranging (LiDAR) data set that targets complex urban environments. Urban environments with high-rise buildings and congested traffic pose a significant challenge for many robotics applications. The presented data set is unique in the sense it is able to capture the genuine features of an urban environment (e.g. metropolitan areas, large building complexes and underground parking lots). Data of two-dimensional (2D) and three-dimensional (3D) LiDAR, which are typical types of LiDAR sensors, are provided in the data set. The two 16-ray 3D LiDARs are tilted on both sides for maximal coverage. One 2D LiDAR faces backward while the other faces forwards to collect data of roads and buildings, respectively. Raw sensor data from Fiber Optic Gyro (FOG), Inertial Measurement Unit (IMU), and the Global Positioning System (GPS) are presented in a file format for vehicle pose estimation. The pose information of the vehicle estimated at 100 Hz is also presented after applying the graph simultaneous localization and mapping (SLAM) algorithm. For the convenience of development, the file player and data viewer in Robot Operating System (ROS) environment were also released via the web page. The full data sets are available at: http://irap.kaist.ac.kr/dataset. In this website, 3D preview of each data set is provided using WebGL.


Title: Live Structural Modeling Using RGB-D SLAM
Abstract: This paper presents a method for localizing primitive shapes in a dense point cloud computed by the RGB-D SLAM system. To stably generate a shape map containing only primitive shapes, the primitive shape is incrementally modeled by fusing the shapes estimated at previous frames in the SLAM, so that an accurate shape can be finally generated. Specifically, the history of the fusing process is used to avoid the influence of error accumulation in the SLAM. The point cloud of the shape is then updated by fusing the points in all the previous frames into a single point cloud. In the experimental results, we show that metric primitive modeling in texture-less and unprepared environments can be achieved online.


Title: Complexity Analysis and Efficient Measurement Selection Primitives for High-Rate Graph SLAM
Abstract: Sparsity has been widely recognized as crucial for efficient optimization in graph-based SLAM. Because the sparsity and structure of the SLAM graph reflect the set of incorporated measurements, many methods for sparsification have been proposed in hopes of reducing computation. These methods often focus narrowly on reducing edge count without regard for structure at a global level. Such structurally-naïve techniques can fail to produce significant computational savings, even after aggressive pruning. In contrast, simple heuristics such as measurement decimation and keyframing are known empirically to produce significant computation reductions. To demonstrate why, we propose a quantitative metric called elimination complexity (EC) that bridges the existing analytic gap between graph structure and computation. EC quantifies the complexity of the primary computational bottleneck: the factorization step of a Gauss-Newton iteration. Using this metric, we show rigorously that decimation and keyframing impose favorable global structures and therefore achieve computation reductions on the order of r2/9 and r3, respectively, where r is the pruning rate. We additionally present numerical results showing EC provides a good approximation of computation in both batch and incremental (iSAM2) optimization and demonstrate that pruning methods promoting globally-efficient structure outperform those that do not.


Title: Dense Planar-Inertial SLAM with Structural Constraints
Abstract: In this work, we develop a novel dense planar-inertial SLAM (DPI-SLAM) system to reconstruct dense 3D models of large indoor environments using a hand-held RGB-D sensor and an inertial measurement unit (IMU). The preinte-grated IMU measurements are loosely-coupled with the dense visual odometry (VO) estimation and tightly-coupled with the planar measurements in a full SLAM framework. The poses, velocities, and IMU biases are optimized together with the planar landmarks in a global factor graph using incremental smoothing and mapping with the Bayes Tree (iSAM2). With odometry estimation using both RGB-D and IMU data, our system can keep track of the poses of the sensors even without sufficient planes or visual information (e.g. textureless walls) temporarily. Modeling planes and IMU states in the fully probabilistic global optimization reduces the drift that distorts the reconstruction results of other SLAM algorithms. Moreover, structural constraints between nearby planes (e.g. right angles) are added into the DPI-SLAM system, which further recovers the drift and distortion. We test our DPI-SLAM on large indoor datasets and demonstrate its state-of-the-art performance as the first planar-inertial SLAM system.


Title: Ruling the Control Authority of a Service Robot Based on Information Precision
Abstract: We consider the problem of guiding a senior user along a path using a robotic walking assistant. This is a particular type of path following problem, for which most of the solutions available in the literature require an exact localisation of the robot in the environment. An accurate localisation is obtained either with a heavy infrastructure (e.g., an active sensing system deployed in the environment or deploying landmarks in known positions) or using SLAM approaches with a massive data collection. Our key observation is that the intervention of the system (and a good level of accuracy) is only required in proximity of difficult decision points, while we can rely on the user in an environment where the only possibility is just to maintain a course (e.g., a corridor). The direct implication is that we can instrument the environment with a heavy infrastructure only in certain areas. This design strategy has to be complemented by an adequate control law that shifts the authority (i.e., the control of the actuators) between the robot and the user according to the accuracy of the information available to the robot. Such a control law is exactly the contribution of this paper.


Title: Feature-constrained Active Visual SLAM for Mobile Robot Navigation
Abstract: This paper focuses on tracking failure avoidance during vision-based navigation to a desired goal in unknown environments. While using feature-based Visual Simultaneous Localization and Mapping (VSLAM), continuous identification and association of map points are required during motion. Thus, we discuss a motion planning framework that takes into account sensory constraints for a reliable navigation. We use information available in the SLAM and propose a data-driven approach to predict the number of map points associated in a given pose. Then, a distance-optimal path planner utilizes the model to constrain paths such that the number of associated map points in each pose is above a threshold. We also include an online mapping of the environment for collision avoidance. Overall, we propose an iterative motion planning framework that enables real-time replanning after the acquisition of more information. Experiments in two environments demonstrate the performance of the proposed framework.


Title: Selection and Compression of Local Binary Features for Remote Visual SLAM
Abstract: In the field of autonomous robotics, Simultaneous Localization and Mapping (SLAM) is still a challenging problem. With cheap visual sensors attracting more and more attention, various solutions to the SLAM problem using visual cues have been proposed. However, current visual SLAM systems are still computationally demanding, especially on embedded devices. In addition, collaborative SLAM approaches emerge using visual information acquired from multiple robots simultaneously to build a joint map. In order to address both challenges, we present an approach for remote visual SLAM where local binary features are extracted at the robot, compressed and sent over a network to a centralized powerful processing node running the visual SLAM algorithm. To this end, we propose a new feature coding scheme including a feature selection stage which ensures that only relevant information is transmitted. We demonstrate the effectiveness of our approach on well-known datasets. With the proposed approach, it is possible to build an accurate map while limiting the data rate to 75 kbits/frame.


Title: Realtime State Estimation with Tactile and Visual Sensing. Application to Planar Manipulation
Abstract: Accurate and robust object state estimation enables successful object manipulation. Visual sensing is widely used to estimate object poses. However, in a cluttered scene or in a tight workspace, the robot's end-effector often occludes the object from the visual sensor. The robot then loses visual feedback and must fall back on open-loop execution. In this paper, we integrate both tactile and visual input using a framework for solving the SLAM problem, incremental smoothing and mapping (iSAM), to provide a fast and flexible solution. Visual sensing provides global pose information but is noisy in general, whereas contact sensing is local, but its measurements are more accurate relative to the end-effector. By combining them, we aim to exploit their advantages and overcome their limitations. We explore the technique in the context of a pusher-slider system. We adapt iSAM's measurement cost and motion cost to the pushing scenario, and use an instrumented setup to evaluate the estimation quality with different object shapes, on different surface materials, and under different contact modes.


