total paper: 131
Title: String Untying Planning Based on Knot Theory and Proposal of Algorithms to Generate the Motion of a Manipulator
Abstract: Recently, the demand to manipulate deformable objects such as a string and cloth by robots is growing. The reason is that it has the possibility of making our lives more convenient in many domains. The manipulation of deformable objects, however, is more difficult than that of rigid objects, because deformable objects have diversity of shape and behavior. Therefore, our research group has been focusing on the string shape operation. This paper describes planning method of string untying operation based on knot theory and algorithms to generate the motion of a manipulator. The novel contribution of our planning method is automatic selection of optimal shape operation based on cost function. At final, the results of string untying experiments are reported.


Title: Efficient Planning for Near-Optimal Compliant Manipulation Leveraging Environmental Contact
Abstract: Path planning classically focuses on avoiding environmental contact. However, some assembly tasks permit contact through compliance, and such contact may allow for more efficient and reliable solutions under action uncertainty. But, optimal manipulation plans that leverage environmental contact are difficult to compute. Environmental contact produces complex kinematics that create difficulties for planning. This complexity is usually addressed by discretization over state and action space, but discretization quickly becomes computationally intractable. To overcome the challenge, we use the insight that only actions on configurations near the contact manifold are likely to involve complex kinematics, while segments of the plan through free space do not. Leveraging this structure can greatly reduce the number of states considered and scales much better with problem complexity. We develop an algorithm based on this idea and show that it performs comparably to full MDP solutions at a fraction of the computational cost.


Title: Constrained Sampling-Based Planning for Grasping and Manipulation
Abstract: This paper presents a novel constrained, sampling-based motion planning method for grasp and transport tasks with a redundant robotic manipulator. We utilize a planning margin for grasping with constraints that allow the best grasp configuration and approach direction to be determined automatically. For manipulators with many degrees of freedom, our method efficiently chooses the optimal grasp pose when there are many redundant solutions. The method also introduces a parameterized intermediate pose that is optimized to determine the approach direction, increasing robustness under sensor uncertainty and execution errors. Our method also considers transporting the grasped object to the desired target position using a Rapidly-exploring Random Tree (RRT) algorithm that incorporates soft constraints via appropriate cost penalties. We demonstrate the effectiveness and efficiency of our algorithms on a number of simulated and experimental applications. Our experimental results show a marked improvement in computational efficiency in comparison to previously studied approaches.


Title: Geometric In-Hand Regrasp Planning: Alternating Optimization of Finger Gaits and In-Grasp Manipulation
Abstract: This paper explores the problem of autonomous, in-hand regrasping-the problem of moving from an initial grasp on an object to a desired grasp using the dexterity of a robot's fingers. We propose a planner for this problem which alternates between finger gaiting, and in-grasp manipulation. Finger gaiting enables the robot to move a single finger to a new contact location on the object, while the remaining fingers stably hold the object. In-grasp manipulation moves the object to a new pose relative to the robot's palm, while maintaining the contact locations between the hand and object. Given the object's geometry (as a mesh), the hand's kinematic structure, and the initial and desired grasps, we plan a sequence of finger gaits and object reposing actions to reach the desired grasp without dropping the object. We propose an optimization based approach and report in-hand regrasping plans for 5 objects over 5 in-hand regrasp goals each. The plans generated by our planner are collision free and guarantee kinematic feasibility.


Title: Stable Prehensile Pushing: In-Hand Manipulation with Alternating Sticking Contacts
Abstract: This paper presents an approach to in-hand manipulation planning that exploits the mechanics of alternating sticking contact. Particularly, we consider the problem of manipulating a grasped object using external pushes for which the pusher sticks to the object. Given the physical properties of the object, frictional coefficients at contacts and a desired regrasp on the object, we propose a sampling-based planning framework that builds a pushing strategy concatenating different feasible stable pushes to achieve the desired regrasp. An efficient dynamics formulation allows us to plan in-hand manipulations 100-1000 times faster than our previous work which builds upon a complementarity formulation. Experimental observations for the generated plans show that the object precisely moves in the grasp as expected by the planner.


Title: Rearrangement with Nonprehensile Manipulation Using Deep Reinforcement Learning
Abstract: Rearranging objects on a tabletop surface by means of nonprehensile manipulation is a task which requires skillful interaction with the physical world. Usually, this is achieved by precisely modeling physical properties of the objects, robot, and the environment for explicit planning. In contrast, as explicitly modeling the physical environment is not always feasible and involves various uncertainties, we learn a nonprehensile rearrangement strategy with deep reinforcement learning based on only visual feedback. For this, we model the task with rewards and train a deep Q-network. Our potential field-based heuristic exploration strategy reduces the amount of collisions which lead to suboptimal outcomes and we actively balance the training set to avoid bias towards poor examples. Our training process leads to quicker learning and better performance on the task as compared to uniform exploration and standard experience replay. We demonstrate empirical evidence from simulation that our method leads to a success rate of 85%, show that our system can cope with sudden changes of the environment, and compare our performance with human level performance.


Title: Online Safe Trajectory Generation for Quadrotors Using Fast Marching Method and Bernstein Basis Polynomial
Abstract: In this paper, we propose a framework for online quadrotor motion planning for autonomous navigation in unknown environments. Based on the onboard state estimation and environment perception, we adopt a fast marching-based path searching method to find a path on a velocity field induced by the Euclidean signed distance field (ESDF) of the map, to achieve better time allocation. We generate a flight corridor for the quadrotor to travel through by inflating the path against the environment. We represent the trajectory as piecewise Bézier curves by using Bernstein polynomial basis and formulate the trajectory generation problem as typical convex programs. By using Bézier curves, we are able to bound positions and higher order dynamics of the trajectory entirely within safe regions. The proposed motion planning method is integrated into a customized light-weight quadrotor platform and is validated by presenting fully autonomous navigation in unknown cluttered indoor and outdoor environments. We also release our code for trajectory generation as an open-source package.


Title: Coverage Path Planning Under the Energy Constraint
Abstract: In the coverage path planning problem, a common assumption is that the robot can fully cover the environment without recharging. However, in reality most mobile robot systems operate under battery limitations. To incorporate this constraint, we consider the problem when the working environment is large and the robot needs to recharge multiple times to fully cover the environment. We focus on a geometric version where the environment is represented as a polygonal grid with a single charging station. Energy consumption throughout the environment is assumed to be uniform and proportional to the distance traveled. We first present a constant-factor approximation algorithm for contour-connected environments. We then extend the algorithm for general environments. We also validate the results in experiments performed with an aerial robot.


Title: Planning, Fast and Slow: A Framework for Adaptive Real-Time Safe Trajectory Planning
Abstract: Motion planning is an extremely well-studied problem in the robotics community, yet existing work largely falls into one of two categories: computationally efficient but with few if any safety guarantees, or able to give stronger guarantees but at high computational cost. This work builds on a recent development called FaSTrack in which a slow offline computation provides a modular safety guarantee for a faster online planner. We introduce the notion of “meta-planning” in which a refined offline computation enables safe switching between different online planners. This provides autonomous systems with the ability to adapt motion plans to a priori unknown environments in real-time as sensor measurements detect new obstacles, and the flexibility to maneuver differently in the presence of obstacles than they would in free space, all while maintaining a strict safety guarantee. We demonstrate the meta-planning algorithm both in simulation and in hardware using a small Crazyflie 2.0 quadrotor.


Title: Know Rob 2.0 — A 2nd Generation Knowledge Processing Framework for Cognition-Enabled Robotic Agents
Abstract: In this paper we present KnowRob2, a second generation knowledge representation and reasoning framework for robotic agents. KnowRob2 is an extension and partial redesign of KnowRob, currently one of the most advanced knowledge processing systems for robots that has enabled them to successfully perform complex manipulation tasks such as making pizza, conducting chemical experiments, and setting tables. The knowledge base appears to be a conventional first-order time interval logic knowledge base, but it exists to a large part only virtually: many logical expressions are constructed on demand from data structures of the control program, computed through robotics algorithms including ones for motion planning and solving inverse kinematics problems, and log data stored in noSQL databases. Novel features and extensions of KnowRob2 substantially increase the capabilities of robotic agents of acquiring open-ended manipulation skills and competence, reasoning about how to perform manipulation actions more realistically, and acquiring commonsense knowledge.


Title: Learning User Preferences in Robot Motion Planning Through Interaction
Abstract: In this paper we develop an approach for learning user preferences for complex task specifications through human-robot interaction. We consider the problem of planning robot motion in a known environment, but where a user has specified additional spatial and temporal constraints on allowable robot motions. To illustrate the impact of the user's constraints on performance, we iteratively present users with alternative solutions on an interface. The user provides a ranking of alternate paths, and from this we learn about the importance of different constraints. This allows for an accessible method for specifying complex robot tasks. We present an algorithm that iteratively builds a set of constraints on the relative importance of each user constraint, and prove that with sufficient interaction, the algorithm determines a user-optimal path. We demonstrate the practical performance by simulating realistic material transport scenarios in industrial facilities.


Title: Kinematic Design Optimization of a Parallel Surgical Robot to Maximize Anatomical Visibility via Motion Planning
Abstract: We introduce a method to optimize on a patient-specific basis the kinematic design of the Continuum Reconfigurable Incisionless Surgical Parallel (CRISP) robot, a needle-diameter medical robot based on a parallel structure that is capable of performing minimally invasive procedures. Our objective is to maximize the ability of the robot's tip camera to view tissue surfaces in constrained spaces. The kinematic design of the CRISP robot, which greatly influences its ability to perform a task, includes parameters that are fixed before the procedure begins, such as entry points into the body and parallel structure connection points. We combine a global stochastic optimization algorithm, Adaptive Simulated Annealing (ASA), with a motion planner designed specifically for the CRISP robot. ASA facilitates exploration of the robot's design space while the motion planner enables evaluation of candidate designs based on their ability to successfully view target regions on a tissue surface. By leveraging motion planning, we ensure that the evaluation of a design only considers motions which do not collide with the patient's anatomy. We analytically show that the method asymptotically converges to a globally optimal solution and demonstrate our algorithm's ability to optimize kinematic designs of the CRISP robot on a patient-specific basis.


Title: Planning-Aware Communication for Decentralised Multi-Robot Coordination
Abstract: We present an algorithm for selecting when to communicate during online planning phases of coordinated multi-robot missions. The key idea is that a robot decides to request communication from another robot by reasoning over the predicted information value of communication messages over a sliding time-horizon, where communication messages are probability distributions over action sequences. We formulate this problem in the context of the recently proposed decentralised Monte Carlo tree search (Dec-MCTS) algorithm for online, decentralised multi-robot coordination. We propose a particle filter for predicting the information value, and a polynomial-time belief-space planning algorithm for finding the optimal communication schedules in an online and decentralised manner. We evaluate the benefit of informative communication planning for a multi-robot information gathering scenario with 8 simulated robots. Our results show reductions in channel utilisation of up to four-fifths with surprisingly little impact on coordination performance.


Title: Cooperative Object Transportation by Multiple Ground and Aerial Vehicles: Modeling and Planning
Abstract: In this paper the modeling and planning problems of a system composed of multiple ground and aerial robots involved in a transportation task are considered. The ground robots rigidly grasp a load, while the aerial vehicles are attached to the object through non-rigid inextensible cables. The idea behind such a heterogeneous multi-robot system is to benefit of the advantages of both types of robots that might be the precision of ground robots, the increased payload of multiple aerial vehicles and their larger workspace. The overall model of the system is derived and its expression and redundancy are exploited by setting a general constrained optimal planning problem. The problem is herein solved by dynamic programming and simulation results validated the proposed scheme.


Title: Integrating Planning and Execution for a Team of Heterogeneous Robots with Time and Communication Constraints
Abstract: Field multi-robot missions face numerous unavoidable disturbances, such as delays in executing tasks and intermittent communications. Coping with such disturbances requires to endow the robots with high-level decision skills. We present a distributed decision architecture based first on a hybrid planner that can manage decentralized repairs with partial communication, and secondly on a distributed execution algorithm that efficiently propagates delays. This architecture has been successfully experimented on the field for the achievement of surveillance missions involving eight (8) real autonomous aerial and ground robots.


Title: Automated Pick-Up of Suturing Needles for Robotic Surgical Assistance
Abstract: Robot-assisted laparoscopic prostatectomy (RALP) is a treatment for prostate cancer that involves complete or nerve sparing removal prostate tissue that contains cancer. After removal the bladder neck is successively sutured directly with the urethra. The procedure is called urethrovesical anastomosis and is one of the most dexterity demanding tasks during RALP. Two suturing instruments and a pair of needles are used in combination to perform a running stitch during urethrovesical anastomosis. While robotic instruments provide enhanced dexterity to perform the anastomosis, it is still highly challenging and difficult to learn. In this paper, we presents a vision-guided needle grasping method for automatically grasping the needle that has been inserted into the patient prior to anastomosis. We aim to automatically grasp the suturing needle in a position that avoids hand-offs and immediately enables the start of suturing. The full grasping process can be broken down into: a needle detection algorithm; an approach phase where the surgical tool moves closer to the needle based on visual feedback; and a grasping phase through path planning based on observed surgical practice. Our experimental results show examples of successful autonomous grasping that has the potential to simplify and decrease the operational time in RALP by assisting a small component of urethrovesical anastomosis.


Title: Reliably Arranging Objects in Uncertain Domains
Abstract: A crucial challenge in robotics is achieving reliable results in spite of sensing and control uncertainty. In this work, we explore the conformant planning approach to robot manipulation. In particular, we tackle the problem of pushing multiple planar objects simultaneously to achieve a specified arrangement without external sensing. Conformant planning is a belief-state planning problem. A belief state is the set of all possible states of the world, and the goal is to find a sequence of actions that will bring an initial belief state to a goal belief state. To do forward belief-state planning, we created a deterministic belief-state transition model from supervised learning based on off-line physics simulations. We compare our method with an on-line physics-based manipulation approach and show significantly reduced planning times and increased robustness in simulated experiments. Finally, we demonstrate the success of this approach in simulations and physical robot experiments.


Title: Robotic Cleaning Through Dirt Rearrangement Planning with Learned Transition Models
Abstract: We address the problem of enabling a manipulator to move arbitrary amounts and configurations of dirt on a surface to a goal region using a cleaning tool. We represent this problem as heuristic search with a set of primitive dirt-oriented tool actions. We present dirt and action representations that allow efficient learning and prediction of future dirt states, given the current dirt state and applied action. We also present a method for sampling promising actions based on a clustering of dirt states and heuristics for planning. We demonstrate the effectiveness of our approach on challenging cleaning tasks through implementations on PR2 and Fetch robots.


Title: Fast Planning for 3D Any-Pose-Reorienting Using Pivoting
Abstract: In this paper, we consider reorienting 3D objects on a table using a two-finger pinch gripper. Given the 3D mesh model of the object, our algorithm solves for the gripper motions that are required to transit between arbitrary object poses, grasping positions and gripper poses. The two motion primitives we used, pivoting and compliant rolling, enable us to decompose the planning problem and solve it more efficiently. Our algorithm can work with approximated (simplified) mesh models while being robust to approximation errors, thereby allowing us to efficiently handle object shapes with originally thousands of facets. We show the effectiveness of the proposed method by testing on objects with non-trivial geometry in both simulations and experiments. Results show that our algorithm can solve a larger range of reorienting problems with less number of making and breaking contacts when compared to traditional pick-and-place based methods, especially when the gripper workspace is highly constrained.


Title: Task Space Motion Planning Decomposition
Abstract: In autonomous robotics there are many situations that require solving a motion planning problem to complete a task. A Task Space (T-Space), composed of parameters that define the task being performed, can be a more effective planning space for these problems, however, planning within a T-Space is often computationally challenging. In this paper, we present a novel method to analyse the relationship between T-Space parameters and the pose of manipulator bodies to create a dependency matrix. We then use this information to decompose the motion planning problem into sequential lower complexity sub-problems. We call this approach Task Space Motion Planning Decomposition (TSMPD). This paper introduces TSMPD and quantifies the improvement to planning efficiency on a challenging maze navigation problem and weld path planning problem.


Title: Planning Hybrid Driving-Stepping Locomotion on Multiple Levels of Abstraction
Abstract: Navigating in search and rescue environments is challenging, since a variety of terrains has to be considered. Hybrid driving-stepping locomotion, as provided by our robot Momaro, is a promising approach. Similar to other locomotion methods, it incorporates many degrees of freedom - offering high flexibility but making planning computationally expensive for larger environments. We propose a navigation planning method, which unifies different levels of representation in a single planner. In the vicinity of the robot, it provides plans with a fine resolution and a high robot state dimensionality. With increasing distance from the robot, plans become coarser and the robot state dimensionality decreases. We compensate this loss of information by enriching coarser representations with additional semantics. Experiments show that the proposed planner provides plans for large, challenging scenarios in feasible time.


Title: Gradient-Informed Path Smoothing for Wheeled Mobile Robots
Abstract: Planning smooth trajectories is important for the safe, efficient and comfortable operation of mobile robots, such as wheeled robots moving in crowded environments or cars moving at high speed. Asymptotically optimal sampling-based motion planners can be used to generate such trajectories. However, to achieve the necessary efficiency for the realtime operation of robots, one often uses their initial feasible trajectories or the trajectories of non-optimal motion planners instead, typically after a post-smoothing step. We propose a gradient-informed post-smoothing algorithm, called GRIPS, that deforms given trajectories by locally optimizing the placement of vertices while satisfying the system's kinodynamic constraints. We show experimentally that GRIPS typically produces trajectories of significantly smaller length and higher smoothness than several existing post-smoothing algorithms.


Title: Indoor Coverage Path Planning: Survey, Implementation, Analysis
Abstract: Coverage Path Planning (CPP) describes the process of generating robot trajectories that fully cover an area or volume. Applications are, amongst many others, mobile cleaning robots, lawn mowing robots or harvesting machines in agriculture. Many approaches and facets of this problem have been discussed in literature but despite the availability of several surveys on the topic there is little work on quantitative assessment and comparison of different coverage path planning algorithms. This paper analyzes six popular off-line coverage path planning methods, applicable to previously recorded maps, in the setting of indoor coverage path planning on room-sized units. The implemented algorithms are thoroughly compared on a large dataset of over 550 rooms with and without furniture.


Title: Simultaneous Optimization of ZMP and Footsteps Based on the Analytical Solution of Divergent Component of Motion
Abstract: Real-time planning of footsteps has been a big challenge for bipedal research. A large number of methods have been proposed over the last several years. In addition, divergent component of motion (DCM) of linear inverted pendulum (LIP) has been applied to solve this problem thus attracting a great deal of attention. In this paper, we derive an analytical solution of DCM for an arbitrary input function and propose a novel quadratic programming (QP) problem for the simultaneous optimization of zero moment point (ZMP) and foot placements based on the analytical solution. To validate the method, we conducted a push recovery experiment on real hardware. The result of the experiment shows that our new algorithm realizes a hierarchical strategy for disturbance compensation.


Title: Inclusion of Angular Momentum During Planning for Capture Point Based Walking
Abstract: When walking at high speeds, the swing legs of robots produce a non-negligible angular momentum rate. To accommodate this, we provide a reference trajectory generator for bipedal walking that incorporates predicted centroidal angular momentum at the planning stage. This can be done efficiently as the Centroidal Moment Pivot (CMP), Instantaneous Capture Point (ICP) and the center of mass (CoM) all have closed-form trajectory solutions due to their linear dynamics. This is then used to produce smooth, continuous trajectories. We furthermore provide a lightweight model to estimate angular momentum as induced during leg swing of the gait cycle. Our proposed trajectory generator is tested thoroughly in simulation and has been shown to successfully operate on the real hardware.


Title: Planning Ergonomic Sequences of Actions in Human-Robot Interaction
Abstract: In this paper, we define the problem of human-robot collaboration as a combined task and motion planning problem which is extended to the multi-agent case (human and robot). Our proposed approach allows us to explicitly take into account ergonomic cost, synchrony and concurrency of behavior in an optimization formulation. We show simulated results as well as an experiment with a real robot combined with a user study. Results show that optimizing over a sequence of actions leads to more ergonomic situations.


Title: Situation Assessment for Planning Lane Changes: Combining Recurrent Models and Prediction
Abstract: One of the greatest challenges towards fully autonomous cars is the understanding of complex and dynamic scenes. Such understanding is needed for planning of maneuvers, especially those that are particularly frequent such as lane changes. While in recent years advanced driver-assistance systems have made driving safer and more comfortable, these have mostly focused on car following scenarios, and less on maneuvers involving lane changes. In this work we propose a situation assessment algorithm for classifying driving situations with respect to their suitability for lane changing. For this, we propose a deep learning architecture based on a Bidirectional Recurrent Neural Network, which uses Long Short-Term Memory units, and integrates a prediction component in the form of the Intelligent Driver Model. We prove the feasibility of our algorithm on the publicly available NGSIM datasets, where we outperform existing methods.


Title: Optimal Active Sensing with Process and Measurement Noise
Abstract: The goal of this paper is to increase the estimation performance of an Extended Kalman Filter for a nonlinear differentially flat system by planning trajectories able to maximize the amount of information gathered by onboard sensors in presence of both process and measurement noises. In a previous work, we presented an online gradient descent method for planning optimal trajectories along which the smallest eigenvalue of the Observability Gramian (OG) is maximized. As the smallest eigenvalue of the OG is inversely proportional to the maximum estimation uncertainty, its maximization reduces the maximum estimation uncertainty of any estimation algorithm employed during motion. However, the OG does not consider the process noise that, instead, in several applications is far from being negligible. For this reason, this paper proposes a novel solution able to cope with non-negligible process noise: this is achieved by minimizing the largest eigenvalue of the a posteriori covariance matrix obtained by solving the Continuous Riccati Equation as a measure of the total available information. This minimization is expected to maximize the information gathered by the outputs while, at the same time, limiting as much as possible the negative effects of the process noise. We apply our method to a unicycle robot. The comparison between the novel method and the one of our previous work (which did not consider process noise) shows significant improvements in the obtained estimation accuracy.


Title: Joint Multi-Policy Behavior Estimation and Receding-Horizon Trajectory Planning for Automated Urban Driving
Abstract: When driving in urban environments, an autonomous vehicle must account for the interaction with other traffic participants. It must reason about their future behavior, how its actions affect their future behavior, and potentially consider multiple motion hypothesis. In this paper we introduce a method for joint behavior estimation and trajectory planning that models interaction and multi-policy decision-making. The method leverages Partially Observable Markov Decision Processes to estimate the behavior of other traffic participants given the planned trajectory for the ego-vehicle, and Receding-Horizon Control for generating safe trajectories for the ego-vehicle. To achieve safe navigation we introduce chance constraints over multiple motion policies in the receding-horizon planner. These constraints account for uncertainty over the behavior of other traffic participants. The method is capable of running in real-time and we show its performance and good scalability in simulated multi-vehicle intersection scenarios.


Title: Visual Saliency-Aware Receding Horizon Autonomous Exploration with Application to Aerial Robotics
Abstract: This paper presents a novel strategy for autonomous visual saliency-aware receding horizon exploration of unknown environments using aerial robots. Through a model of visual attention, incrementally built maps are annotated regarding the visual importance and saliency of different objects and entities in the environment. Provided this information, a path planner that simultaneously optimizes for exploration of unknown space, and also directs the robot's attention to focus on the most salient objects, is developed. Following a two-step optimization paradigm, the algorithm first samples a random tree and identifies the branch maximizing for new volume to be explored. The first viewpoint of this path is then provided as a reference to the second planning step. Within that, a new tree is spanned, admissible branches arriving at the reference viewpoint while respecting a time budget dependent on the robot endurance and its environment exploration rate are found and evaluated in terms of reobserving salient regions at sufficient resolution. The best branch is then selected and executed by the robot, and the whole process is iteratively repeated. The proposed method is evaluated regarding its ability to provide increased attention toward salient objects, is verified to run onboard a small aerial robot, and is demonstrated in a set of challenging experimental studies.


Title: High-Level MLN-Based Approach for Spatial Context Disambiguation
Abstract: In this paper, we propose a probabilistic MLN-based model for spatial context disambiguation. This model serves as a solution for the problem of incomplete knowledge in High-level task planning. By applying the state of the art MLN probabilistic reasoning such as MCSAT, we determine the concept class of the current spatial context of the robot and contribute by combining semantic spatial relations with observed data at different timesteps. The inherent uncertainty of robot dynamic environments makes the proposed approach suitable to deal with partial observability and sensing limitations of robots. Simulation experiments and evaluation results are presented to validate our model.


Title: Task-Specific Sensor Planning for Robotic Assembly Tasks
Abstract: When performing multi-robot tasks, sensory feedback is crucial in reducing uncertainty for correct execution. Yet the utilization of sensors should be planned as an integral part of the task planning, taken into account several factors such as the tolerance of different inferred properties of the scene and interaction with different agents. In this paper we handle this complex problem in a principled, yet efficient way. We use surrogate predictors based on open-loop simulation to estimate and bound the probability of success for specific tasks. We reason about such task-specific uncertainty approximants and their effectiveness. We show how they can be incorporated into a multi-robot planner, and demonstrate results with a team of robots performing assembly tasks.


Title: A Novel Recurrent Neural Network for Improving Redundant Manipulator Motion Planning Completeness
Abstract: Recurrent Neural Networks (RNNs) demonstrated advantages on control precision, system robustness and computational efficiency, and have been widely applied to redundant manipulator control optimization. Existing RNN control schemes locally optimize trajectories and are efficient and reliable on obstacle avoidance. However, for motion planning, they suffer from local minimum and do not have planning completeness. This work explained the cause of the planning incompleteness and addressed the problem with a novel RNN control scheme. The paper presented the proposed method in detail and analyzed the global stability and the planning completeness in theory. The proposed method was compared with other three control schemes on the precision, the robustness and the planning completeness in software simulation and the results shows the proposed method has improved precision and robustness, and planning completeness.


Title: Robust Collision Avoidance via Sliding Control
Abstract: Recent advances in perception and planning algorithms have enabled robots to navigate autonomously through unknown, cluttered environments at high-speeds. A key component of these systems is the ability to identify, select, and execute a safe trajectory around obstacles. Many of these systems, however, lack performance guarantees because model uncertainty and external disturbances are ignored when a trajectory is selected for execution. This work leverages results from nonlinear control theory to establish a bound on tracking performance that can be used to select a provably safe trajectory. The Composite Adaptive Sliding Controller (CASC) provides robustness to disturbances and reduces model uncertainty through high-rate parameter estimation. CASC is demonstrated in simulation and hardware to significantly improve the performance of a quadrotor navigating through unknown environments with external disturbances and unknown model parameters.


Title: Using a Memory of Motion to Efficiently Warm-Start a Nonlinear Predictive Controller
Abstract: Predictive control is an efficient model-based methodology to control complex dynamical systems. In general, it boils down to the resolution at each control cycle of a large nonlinear optimization problem. A critical issue is then to provide a good guess to initialize the nonlinear solver so as to speed up convergence. This is particularly important when disturbances or changes in the environment prevent the use of the trajectory computed at the previous control cycle as initial guess. In this paper, we introduce an original and very efficient solution to automatically build this initial guess. We propose to rely on off-line computation to build an approximation of the optimal trajectories, that can be used on-line to initialize the predictive controller. To that end, we combined the use of sampling-based planning, policy learning with generic representations (such as neural networks), and direct optimal control. We first propose an algorithm to simultaneously build a kinodynamic probabilistic roadmap (PRM) and approximate value function and control policy. This algorithm quickly converges toward an approximation of the optimal state-control trajectories (along with an optimal PRM). Then, we propose two methods to store the optimal trajectories and use them to initialize the predictive controller. We experimentally show that directly storing the state-control trajectories leads the predictive controller to quickly converges (2 to 5 iterations) toward the (global) optimal solution. The results are validated in simulation with an unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV) and other dynamical systems.


Title: Annotating Traversable Gaps in Walkable Environments
Abstract: Autonomous agents typically need a navigation mesh of a 3D virtual environment to allow efficient path planning. This mesh needs as input a continuous representation of the walkable areas. However, the walkable environment (WE), i.e. the parts of the 3D environment that an agent can walk on, may contain gaps. These may be due to the filtering steps performed to compute the WE, because of modelling errors in the 3D model, or simply be part of the geometry of the environment. We provide an algorithm that identifies and fills these gaps. We detect gaps, up to a given distance, between pairs of boundary edges of the walkable environment, and fill them with polygons. We employ a heuristic for choosing which pairs of edges should be connected. We compare our algorithm to Recast [10], a voxel-based method for navigation mesh generation. We find that our method gives more accurate results in many environments: it retains the exact representation of the walkable environment, semantically separates the gaps from the walkable areas, and requires no tweaking of parameters to obtain good results. However, our method is currently slower than Recast, and requires more memory.


Title: Topological Nearest-Neighbor Filtering for Sampling-Based Planners
Abstract: Nearest-neighbor finding is a major bottleneck for sampling-based motion planning algorithms. The cost of finding nearest neighbors grows with the size of the roadmap, leading to significant slowdowns for problems which require many configurations to find a solution. Prior work has investigated relieving this pressure with quicker computational techniques, such as kd-trees or locality-sensitive hashing. In this work, we investigate an alternative direction for expediting this process based on workspace connectivity. We present an algorithm called Topological Nearest-Neighbor Filtering, which employs a workspace decomposition to select a topologically relevant set of candidate neighbor configurations as a pre-processing step for a nearest-neighbor algorithm. We investigate the application of this filter to several varieties of RRT and demonstrate that the filter improves both nearest-neighbor time and overall planning performance.


Title: Integration of Local Geometry and Metric Information in Sampling-Based Motion Planning
Abstract: The efficiency of sampling-based motion planning algorithms is dependent on how well a steering procedure is capable of capturing both system dynamics and configuration space geometry to connect sample configurations. This paper considers how metrics describing local system dynamics may be combined with convex subsets of the free space to describe the local behavior of a steering function for sampling-based planners. Subsequently, a framework for using these subsets to extend the steering procedure to incorporate this information is introduced. To demonstrate our framework, three specific metrics are considered: the LQR cost-to-go function, a Gram matrix derived from system linearization, and the Mahalanobis distance of a linear-Gaussian system. Finally, numerical tests are conducted for a second-order linear system, a kinematic unicycle, and a linear-Gaussian system to demonstrate that our framework increases the connectivity of sampling-based planners and allows them to better explore the free space.


Title: Affordance-Based Multi-Contact Whole-Body Pose Sequence Planning for Humanoid Robots in Unknown Environments
Abstract: Despite impressive advances of humanoid robotics, the autonomous planning of whole-body loco-manipulation actions in unknown environments is still an open problem. In our previous work, we addressed two fundamental aspects related to this problem: 1) the autonomous detection of end-effector contact opportunities in unknown environments and 2) the goal-directed planning of multi-contact pose sequences, which can serve as the starting point for motion planning and control approaches of reduced complexity. Both problems suffer from the extensive amounts of possible solutions, particularly due to the complexity of humanoid robots and the multitude of available contact opportunities. In this paper, we propose a method for the planning of whole-body multi-contact tasks based on our previous work on vision-based detection of loco-manipulation affordances and whole-body multi-contact pose sequence planning. We demonstrate a combined approach for planning multi-contact pose sequences with a focus on the utilization of available end-effectors for stabilizing contacts with the environment during loco-manipulation tasks. The method is evaluated in simulation in multiple exemplary scenarios based on actual sensor data and the humanoid robot ARMAR-4.


Title: Simultaneous Planning and Estimation Based on Physics Reasoning in Robot Manipulation
Abstract: For robots to autonomously achieve manipulation tasks in various scenes, advanced operational skills such as tool use, learning from demonstration, and multi-robot/human-robot cooperation are necessary. In this research, we devise a method for robots to realize such operational skills in a unified manner by evaluating physical consistency (referred to as “physics reasoning”) based on the formulation of the manipulation statics constraints. First, we propose manipulation planning and estimation methods in which the operational feasibility and properties' likelihood are derived by physics reasoning. In addition, we propose a framework to manipulate an object with unknown physical properties by executing planning and estimation both sequentially and in parallel. We demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed methods by performing experiments in which real humanoid robots achieve various manipulation tasks with advanced operational skills.


Title: Joining High-Level Symbolic Planning with Low-Level Motion Primitives in Adaptive HRI: Application to Dressing Assistance
Abstract: For a safe and successful daily living assistance, far from the highly controlled environment of a factory, robots should be able to adapt to ever-changing situations. Programming such a robot is a tedious process that requires expert knowledge. An alternative is to rely on a high-level planner, but the generic symbolic representations used are not well suited to particular robot executions. Contrarily, motion primitives encode robot motions in a way that can be easily adapted to different situations. This paper presents a combined framework that exploits the advantages of both approaches. The number of required symbolic states is reduced, as motion primitives provide “smart actions” that take the current state and cope online with variations. Symbolic actions can include interactions (e.g., ask and inform) that are difficult to demonstrate. We show that the proposed framework can adapt to the user preferences (in terms of robot speed and robot verbosity), can readjust the trajectories based on the user movements, and can handle unforeseen situations. Experiments are performed in a shoe-dressing scenario. This scenario is particularly interesting because it involves a sufficient number of actions, and the human-robot interaction requires the handling of user preferences and unexpected reactions.


Title: Fast Object Learning and Dual-arm Coordination for Cluttered Stowing, Picking, and Packing
Abstract: Robotic picking from cluttered bins is a demanding task, for which Amazon Robotics holds challenges. The 2017 Amazon Robotics Challenge (ARC) required stowing items into a storage system, picking specific items, and packing them into boxes. In this paper, we describe the entry of team NimbRo Picking. Our deep object perception pipeline can be quickly and efficiently adapted to new items using a custom turntable capture system and transfer learning. It produces high-quality item segments, on which grasp poses are found. A planning component coordinates manipulation actions between two robot arms, minimizing execution time. The system has been demonstrated successfully at ARC, where our team reached second places in both the picking task and the final stow-and-pick task. We also evaluate individual components.


Title: Modeling Driver Behavior from Demonstrations in Dynamic Environments Using Spatiotemporal Lattices
Abstract: One of the most challenging tasks in the development of path planners for intelligent vehicles is the design of the cost function that models the desired behavior of the vehicle. While this task has been traditionally accomplished by hand-tuning the model parameters, recent approaches propose to learn the model automatically from demonstrated driving data using Inverse Reinforcement Learning (IRL). To determine if the model has correctly captured the demonstrated behavior, most IRL methods require obtaining a policy by solving the forward control problem repetitively. Calculating the full policy is a costly task in continuous or large domains and thus often approximated by finding a single trajectory using traditional path-planning techniques. In this work, we propose to find such a trajectory using a conformal spatiotemporal state lattice, which offers two main advantages. First, by conforming the lattice to the environment, the search is focused only on feasible motions for the robot, saving computational power. And second, by considering time as part of the state, the trajectory is optimized with respect to the motion of the dynamic obstacles in the scene. As a consequence, the resulting trajectory can be used for the model assessment. We show how the proposed IRL framework can successfully handle highly dynamic environments by modeling the highway tactical driving task from demonstrated driving data gathered with an instrumented vehicle.


Title: Multimodal Probabilistic Model-Based Planning for Human-Robot Interaction
Abstract: This paper presents a method for constructing human-robot interaction policies in settings where multimodality, i.e., the possibility of multiple highly distinct futures, plays a critical role in decision making. We are motivated in this work by the example of traffic weaving, e.g., at highway on-ramps/off-ramps, where entering and exiting cars must swap lanes in a short distance-a challenging negotiation even for experienced drivers due to the inherent multimodal uncertainty of who will pass whom. Our approach is to learn multimodal probability distributions over future human actions from a dataset of human-human exemplars and perform real-time robot policy construction in the resulting environment model through massively parallel sampling of human responses to candidate robot action sequences. Direct learning of these distributions is made possible by recent advances in the theory of conditional variational autoencoders (CVAEs), whereby we learn action distributions simultaneously conditioned on the present interaction history, as well as candidate future robot actions in order to take into account response dynamics. We demonstrate the efficacy of this approach with a human-in-the-loop simulation of a traffic weaving scenario.


Title: Visual Grasping for a Lightweight Aerial Manipulator Based on NSGA-II and Kinematic Compensation
Abstract: The grasping control of an aerial manipulator in practical environments is challenging due to its complex kinematics/dynamics and motion constraints. This paper introduces a lightweight aerial manipulator, which is combined with an X8 coaxial octocopter and a 4-DoF manipulator. To address the grasping control problem, we develop an efficient scheme containing trajectory generation, visual trajectory tracking, and kinematic compensation. The NSGA-II method is utilized to implement the multiobjective optimization for trajectory planning. Motion constraints and collision avoidance are also considered in the optimization. A kinematic compensation-based visual trajectory tracking is introduced to address the coupled nature between manipulator and VAV body. No dynamic parameter calibration is needed. Finally, several experiments are performed to verify the stability and feasibility of the proposed approach.


Title: Learning Robotic Assembly from CAD
Abstract: In this work, motivated by recent manufacturing trends, we investigate autonomous robotic assembly. Industrial assembly tasks require contact-rich manipulation skills, which are challenging to acquire using classical control and motion planning approaches. Consequently, robot controllers for assembly domains are presently engineered to solve a particular task, and cannot easily handle variations in the product or environment. Reinforcement learning (RL) is a promising approach for autonomously acquiring robot skills that involve contact-rich dynamics. However, RL relies on random exploration for learning a control policy, which requires many robot executions, and often gets trapped in locally suboptimal solutions. Instead, we posit that prior knowledge, when available, can improve RL performance. We exploit the fact that in modern assembly domains, geometric information about the task is readily available via the CAD design files. We propose to leverage this prior knowledge by guiding RL along a geometric motion plan, calculated using the CAD data. We show that our approach effectively improves over traditional control approaches for tracking the motion plan, and can solve assembly tasks that require high precision, even without accurate state estimation. In addition, we propose a neural network architecture that can learn to track the motion plan, thereby generalizing the assembly controller to changes in the object positions.


Title: A General and Flexible Search Framework for Disassembly Planning
Abstract: We present a new general framework for disassembly sequence planning. This framework is versatile allowing different types of search schemes (exhaustive vs. preemptive), various part separation techniques, and the ability to group parts, or not, into subassemblies to improve the solution efficiency and parallelism. This enables a truly hierarchical approach to disassembly sequence planning. We demonstrate two different search strategies using this framework that can either yield a single solution quickly or provide a spectrum of solutions from which an optimal may be selected. We also develop a method for subassembly identification based on collision information. Our results show improved performance over an iterative motion planning based method for finding a single solution and greater functionality through hierarchical planning and optimal solution search.


Title: Incorporating Potential Contingency Tasks in Multi-Robot Mission Planning
Abstract: In most complex missions, unexpected situations arise that may interfere with the planned execution of mission tasks. These situations result in the generation of contingency tasks that need to be executed before the originally planned tasks are completed. Potential contingency tasks may not always affect mission tasks due to the inherent uncertainty in the environment. Deferring action on a potential contingency task may incur a penalty in terms of wasted time due to idle robots if the contingency task becomes a bottleneck in the future. On the other hand, immediate action on a potential contingency task may incur a penalty in terms of wasted time if the contingency task did not actually impact the mission. When a contingency task is reported, the planner generates an updated plan that minimizes expected mission completion time by taking into account the probability of the contingency task impacting mission tasks, its effect on the mission, and its spatial location. We have characterized the performance of the algorithm through simulation experiments. We show that the proactive approach to contingency task management outperforms a conservative approach.


Title: Translating Videos to Commands for Robotic Manipulation with Deep Recurrent Neural Networks
Abstract: We present a new method to translate videos to commands for robotic manipulation using Deep Recurrent Neural Networks (RNN). Our framework first extracts deep features from the input video frames with a deep Convolutional Neural Networks (CNN). Two RNN layers with an encoder-decoder architecture are then used to encode the visual features and sequentially generate the output words as the command. We demonstrate that the translation accuracy can be improved by allowing a smooth transaction between two RNN layers and using the state-of-the-art feature extractor. The experimental results on our new challenging dataset show that our approach outperforms recent methods by a fair margin. Furthermore, we combine the proposed translation module with the vision and planning system to let a robot perform various manipulation tasks. Finally, we demonstrate the effectiveness of our framework on a full-size humanoid robot WALK-MAN.


Title: Topomap: Topological Mapping and Navigation Based on Visual SLAM Maps
Abstract: Visual robot navigation within large-scale, semistructured environments deals with various challenges such as computation intensive path planning algorithms or insufficient knowledge about traversable spaces. Moreover, many state-of-the-art navigation approaches only operate locally instead of gaining a more conceptual understanding of the planning objective. This limits the complexity of tasks a robot can accomplish and makes it harder to deal with uncertainties that are present in the context of real-time robotics applications. In this work, we present Topomap, a framework which simplifies the navigation task by providing a map to the robot which is tailored for path planning use. This novel approach transforms a sparse feature-based map from a visual Simultaneous Localization And Mapping (SLAM) system into a three-dimensional topological map. This is done in two steps. First, we extract occupancy information directly from the noisy sparse point cloud. Then, we create a set of convex free-space clusters, which are the vertices of the topological map. We show that this representation improves the efficiency of global planning, and we provide a complete derivation of our algorithm. Planning experiments on real world datasets demonstrate that we achieve similar performance as RRT* with significantly lower computation times and storage requirements. Finally, we test our algorithm on a mobile robotic platform to prove its advantages.


Title: Talk Resource-Efficiently to Me: Optimal Communication Planning for Distributed Loop Closure Detection
Abstract: Due to the distributed nature of cooperative simultaneous localization and mapping (CSLAM), detecting inter-robot loop closures necessitates sharing sensory data with other robots. A naïve approach to data sharing can easily lead to a waste of mission-critical resources. This paper investigates the logistical aspects of CSLAM. Particularly, we present a general resource-efficient communication planning framework that takes into account both the total amount of exchanged data and the induced division of labor between the participating robots. Compared to other state-of-the-art approaches, our framework is able to verify the same set of potential inter-robot loop closures while exchanging considerably less data and influencing the induced workloads. We develop a fast algorithm for finding globally optimal communication policies, and present theoretical analysis to characterize the necessary and sufficient conditions under which simpler strategies are optimal. The proposed framework is extensively evaluated with data from the KITTI odometry benchmark datasets.


Title: Vision Based Collaborative Path Planning for Micro Aerial Vehicles
Abstract: In this paper, we present a collaborative path-planning framework for a group of micro aerial vehicles that are capable of localizing through vision. Each of the micro aerial vehicles is assumed to be equipped with a forward facing monocular camera. The vehicles initially use their captured images to build 3D maps through common features; and subsequently track these features to localize through 3D-2D correspondences. The planning algorithm, while connecting start locations to provided goal locations, also aims to reduce the localization uncertainty of the vehicles in the group. To achieve this, we develop a two-step planning framework: the first step attempts to build an improved map of the environment by solving the next-best-view problem for multiple cameras. We express this as a black-box optimization problem and solve it using the Covariance Matrix Adaption evolution strategy (CMA-ES). Once an improved map is available, the second stage of the planning framework performs belief space planning for the vehicles individually using the rapidly exploring random belief tree (RRBT) algorithm. Through the RRBT approach, the planner generates paths that ensure feature visibility while attempting to optimize path cost and reduce localization uncertainty. We validate our approach using experiments conducted in a high visual-fidelity aerial vehicle simulator, Microsoft AirSim.


Title: Marker-Based Registration for Large Deformations - Application to Open Liver Surgery
Abstract: This paper introduces an Augmented Reality (AR) system for open liver surgery. Although open surgery remains the gold-standard for the treatment of complex tumors and central lesions, technological issues actually prevent using AR with sufficient accuracy for clinical use. We propose a markers-based method allowing for the tracking and the deformation of a preoperative model in real-time during the surgery. Markers are manually placed on the surface of the organ after opening the abdominal cavity, and tracked in real-time by a set of infrared cameras. Our framework is composed of both a nonrigid initial registration method, providing an estimation of the location of the markers in the preoperative model, and a realtime tracking algorithm to deform the model during the surgery (even for large deformation or partial occlusion of the organ). The method is validated on both synthetic and ex-vivo samples; in addition, we demonstrate its applicability in the operating room during a liver resection surgery on a human patient. Preliminary studies provided promising results to improve the location of tumors, and to help surgeons into planning the ideal resection intraoperatively.


Title: Obstacle-Aided Navigation of a Soft Growing Robot
Abstract: For many types of robots, avoiding obstacles is necessary to prevent damage to the robot and environment. As a result, obstacle avoidance has historically been an important problem in robot path planning and control. Soft robots represent a paradigm shift with respect to obstacle avoidance because their low mass and compliant bodies can make collisions with obstacles inherently safe. Here we consider the benefits of intentional obstacle collisions for soft robot navigation. We develop and experimentally verify a model of robot-obstacle interaction for a tip-extending soft robot. Building on the obstacle interaction model, we develop an algorithm to determine the path of a growing robot that takes into account obstacle collisions. We find that obstacle collisions can be beneficial for open-loop navigation of growing robots because the obstacles passively steer the robot, both reducing the uncertainty of the location of the robot and directing the robot to targets that do not lie on a straight path from the starting point. Our work shows that for a robot with predictable and safe interactions with obstacles, target locations in a cluttered, mapped environment can be reached reliably by simply setting the initial trajectory. This has implications for the control and design of robots with minimal active steering.


Title: Reinforcement Learning for 4-Finger-Gripper Manipulation
Abstract: In the framework of robotics, Reinforcement Learning (RL) deals with the learning of a task by the robot itself. This paper presents a hierarchical-planning approach in which the robot learns the optimal behavior for different levels in a decoupled way. For high-level discrete actions, Q-learning was chosen, whereas for the low level we utilize Policy Improvement with Path Integrals (PI2) algorithm to learn the parameters of policies, represented by rhythmic Dynamic Movement Primitives (DMPs). The paper studies the case of a 4-finger-gripper manipulator, which performs the task of continuously spinning a ball around a desired axis. The results demonstrate the efficacy of the hierarchical planning and the increased performance of the task when PI2 is used in conjunction with rhythmic DMPs in a real environment.


Title: Clothoid-Based Global Path Planning for Autonomous Vehicles in Urban Scenarios
Abstract: Intelligent vehicles require an efficient way to compute a feasible path that connects its current localization to a destination point. To achieve that, the knowledge about the road network, including its geometry, is important since connections between roads can be used in the path planning. This work consists on computing a feasible global path for autonomous vehicles with kinematic constraints. Piecewise linear continuous-curvature paths composed of clothoids, circular arcs, and straight lines are used for this purpose. Low curvature derivatives provide comfort to passengers. This approach provides a compact road network representation as only the parameters of the curves are stored. A real urban scenario with straight and curved roads, multiple lanes, intersections, and roundabouts is modeled and the proposed approach is validated. As a result of the proposed approaches, door-to-door global continuous-curvature paths are generated considering the shortest traveled distance.


Title: Surface-Based Exploration for Autonomous 3D Modeling
Abstract: In this study, we addressed a path planning problem of a mobile robot to construct highly accurate 3D models of an unknown environment. Most studies have focused on exploration approaches, which find the most informative viewpoint or trajectories by analyzing a volumetric map. However, the completion of a volumetric map does not necessarily describe the completion of a 3D model. A highly complicated structure sometimes cannot be represented as a volumetric model. We propose a novel exploration algorithm that considers not only a volumetric map but also reconstructed surfaces. Unlike previous approaches, we evaluate the model completeness according to the quality of the reconstructed surfaces and extract low-confidence surfaces. The surface information is used to guide the computation of the exploration path. Experimental results showed that the proposed algorithm performed better than other state-of-the-art exploration methods and especially improved the completeness and confidence of the 3D models.


Title: A Single-Planner Approach to Multi-Modal Humanoid Mobility
Abstract: In this work, we present an approach to planning for humanoid mobility. Humanoid mobility is a challenging problem, as the configuration space for a humanoid robot is intractably large, especially if the robot is capable of performing many types of locomotion. For example, a humanoid robot may be able to perform such tasks as bipedal walking, crawling, and climbing. Our approach is to plan for all these tasks within a single search process. This allows the search to reason about all the capabilities of the robot at any point, and to derive the complete solution such that the plan is guaranteed to be feasible. A key observation is that we often can roughly decompose a mobility task into a sequence of smaller tasks, and focus planning efforts to reason over much smaller search spaces. To this end, we leverage the results of a recently developed framework for planning with adaptive dimensionality, and incorporate the capabilities of available controllers directly into the planning process. The resulting planner can also be run in an interleaved fashion alongside execution so that time spent idle is much reduced.


Title: Information Based Mobile Sensor Planning for Source Term Estimation of a Non-Continuous Atmospheric Release
Abstract: Ahstract- This paper presents a method to estimate the original location and the mass of an instantaneous release of hazardous material into the atmosphere. It is formulated as an inverse problem, where concentration observations from a mobile sensor are fused with meteorological information and a Gaussian puff dispersion model to characterise the source. Bayes' theorem is used to estimate the parameters of the release taking into account the uncertainty that exists in the dispersion parameters and meteorological variables. An information based reward is used to guide an unmanned aerial vehicle equipped with a chemical sensor to the expected most informative measurement locations. Simulation results compare the performance between a single mobile sensor with various amounts of static sensors.


Title: Collision-Free Motion Planning for Human-Robot Collaborative Safety Under Cartesian Constraint
Abstract: This paper presents a real-time motion planning and control design of a robotic arm for human-robot collaborative safety. A novel collision-free motion planning method is proposed not only to keep robot body from colliding with objects but also preserve the execution of robot's original task under the Cartesian constraint of the environment. Multiple KinectV2 depth cameras are utilized to model and track dynamic obstacles (e.g. Humans and objects) inside the robot workspace. Depth images are applied to generate point cloud of segmented objects in the environment. A K-nearest neighbor (KNN) searching algorithm is used to cluster and find the closest point from the obstacle to the robot. Then a Kalman filter is applied to estimate the obstacle position and velocity. For the collision avoidance in collaborative operation, attractive and repulsive potential is generated for robot end effector based on the task specification and obstacle observation. Practical experiments show that the 6-DOF robot arm can effectively avoid an obstacle in a constrained environment and complete the original task.


Title: Sampling-Based Motion Planning with μ-Calculus Specifications Without Steering
Abstract: While using temporal logic specifications with motion planning has been heavily researched, the reliance on having an available steering function is impractical and often suited only to basic problems with linear dynamics. This is because a steering function is a solution to an optimal two-point boundary value problem (OBVP); to our knowledge, it is nearly impossible to find an analytic solution to such problems in many cases. Addressing this issue, we have developed a means of combining the asymptotically optimal and probabilistically complete kinodynamic planning algorithm SST* with a local deterministic μ-calculus model checking procedure to create a motion planning algorithm with deterministic μ-calculus specifications that does not rely on a steering function. The procedure involves combining only the most pertinent information from multiple Kripke structures in order to create one abstracted Kripke structure storing the best paths to all possible proposition regions of the state-space. A linear-quadratic regulator (LQR) feedback control policy is then used to track these best paths, effectively connecting the trajectories found from multiple Kripke structures. Simulations demonstrate that it is possible to satisfy a complex liveness specification for infinitely often reaching specified regions of state-space using only forward propagation.


Title: Learning to Parse Natural Language to Grounded Reward Functions with Weak Supervision
Abstract: In order to intuitively and efficiently collaborate with humans, robots must learn to complete tasks specified using natural language. We represent natural language instructions as goal-state reward functions specified using lambda calculus. Using reward functions as language representations allows robots to plan efficiently in stochastic environments. To map sentences to such reward functions, we learn a weighted linear Combinatory Categorial Grammar (CCG) semantic parser. The parser, including both parameters and the CCG lexicon, is learned from a validation procedure that does not require execution of a planner, annotating reward functions, or labeling parse trees, unlike prior approaches. To learn a CCG lexicon and parse weights, we use coarse lexical generation and validation-driven perceptron weight updates using the approach of Artzi and Zettlemoyer [4]. We present results on the Cleanup World domain [18] to demonstrate the potential of our approach. We report an F1 score of 0.82 on a collected corpus of 23 tasks containing combinations of nested referential expressions, comparators and object properties with 2037 corresponding sentences. Our goal-condition learning approach enables an improvement of orders of magnitude in computation time over a baseline that performs planning during learning, while achieving comparable results. Further, we conduct an experiment with just 6 labeled demonstrations to show the ease of teaching a robot behaviors using our method. We show that parsing models learned from small data sets can generalize to commands not seen during training.


Title: Joint Long-Term Prediction of Human Motion Using a Planning-Based Social Force Approach
Abstract: The ability to perceive and predict future positions of dynamic objects is essential for mobile robots and intelligent vehicles in dynamic environments. In this paper, we present a novel planning-based approach for long-term human motion prediction that accounts for local interactions and can accurately predict joint motion of multiple agents. Long-term predictions are handled using an MDP formulation that computes a set of stochastic motion policies. To obtain distributions over future motion trajectories, we sample the policies with a weighted random walk algorithm in which each person is locally influenced by social forces from other nearby agents. Unlike related work, the algorithm is environment-aware, can account for individual agent velocities, requires no training phase and makes joint predictions for multiple agents. Experiments in simulation and with real data show that our method makes more accurate predictions than two state-of-the-art methods in terms of probabilistic and geometrical performance measures.


Title: Multi-Robot Coordination in Dynamic Environments Shared with Humans
Abstract: This work addresses multi-robot coordination in social human-populated environments using a market-based framework for solving the Multi-Robot Task Allocation (MRTA) problem. Humans are considered in the proposed coordination mechanism by means of accounting for social costs in bid evaluations and requesting collaboration in socially blocking situations. Initially, the effect of a realistic environment with varying number of static/moving humans on the behavior and performance of our method is studied through an extensive suite of experiments in a high-fidelity simulator. Results show that the total traveled distance and time are increased when humans are present in the environments. Localization noise is also increased particularly in the case of static people. In the second series of experiments, a number of problematic cases resulting in longer modified paths, blocked passages, and long waits have been investigated. A comparative study targeting human-agnostic navigation and planning, human-aware navigation and human-agnostic planning, and human-aware navigation and planning has been conducted. Both simulated and real robot experiments confirm the effectiveness of accounting for humans at both team and individual levels. This leads to respecting social constraints as well as achieving a better performance based on MRTA metrics.


Title: Footstep Planning in Rough Terrain for Bipedal Robots Using Curved Contact Patches
Abstract: Bipedal robots have gained a lot of locomotion capabilities the past few years, especially in the control level. Navigation over complex and unstructured environments using exteroceptive perception, is still an active research topic. In this paper, we present a footstep planning system to produce foothold placements, using visual perception and proper environment modeling, given a black box walking controller. In particular, we extend a state-of-the-art search-based planning approach (ARA*) that produces 6DoF footstep sequences in 3D space for flat uneven terrain, to also handle rough curved surfaces, e.g. rocks. This is achieved by integrating both a curved patch modeling system for rough local terrain surfaces and a flat foothold contact analysis based on visual range input data, into the existing planning framework. The system is experimentally validated using real-world point clouds, while rough terrain stepping demonstrations are presented on the WALK-MAN humanoid robot, in simulation.


Title: Safe Distributed Lane Change Maneuvers for Multiple Autonomous Vehicles Using Buffered Input Cells
Abstract: This paper introduces the Buffered Input Cell as a reciprocal collision avoidance method for multiple vehicles with high-order linear dynamics, extending recently proposed methods based on the Buffered Voronoi Cell [1] and generalized Voronoi diagrams [2]. We prove that if each vehicle's control input remains in its Buffered Input Cell at each time step, collisions will be avoided indefinitely. The method is fast, reactive, and only requires that each vehicle measures the relative position of neighboring vehicles. We incorporate this collision avoidance method as one layer of a complete lane change control stack for autonomous cars in a freeway driving scenario. The lane change control stack comprises a decision-making layer, a trajectory planning layer, a trajectory following feedback controller, and the Buffered Input Cell for collision avoidance. We show in simulations that collisions are avoided with multiple vehicles simultaneously changing lanes on a freeway. We also show in simulations that autonomous cars using the BIC method effectively avoid collisions with an aggressive human-driven car.


Title: Dry Stacking for Automated Construction with Irregular Objects
Abstract: We describe a method for automatically building structures from stacked, irregularly shaped objects. This is a simplified model for the problem of building dry stacked structures (i.e. no mortar) from found stones. Although automating such construction methods would be ideally suited for disaster areas or remote environments, currently such structures need to be built by skilled masons. No practical methods for automating the assembly planning process are known. The problem is challenging since each assembly action can be drawn from a continuous space poses for an object and several local geometric and physical considerations strongly affect the overall stability. We show that structures that are built following a stacking order for perfect bricks can accommodate a limited amount of irregularity, however, their performance degrades quickly when objects deviate from their ideal shape. We present a strategy for stacking irregular shapes that first considers geometric and physical constraints to find a small set of feasible actions and then further refines this set by using heuristics gathered from instructional literature for masons. The proposed method of choosing assembly actions allows construction with objects that contain a significant amount of variation.


Title: Optimal Path Planning in Time-Varying Flows with Forecasting Uncertainties
Abstract: Uncertainties in flow models have to be explicitly considered for effective path planning in marine environments. In this paper, we present two methods to compute minimum expected cost policies and paths over an uncertain flow model. The first method based on a Markov Decision Process computes a minimum expected cost policy while the second graph search based method, computes a minimum expected cost path. A transition probability model is developed to compute the probability of transition from one state to another under a given action. In addition, a method to compute the expected cost of a path when it is executed in an uncertain flow field is also presented. The two methods are used to compute minimum energy paths in an ocean environment and the results are analyzed in simulations.


Title: Topological Hotspot Identification for Informative Path Planning with a Marine Robot
Abstract: In this work, we present a novel method for constructing a topological map of biological hotspots in an aquatic environment using a Fast Marching-based Voronoi segmentation. Using this topological map, we develop a closed form solution to the scheduling problem for any single path through the graph. Searching over the space of all paths allows us to compute a maximally informative path that traverses a subset of the hotspots, given some budget. Using a greedy-coverage algorithm we can then compute an informative path. We evaluate our method in a set of simulated trials, both with randomly generated environments and a real-world environment. In these trials, we show that our method produces a topological graph which more accurately captures features in the environment than standard thresholding techniques. Additionally, We show that our method can improve the performance of a greedy-coverage algorithm in the informative path planning problem by guiding it to different informative areas to help it escape from local maxima.


Title: Inertial Parameters Identification of a Humanoid Robot Hanged to a Fix Force Sensor
Abstract: Knowledge of the mass and inertial parameters of a humanoid robot is crucial for the development of model-based controller and motion planning in dynamics situation. Parameters are usually provided from Computer Aided Design (CAD) data and thus inaccurate specially if the robot is modified over time. In this paper, a practical method consisting of hanging a humanoid robot to a fix force sensor to perform its dynamic identification is proposed. This allows, contrary to the literature, to generate very exciting and dynamic motions to identify most of the elements of the inertia tensors in a reduced amount of time. This procedure transforms an instable floating base legged humanoid robot to a safe fix base tree structure robot which makes easier to generate optimal exciting motions. Because of a better excitation the overall trajectory lasts for less than a minute. The method was experimentally validated with a HOAP3 humanoid robot and using a 6-axis force sensor. A reduction of 3 times in average of the RMS difference between measured external reaction forces and moments and their estimates from CAD data was obtained with a single minute of optimal exciting motions.


Title: A Scalable Multi-Robot Task Allocation Algorithm
Abstract: In modern warehouses, robots are being deployed to perform complex tasks such as fetching a set of objects from various locations in a warehouse to a docking station. This requires a careful task allocation along with route planning such that the total distance traveled (cost) is minimized. The number of tasks that can be performed by a robot on a single route depends on the maximum capacity of the robot and the combined weight of the objects it picks on the route. This task allocation problem is an instance of the Capacity-constrained Vehicle Routing Problem (CVRP), which is known to be NP-hard. Although, there exist a number of heuristics that provide near-optimal solutions to a CVRP instance, they do not scale well with the task size (number of nodes). In this paper, we present a heuristic, called nearest-neighbor based Clustering And Routing (nCAR), which has better execution time compared to the state-of-the-art heuristics. Also, our heuristic reduces cost of the solutions when there are a large number of nodes. We compare the performance of nCAR with the Google OR-Tools and found a speedup of 6 in runtime when task size is 2000. Though OR-Tools provides a low-cost solution for small number of tasks, it's execution time and number of routes is 1.5 times that of nCAR.


Title: Distributed Intermittent Communication Control of Mobile Robot Networks Under Time-Critical Dynamic Tasks
Abstract: In this paper, we develop a distributed intermittent communication framework for teams of mobile robots that are responsible for accomplishing time-critical dynamic tasks and sharing the collected information with all other robots and possibly also with a user. Specifically, we consider situations where the robot communication capabilities are not sufficient to maintain reliable and connected networks while the robots move to accomplish their tasks. In this case, intermittent communication protocols are necessary that allow the robots to temporarily disconnect from the network in order to accomplish their tasks free of communication constraints. We assume that the robots can only communicate with each other when they meet at common locations in space. Our proposed distributed control framework determines offline schedules of communication events and integrates them online with task planning. The resulting paths ensure task accomplishment and exchange of information among robots infinitely often at locations that minimize a user-specified metric. Simulation results corroborate the proposed distributed control framework.


Title: PRM-RL: Long-range Robotic Navigation Tasks by Combining Reinforcement Learning and Sampling-Based Planning
Abstract: We present PRM-RL, a hierarchical method for long-range navigation task completion that combines sampling-based path planning with reinforcement learning (RL). The RL agents learn short-range, point-to-point navigation policies that capture robot dynamics and task constraints without knowledge of the large-scale topology. Next, the sampling-based planners provide roadmaps which connect robot configurations that can be successfully navigated by the RL agent. The same RL agents are used to control the robot under the direction of the planning, enabling long-range navigation. We use the Probabilistic Roadmaps (PRMs) for the sampling-based planner. The RL agents are constructed using feature-based and deep neural net policies in continuous state and action spaces. We evaluate PRM-RL, both in simulation and on-robot, on two navigation tasks with non-trivial robot dynamics: end-to-end differential drive indoor navigation in office environments, and aerial cargo delivery in urban environments with load displacement constraints. Our results show improvement in task completion over both RL agents on their own and traditional sampling-based planners. In the indoor navigation task, PRM-RL successfully completes up to 215 m long trajectories under noisy sensor conditions, and the aerial cargo delivery completes flights over 1000 m without violating the task constraints in an environment 63 million times larger than used in training.


Title: Self-Supervised Deep Reinforcement Learning with Generalized Computation Graphs for Robot Navigation
Abstract: Enabling robots to autonomously navigate complex environments is essential for real-world deployment. Prior methods approach this problem by having the robot maintain an internal map of the world, and then use a localization and planning method to navigate through the internal map. However, these approaches often include a variety of assumptions, are computationally intensive, and do not learn from failures. In contrast, learning-based methods improve as the robot acts in the environment, but are difficult to deploy in the real-world due to their high sample complexity. To address the need to learn complex policies with few samples, we propose a generalized computation graph that subsumes value-based model-free methods and model-based methods, with specific instantiations interpolating between model-free and model-based. We then instantiate this graph to form a navigation model that learns from raw images and is sample efficient. Our simulated car experiments explore the design decisions of our navigation model, and show our approach outperforms single-step and N-step double Q-learning. We also evaluate our approach on a real-world RC car and show it can learn to navigate through a complex indoor environment with a few hours of fully autonomous, self-supervised training. Videos of the experiments and code can be found at github.com/gkahn13/gcg.


Title: Efficient Active SLAM Based on Submap Joining, Graph Topology and Convex Optimization
Abstract: The active SLAM problem considered in this paper aims to plan a robot trajectory for simultaneous localization and mapping (SLAM) as well as for an area coverage task with robot pose uncertainty. Based on a model predictive control (MPC) framework, these two problems are solved respectively by different methods. For the uncertainty minimization MPC problem, based on the graphical structure of the 2D feature-based SLAM, a non-convex constrained least-squares problem is presented to approximate the original problem. Then, using variable substitutions, it is further transformed into a convex problem, and then solved by a convex optimization method. For the coverage task considering robot pose uncertainty, it is formulated and solved by the MPC framework and the sequential quadratic programming (SQP) method. In the whole process, considering the computation complexity, we use linear SLAM, which is a submap joining approach, to reduce the time for planning and estimation. Finally, various simulations are presented to validate the effectiveness of the proposed approach.


Title: Model Predictive Control of a Multi-Rotor with a Suspended Load for Avoiding Obstacles
Abstract: This paper investigates a multi-rotor with a suspended load in perspectives of 1) real-time path planning, 2) obstacle avoidance, and 3) transportation of a suspended object. A suspended load cannot be controlled with conventional controllers designed for nominal multi-rotors due to the dynamic coupling between the multi-rotor and load. Although several control and planning algorithms have been proposed based on elaborately derived dynamic equations, most existing studies separate control and path planning problems by following predefined trajectories after trajectory generation. Moreover, many state-of-the-art trajectory generation algorithms cannot work real-time for a system with high degrees of freedom, which makes it not suitable to operate the system in dynamic environments where obstacles appear abruptly or move unexpectedly. With this in mind, we apply Model Predictive Control (MPC) with Sequential Linear Quadratic (SLQ) solver to compute feasible and optimal trajectory real-time and to operate a multi-rotor with a suspended load in dynamic environments. We design an obstacle-avoidance algorithm suitable for the current platform flying in cluttered environments. Flight experiments shows that the proposed algorithm successfully controls the multi-rotor and allows to avoid obstacles simultaneously.


Title: Robust, Compliant Assembly via Optimal Belief Space Planning
Abstract: In automated manufacturing, robots must reliably assemble parts of various geometries and low tolerances. Ideally, they plan the required motions autonomously. This poses a substantial challenge due to high-dimensional state spaces and non-linear contact-dynamics. Furthermore, object poses and model parameters, such as friction, are not exactly known and a source of uncertainty. The method proposed in this paper models the task of parts assembly as a belief space planning problem over an underlying impedance-controlled, compliant system. To solve this planning problem we introduce an asymptotically optimal belief space planner by extending an optimal, randomized, kinodynamic motion planner to nondeterministic domains. Under an expansiveness assumption we establish probabilistic completeness and asymptotic optimality. We validate our approach in thorough, simulated and realworld experiments of multiple assembly tasks. The experiments demonstrate our planner's ability to reliably assemble objects, solely based on CAD models as input.


Title: Realtime Planning for High-DOF Deformable Bodies Using Two-Stage Learning
Abstract: We present a method for planning the motion of arbitrarily-shaped volumetric deformable bodies or robots through complex environments. Such robots have very high-dimensional configuration spaces and we compute trajectories that satisfy the dynamics constraints using a two-stage learning method. First, we train a multitask controller parameterized using dynamic movement primitives (DMP), which encodes various locomotion or movement skills. Next, we train a neural-network controller to select the DMP task to navigate the robot through environments while avoiding obstacles. By combining the finite element method (FEM), model reduction, and contact invariant optimization (CIO), the DMP controller's parameters can be optimized efficiently using a gradient-based method, while the neural-network's parameters are optimized using Deep Q-Learning (DQL). This two-stage learning algorithm also allows us to reuse the trained DMP controller for different navigation tasks, such as moving through different environmental types and to different goal positions. Our results show that the learned motion planner can navigate swimming and walking deformable robots with thousands of DOFs at realtime.


Title: Sensor-Based Reactive Symbolic Planning in Partially Known Environments
Abstract: This paper considers the problem of completing assemblies of passive objects in nonconvex environments, cluttered with convex obstacles of unknown position, shape and size that satisfy a specific separation assumption. A differential drive robot equipped with a gripper and a LIDAR sensor, capable of perceiving its environment only locally, is used to position the passive objects in a desired configuration. The method combines the virtues of a deliberative planner generating high-level, symbolic commands, with the formal guarantees of convergence and obstacle avoidance of a reactive planner that requires little onboard computation and is used online. The validity of the proposed method is verified both with formal proofs and numerical simulations.


Title: Navigating Congested Environments with Risk Level Sets
Abstract: In this paper, we address the problem of navigating in a cluttered environment by introducing a congestion cost that maps the density and motion of objects to an occupancy risk. We propose that an agent can choose a “risk level set” from this cost function and construct a planning space from this set. In choosing different levels of risk, the agent adjusts its interactions with the other agents. From the assumption that agents are self-preserving, we show that any agent planning within their risk level set will avoid collisions with other agents. We then present an application of planning with risk level sets in the framework of an autonomous vehicle driving along a highway. Using the risk level sets, the agent can determine safe zones when planning a sequence of lane changes. Through simulations in Matlab, we demonstrate how the choice of risk threshold manifests as aggressive or conservative behavior.


Title: Topological Multi-Robot Belief Space Planning in Unknown Environments
Abstract: In this paper we introduce a novel concept, topological belief space planning (BSP), that uses topological properties of the underlying factor graph representation of future posterior beliefs to direct the search for an optimal solution. This concept deviates from state-of-the-art BSP approaches and is motivated by recent results which indicated, in the context of graph pruning, that topological properties of factor graphs dominantly determine the estimation accuracy. Topological space is also often less dimensional than the embedded state space. In particular, we show how this novel concept can be used in multi-robot belief space planning in high-dimensional state spaces to overcome drawbacks of state-of-the-art approaches: computational intractability of an exhaustive objective evaluation for all candidate path combinations from different robots and dependence on the initial guess in the announced path approach, which can lead to a local minimum of the objective function. We demonstrate our approach in a synthetic simulation.


Title: Straight-Leg Walking Through Underconstrained Whole-Body Control
Abstract: We present an approach for achieving a natural, efficient gait on bipedal robots using straightened legs and toe-off. Our algorithm avoids complex height planning by allowing a whole-body controller to determine the straightest possible leg configuration at run-time. The controller solutions are biased towards a straight leg configuration by projecting leg joint angle objectives into the null-space of the other quadratic program motion objectives. To allow the legs to remain straight throughout the gait, toe-off was utilized to increase the kinematic reachability of the legs. The toe-off motion is achieved through underconstraining the foot position, allowing it to emerge naturally. We applied this approach of under-specifying the motion objectives to the Atlas humanoid, allowing it to walk over a variety of terrain. We present both experimental and simulation results and discuss performance limitations and potential improvements.


Title: Robust Rough-Terrain Locomotion with a Quadrupedal Robot
Abstract: Robots working in natural, urban, and industrial settings need to be able to navigate challenging environments. In this paper, we present a motion planner for the perceptive rough-terrain locomotion with quadrupedal robots. The planner finds safe footholds along with collision-free swing-leg motions by leveraging an acquired terrain map. To this end, we present a novel pose optimization approach that enables the robot to climb over significant obstacles. We experimentally validate our approach with the quadrupedal robot ANYmal by autonomously traversing obstacles such steps, inclines, and stairs. The locomotion planner re-plans the motion at every step to cope with disturbances and dynamic environments. The robot has no prior knowledge of the scene, and all mapping, state estimation, control, and planning is performed in real-time onboard the robot.


Title: Learning Human-Aware Path Planning with Fully Convolutional Networks
Abstract: This work presents an approach to learn path planning for robot social navigation by demonstration. We make use of Fully Convolutional Neural Networks (FCNs) to learn from expert's path demonstrations a map that marks a feasible path to the goal as a classification problem. The use of FCNs allows us to overcome the problem of manually designing/identifying the cost-map and relevant features for the task of robot navigation. The method makes use of optimal Rapidly-exploring Random Tree planner (RRT*) to overcome eventual errors in the path prediction; the FCNs prediction is used as cost-map and also to partially bias the sampling of the configuration space, leading the planner to behave similarly to the learned expert behavior. The approach is evaluated in experiments with real trajectories and compared with Inverse Reinforcement Learning algorithms that use RRT* as underlying planner.


Title: Pedestrian Prediction by Planning Using Deep Neural Networks
Abstract: Accurate traffic participant prediction is the prerequisite for collision avoidance of autonomous vehicles. In this work, we propose to predict pedestrians using goal-directed planning. For this, we infer a mixture density function for possible destinations. We use these destinations as the goal states of a planning stage that performs motion prediction based on common behavior patterns. The patterns are learned by a fully convolutional network operating on maps of the environment. We show that this entire system can be modeled as one monolithic neural network and trained via inverse reinforcement learning. Experimental validation on real world data shows the system's ability to predict both, destinations and trajectories accurately.


Title: Surface Edge Explorer (see): Planning Next Best Views Directly from 3D Observations
Abstract: Surveying 3D scenes is a common task in robotics. Systems can do so autonomously by iteratively obtaining measurements. This process of planning observations to improve the model of a scene is called Next Best View (NBV) planning. NBV planning approaches often use either volumetric (e.g., voxel grids) or surface (e.g., triangulated meshes) representations. Volumetric approaches generalise well between scenes as they do not depend on surface geometry but do not scale to high-resolution models of large scenes. Surface representations can obtain high-resolution models at any scale but often require tuning of unintuitive parameters or multiple survey stages. This paper presents a scene-model-free NBV planning approach with a density representation. The Surface Edge Explorer (SEE) uses the density of current measurements to detect and explore observed surface boundaries. This approach is shown experimentally to provide better surface coverage in lower computation time than the evaluated state-of-the-art volumetric approaches while moving equivalent distances.


Title: Configuration of Perception Systems via Planning Over Factor Graphs
Abstract: Sensor guided, automated systems require the composition of various sensors and data processing algorithms to obtain relevant information for performing their task. Many applications have additional requirements such as a certain accuracy, which has to be achieved despite sensor noise and calibration errors. In this paper we model the configuration of perception systems as a planning problem over probabilistic graphical models. We work on a subset of the full configuration space of perceptions systems, specifically the used sensors, data processing algorithms and view poses. Based on a semantic description of the goal, available sensors and data processing algorithms, our system plans perception steps and sensor data fusion autonomously. The planner operates by constructing a factor graph until the accuracy requirements of tasks are fulfilled or unobtainable with the available action set. We validate our approach in an industrial assembly scenario.


Title: Gaussian Process Adaptive Sampling Using the Cross-Entropy Method for Environmental Sensing and Monitoring
Abstract: In this paper, we focus on adaptive sampling on a Gaussian Processes (GP) using the receding-horizon Cross-Entropy (CE) trajectory optimization. Specifically, we employ the GP upper confidence bound (GP-UCB) as the optimization criteria to adaptively plan sampling paths that balance the exploitation-exploration trade-off. Path planning at the initial stage focuses on exploring and learning a model of the environment, and later, on exploiting the learned model to focus sampling around regions that exhibit extreme sensory measurements and much higher spatial variability, denoted as the Region of Interest (ROI). The integration of the CE trajectory optimization allows the sampling density to be dynamically adjusted based on the latest sensory measurements, thus providing an efficient sampling strategy for sensing and localizing the ROI. We demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed method in exploring simulated scalar fields with single or multiple ROIs. Field experiments with an Unmanned Surface Vehicle (USV) in a coastal bathymetry mapping mission validate the approach's capability in quickly exploring and mapping the given area, and then focusing and increasing the sampling density around the deepest region, as a surrogate for e.g. the extremal concentration of a pollutant in the environment.


Title: Applying Asynchronous Deep Classification Networks and Gaming Reinforcement Learning-Based Motion Planners to Mobile Robots
Abstract: In this paper, we propose a new methodology to embed deep learning-based algorithms in both visual recognition and motion planning for general mobile robotic platforms. A framework for an asynchronous deep classification network is introduced to integrate heavy deep classification networks into a mobile robot with no loss of system bandwidth. Moreover, a gaming reinforcement learning-based motion planner, a novel and convenient embodiment of reinforcement learning, is introduced for simple implementation and high applicability. The proposed approaches are implemented and evaluated on a developed robot, TT2-bot. The evaluation was based on a mission devised for a qualitative evaluation of the general purposes and performances of a mobile robotic platform. The robot was required to recognize targets with a deep classifier and plan the path effectively using a deep motion planner. As a result, the robot verified that the proposed approaches successfully integrate deep learning technologies on the stand-alone mobile robot. The embedded neural networks for recognition and path planning were critical components for the robot.


Title: Learning with Training Wheels: Speeding up Training with a Simple Controller for Deep Reinforcement Learning
Abstract: Deep Reinforcement Learning (DRL) has been applied successfully to many robotic applications. However, the large number of trials needed for training is a key issue. Most of existing techniques developed to improve training efficiency (e.g. imitation) target on general tasks rather than being tailored for robot applications, which have their specific context to benefit from. We propose a novel framework, Assisted Reinforcement Learning, where a classical controller (e.g. a PID controller) is used as an alternative, switchable policy to speed up training of DRL for local planning and navigation problems. The core idea is that the simple control law allows the robot to rapidly learn sensible primitives, like driving in a straight line, instead of random exploration. As the actor network becomes more advanced, it can then take over to perform more complex actions, like obstacle avoidance. Eventually, the simple controller can be discarded entirely. We show that not only does this technique train faster, it also is less sensitive to the structure of the DRL network and consistently outperforms a standard Deep Deterministic Policy Gradient network. We demonstrate the results in both simulation and real-world experiments.


Title: Coordinated Dense Aerial Traffic with Self-Driving Drones
Abstract: In this paper we present a general, decentralized air traffic control solution using autonomous drones. We challenge some of the most difficult dense traffic situations, namely, crosswalk and package-delivery scenarios, where intelligent collective collision avoidance and motion planning is essential for a jam-free optimal traffic flow. We build up a force-based distributed multi-robot control model using a tunable selection of interaction terms: anisotropic repulsion, behaviour-driven velocity alignment, self-organized queueing and conflict-avoiding self-driving. We optimize the model with evolution in a realistic simulation framework and demonstrate its applicability with 30 autonomous drones in a coordinated outdoor flight within a densely packed virtual arena.


Title: Near-Optimal Adversarial Policy Switching for Decentralized Asynchronous Multi-Agent Systems
Abstract: A key challenge in multi-robot and multi-agent systems is generating solutions that are robust to other self-interested or even adversarial parties who actively try to prevent the agents from achieving their goals. The practicality of existing works addressing this challenge is limited to only small-scale synchronous decision-making scenarios or a single agent planning its best response against a single adversary with fixed, procedurally characterized strategies. In contrast this paper considers a more realistic class of problems where a team of asynchronous agents with limited observation and communication capabilities need to compete against multiple strategic adversaries with changing strategies. This problem necessitates agents that can coordinate to detect changes in adversary strategies and plan the best response accordingly. Our approach first optimizes a set of stratagems that represent these best responses. These optimized stratagems are then integrated into a unified policy that can detect and respond when the adversaries change their strategies. The near-optimality of the proposed framework is established theoretically as well as demonstrated empirically in simulation and hardware.


Title: Human-in-the-Loop Mixed-Initiative Control Under Temporal Tasks
Abstract: This paper considers the motion control and task planning problem of mobile robots under complex high-level tasks and human initiatives. The assigned task is specified as Linear Temporal Logic (LTL) formulas that consist of hard and soft constraints. The human initiative influences the robot autonomy in two explicit ways: with additive terms in the continuous controller and with contingent task assignments. We propose an online coordination scheme that encapsulates (i) a mixed-initiative continuous controller that ensures all-time safety despite of possible human errors, (ii) a plan adaptation scheme that accommodates new features discovered in the workspace and short-term tasks assigned by the operator during run time, and (iii) an iterative inverse reinforcement learning (IRL) algorithm that allows the robot to asymptotically learn the human preference on the parameters during the plan synthesis. The results are demonstrated by both realistic human-in-the-loop simulations and experiments.


Title: Optimized Environment Exploration for Autonomous Underwater Vehicles
Abstract: Achieving full autonomous robotic environment exploration in the underwater domain is very challenging, mainly due to noisy acoustic sensors, high localization error, control disturbances of the water and lack of accurate underwater maps. In this work we present a robotic exploration algorithm for underwater vehicles that does not rely on prior information about the environment. Our method has been greatly influenced by many robotic exploration, view planning and path planning algorithms. The proposed method constitutes a significant improvement over our previous work [1]: Firstly, we refine our exploration approach to improve robustness; Secondly, we propose an alternative map representation based on the quadtree data structure that allows different relevant queries to be performed efficiently, reducing the computational cost of the viewpoint generation process; Thirdly, we present an algorithm that is capable of generating consistent maps even when noisy sonar data is used. The aforementioned contributions have increased the reliability of the algorithm, allowing new real experiments performed in artificial structures but also in more challenging natural environments, from which we provide a 3D reconstruction to show that with this algorithm full optical coverage is obtained.


Title: Pilot Surveys for Adaptive Informative Sampling
Abstract: Adaptive sampling has been shown to be an effective method for modeling environmental fields, such as algae concentrations in the ocean. In adaptive sampling, a robot adapts its sampling trajectory based on data that it is collecting. This data is often aggregated into models, using techniques such as Gaussian Process (G P) regression. The (hyper-)parameters for these models need to be manually set or, ideally, estimated from data. For GP regression, hyperparameters are typically estimated using prior data. This paper addresses the case where initial hyperparameters need to be estimated, but no prior data is available. Without prior data or accurately pre-defined hyperparameters, adaptive sampling techniques may fail, because there is no good model to base path planning decisions on. One method of gathering data is to perform a pilot survey. This survey needs to select informative samples for initiating the model, but without having a model to determine where best to sample. In this work, we evaluate four pilot surveys, which use a softmax function on the distance between waypoints and previously sampled data for waypoint selection. Simulation results show that pilot surveys that maximize waypoint spread over randomization lead to more stable estimation of GP hyperparameters, and create accurate models more quickly.


Title: Q-CP: Learning Action Values for Cooperative Planning
Abstract: Research on multi-robot systems has demonstrated promising results in manifold applications and domains. Still, efficiently learning an effective robot behaviors is very difficult, due to unstructured scenarios, high uncertainties, and large state dimensionality (e.g, hyper-redundant and groups of robot). To alleviate this problem, we present Q-CP a cooperative model-based reinforcement learning algorithm, which exploits action values to both (1) guide the exploration of the state space and (2) generate effective policies. Specifically, we exploit Q-learning to attack the curse-of-dimensionality in the iterations of a Monte-Carlo Tree Search. We implement and evaluate Q-CP on different stochastic cooperative (general-sum) games: (1) a simple cooperative navigation problem among 3 robots, (2) a cooperation scenario between a pair of KUKA YouBots performing hand-overs, and (3) a coordination task between two mobile robots entering a door. The obtained results show the effectiveness of Q- CP in the chosen applications, where action values drive the exploration and reduce the computational demand of the planning process while achieving good performance.


Title: Sparse Gaussian Processes on Matrix Lie Groups: A Unified Framework for Optimizing Continuous-Time Trajectories
Abstract: Continuous-time trajectories are useful for reasoning about robot motion in a wide range of tasks. Sparse Gaussian processes (GPs) can be used as a non-parametric representation for trajectory distributions that enables fast trajectory optimization by sparse GP regression. However, most previous approaches that utilize sparse GPs for trajectory optimization are limited by the fact that the robot state is represented in vector space. In this paper, we first extend previous works to consider the state on general matrix Lie groups by applying a constant-velocity prior and defining locally linear GPs. Next, we discuss how sparse GPs on Lie groups provide a unified continuous-time framework for trajectory optimization for solving a number of robotics problems including state estimation and motion planning. Finally, we demonstrate and evaluate our approach on several different estimation and motion planning tasks with both synthetic and real-world experiments.


Title: Radiation Source Localization in GPS-Denied Environments Using Aerial Robots
Abstract: This paper details the system and methods developed to enable autonomous nuclear radiation source localization and mapping using aerial robots in GPS-denied environments. A Thallium-doped Cesium Iodide (CsI(Tl)) scintillator and a Silicon Photomultiplier are combined with custom-built electronics for counting and spectroscopy, and the provided radiation measurements are pose-annotated using visual-inertial localization enabling autonomous operation in GPS-denied environments. Provided this capability, a strategy for radioactive source localization, as well as active source search path planning was developed. The proposed method is motivated and accounts for the limited endurance of the vehicle, which entails a very small amount of dwell points, and the fact that GPS-denied localization implies varying uncertainty of the robot's position estimate. The complete system is evaluated in multiple experimental studies using a small aerial robot and a Cesium-137 radiation source. As shown, accurate radioactive source localization is achieved, enabling efficient radiation mapping of indoor GPS-denied environments.


Title: Distributed Real Time Control of Multiple UAVs in Adversarial Environment: Algorithm and Flight Testing Results
Abstract: We present a complete design and implementation of a system that consists of multiple quadrotors playing capture the flag game. Our main contributions in this work include a custom built quadrotor platform, an efficient implementation of a distributed trajectory planning algorithm, and a WiFi based communication infrastructure. In our design, we equip the quadrotors with autopilot modules for low level control. Moreover, we install low power computing modules for implementing the distributed trajectory planning algorithm online. Furthermore, we develop a communication infrastructure to enable coordination among the quadrotors, which is required for computing a suboptimal control action in real time. The interactions among all the hardware and software components are managed at a higher level by Robot Operating System (ROS). To test the performance of the system, we select a motivating setup of capture the flag game, which is an adversarial game played between two teams of agents called attack and defense. The system is initially simulated in the Gazebo robot simulator with software in the loop. Finally, the complete system is tested and the flight testing results are presented.


Title: BFM: a Scalable and Resource-Aware Method for Adaptive Mission Planning of UAVs
Abstract: UAVs must continuously adapt their mission to face unexpected internal or external hazards. This paper proposes a new BFM model (Bayesian Networks built from FMEA tables for MDP). This scalable model offers a modular and comprehensive method to incorporate different types of diagnosis modules based on BN (Bayesian Networks) and FMEA table (Failure Mode and Effects Analysis) to mission specifications expressed as a MDP (Markov Decision Processes). The BFM model implements the complete decision making process that covers both the application configurations at the embedded system level and the mission planning at the UAV level. These decisions are based on the QoS (Quality of Service) of applications, the resource use and the system and sensors health. We demonstrate on a case study for a target tracking mission that the BFM model can interface hazards and applications specifications and can improve the success and quality of the mission. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first proposal of a systematic method that integrates diagnosis modules to MDP model in order to take care of the implementation of embedded applications during a mission.


Title: Perception-Informed Autonomous Environment Augmentation with Modular Robots
Abstract: We present a system enabling a modular robot to autonomously build structures in order to accomplish high-level tasks. Building structures allows the robot to surmount large obstacles, expanding the set of tasks it can perform. This addresses a common weakness of modular robot systems, which often struggle to traverse large obstacles. This paper presents the hardware, perception, and planning tools that comprise our system. An environment characterization algorithm identifies features in the environment that can be augmented to create a path between two disconnected regions of the environment. Specially-designed building blocks enable the robot to create structures that can augment the environment to make obstacles traversable. A high-level planner reasons about the task, robot locomotion capabilities, and environment to decide if and where to augment the environment in order to perform the desired task. We validate our system in hardware experiments.


Title: Grasp Planning for Load Sharing in Collaborative Manipulation
Abstract: In near future, robots are envisioned to work alongside humans in unstructured professional and domestic environments. In such setups, collaborative manipulation is a fundamental skill that allows manipulation of heavy loads by load sharing between agents. Grasp planning plays a pivotal role for load sharing but it has not received attention in the literature. This work proposes a grasp analysis approach for collaborative manipulation that allows load sharing by minimizing exerted grasp wrenches in a task specific way. The manipulation task is defined as expected external wrenches acting on the target object. The analysis approach is demonstrated in a two-agent decentralized set-up with unknown objects. After the first agent has grasped the target, the second agent observes the first agent's grasp location and plans its own grasp according to optimal load sharing. The method was verified in a human robot collaborative lifting task. Experiments with multiple objects show that the proposed method results in optimal load sharing despite limited information and partial observability.


Title: Deep Auxiliary Learning for Visual Localization and Odometry
Abstract: Localization is an indispensable component of a robot's autonomy stack that enables it to determine where it is in the environment, essentially making it a precursor for any action execution or planning. Although convolutional neural networks have shown promising results for visual localization, they are still grossly outperformed by state-of-the-art local feature-based techniques. In this work, we propose VLocNet, a new convolutional neural network architecture for 6-DoF global pose regression and odometry estimation from consecutive monocular images. Our multitask model incorporates hard parameter sharing, thus being compact and enabling real-time inference, in addition to being end-to-end trainable. We propose a novel loss function that utilizes auxiliary learning to leverage relative pose information during training, thereby constraining the search space to obtain consistent pose estimates. We evaluate our proposed VLocNet on indoor as well as outdoor datasets and show that even our single task model exceeds the performance of state-of-the-art deep architectures for global localization, while achieving competitive performance for visual odometry estimation. Furthermore, we present extensive experimental evaluations utilizing our proposed Geometric Consistency Loss that show the effectiveness of multitask learning and demonstrate that our model is the first deep learning technique to be on par with, and in some cases outperforms state-of-the-art SIFT-based approaches.


Title: Reconfiguration Analysis and Motion Planning of a Novel Reconfigurable Mobile Manipulator Torso
Abstract: A novel 2-RER reconfigurable parallel mechanism (ReConBot) considered as the flexible torso of the mobile manipulator is proposed. This paper deals with the analysis of reconfiguration, kinematics, and motion planning. The ReConBot is composed of straight bar-shape base and moving platforms and two metamorphic kinematic chains (MKC) consisted of a revolute (R) joint, a planar (E) joint, and an R joint in sequence. Firstly, mobility and reconfiguration analysis discuss the conditions and mutual mode transition rules of 12 possible configuration states. And then, the kinematics model covers all states with Cartesian coordinate and axis/angle representations. What's more, the motion planning following the rules of the mode transition is explained and illustrated together with a case study. Furthermore, the method of handling the transition at singularity position is discussed. Finally, the robotic system and its experiments verify the correctness of the theoretical analysis and the validation of reconfiguration rules.


Title: Aerial Grasping Based on Shape Adaptive Transformation by HALO: Horizontal Plane Transformable Aerial Robot with Closed-Loop Multilinks Structure
Abstract: In this paper, we present the achievement of aerial grasping by shape adaptive transformation to the object shape, using a novel transformable aerial robot called HALO: Horizontal Plane Transformable Aerial Robot with Closed-loop Multilinks Structure. Aerial manipulation is an active research area and using multiple aerial robots is an effective solution for the large size object. However the cooperation is considered that there are some difficulties such as the synchronized flight control and collision with each other. Then, we focus on the transformable aerial robot with two-dimensional multilinks proposed in our previous works, which can transform to the suitable form for the target object and grasp it. However the transformable aerial robot with the serial-link structure could not achieve stable flight in terms of horizontal position and yaw control due to the low rigidity and large inertia in the case of more than 4 links. Thus, first we construct a novel type of multilinks with closed-loop structure to avoid the deformation and a new link module with a tilted propeller for fully-actuated control. Second, we describe transformation method with closed-loop multilinks. Third, we present the optimization planning method for the multilinks form to be adaptive to the two-dimensional shape of the target object. Finally, we present experimental results to demonstrate the feasibility of closed-loop aerial transformation and aerial grasping for the large size object.


Title: ACT: An Autonomous Drone Cinematography System for Action Scenes
Abstract: Drones are enabling new forms of cinematography. Aerial filming via drones in action scenes is difficult because it requires users to understand the dynamic scenarios and operate the drone and camera simultaneously. Existing systems allow the user to manually specify the shots and guide the drone to capture footage, while none of them employ aesthetic objectives to automate aerial filming in action scenes. Meanwhile, these drone cinematography systems depend on the external motion capture systems to perceive the human action, which is limited to the indoor environment. In this paper, we propose an Autonomous CinemaTography system “ACT” on the drone platform to address the above the challenges. To our knowledge, this is the first drone camera system which can autonomously capture cinematic shots of action scenes based on limb movements in both indoor and outdoor environments. Our system includes the following novelties. First, we propose an efficient method to extract 3D skeleton points via a stereo camera. Second, we design a real-time dynamical camera planning strategy that fulfills the aesthetic objectives for filming and respects the physical limits of a drone. At the system level, we integrate cameras and GPUs into the limited space of a drone and demonstrate the feasibility of running the entire cinematography system onboard in real-time. Experimental results in both simulation and real-world scenarios demonstrate that our cinematography system “ACT” can capture more expressive video footage of human action than that of a state-of-the-art drone camera system.


Title: Approximate Branch and Bound for Fast, Risk-Bound Stochastic Path Planning
Abstract: Path planning under uncertainty is a difficult and often intractable problem. Autonomous agents must model and reason about complex stochastic processes to quickly derive high quality plans. Most approaches separate the model of uncertainty from the planning; a model is selected and then a controller derived. This work proposes an approach for fast path planning under uncertainty that scales the model of uncertainty such that good policies receive the most effort. To do this, we use an innovative form of the problem's chance constraint to formulate a convex, stochastic path planning problem from the non-convex problem. Next, a bound on the path's expected cost is developed that allows a trade-off between speed of computation and accuracy. The bound is trivially parallelized on a GPU. Finally, a modified branch and bound algorithm is introduced that scales computational effort for more promising solutions. The method is benchmarked against existing approaches including those using Boole's inequality, a MILP approach, and a parallelized sampling-based approach. It outperforms other approaches based on speed and the ability to meet the chance constraint while not being overly conservative.


Title: Rapidly-Exploring Random Vines (RRV) for Motion Planning in Configuration Spaces with Narrow Passages
Abstract: Classical RRT algorithm is blind to efficiently explore configuration space for expanding the tree through a narrow passage when solving a motion planning (MP) problem. Although there have been several attempts to deal with narrow passages which are based on a wide spectrum of assumptions and configuration setups, we solve this problem in rather general way. We use dominant eigenvectors of the configuration sets formed by properly sampling the space around the nearest node, to efficiently expand the tree around the obstacles and through narrow passages. Unlike classical RRT, our algorithm is aware of having the tree nodes in front of a narrow passage and in a narrow passage, which enables a proper tree expansion in a vine-like manner. A thorough comparison with RRT, RRT-connect, and DDRRT algorithm is provided by solving three different difficult MP problems. The results suggest a significant superiority the proposed Rapidly-exploring Random Vines (RRV) algorithm might have in configuration spaces with narrow passages.


Title: Generalizing Informed Sampling for Asymptotically-Optimal Sampling-Based Kinodynamic Planning via Markov Chain Monte Carlo
Abstract: Asymptotically-optimal motion planners such as RRT* have been shown to incrementally approximate the shortest path between start and goal states. Once an initial solution is found, their performance can be dramatically improved by restricting subsequent samples to regions of the state space that can potentially improve the current solution. When the motion-planning problem lies in a Euclidean space, this region Xinf, called the informed set, can be sampled directly. However, when planning with differential constraints in non-Euclidean state spaces, no analytic solutions exists to sampling Xinf directly. State-of-the-art approaches to sampling Xinf in such domains such as Hierarchical Rejection Sampling (HRS) may still be slow in high -dimensional state space. This may cause the planning algorithm to spend most of its time trying to produces samples in Xinf rather than explore it. In this paper, we suggest an alternative approach to produce samples in the informed set Xinf for a wide range of settings. Our main insight is to recast this problem as one of sampling uniformly within the sub-level-set of an implicit non-convex function. This recasting enables us to apply Monte Carlo sampling methods, used very effectively in the Machine Learning and Optimization communities, to solve our problem. We show for a wide range of scenarios that using our sampler can accelerate the convergence rate to high-quality solutions in high-dimensional problems.


Title: Dancing PRM*: Simultaneous Planning of Sampling and Optimization with Configuration Free Space Approximation
Abstract: A recent trend in optimal motion planning has broadened the research area toward the hybridization of sampling, optimization and grid-based approaches. We can expect that synergy from such integrations leads to overall performance improvement, but seamless integration and generalization is still an open problem. In this paper, we suggest a hybrid motion planning algorithm utilizing a sampling-based and optimization-based planner while simultaneously approximating a configuration free space. Unlike conventional optimization-based approaches, the proposed algorithm does not depend on a priori information or resolution-complete factors, e.g., a distance field. Ours instead learns spatial information on the fly by exploiting empirical information during the execution, and decentralizes the information over the constructed graph for efficient access. With the help of the learned information, our optimization-based local planner exploits the local area to identify the connectivity of configuration free space without depending on the precomputed domain knowledge. To show the novelty of proposed algorithm, we evaluate it against other asymptotic optimal planners in both synthetic and complex benchmarks with varying degrees of freedom. We also discuss the performance improvement, properties and limitations we have observed.


Title: Randomized Kinodynamic Planning for Constrained Systems
Abstract: Kinodynamic RRT planners are considered to be general tools for effectively finding feasible trajectories for high-dimensional dynamical systems. However, they struggle when holonomic constraints are present in the system, such as those arising in parallel manipulators, in robots that cooperate to fulfill a given task, or in situations involving contacts with the environment. In such cases, the state space becomes an implicitly-defined manifold, which makes the diffusion heuristic inefficient and leads to inaccurate dynamical simulations. To address these issues, this paper presents an extension of the kinodynamic RRT planner that constructs an atlas of the state-space manifold incrementally, and uses this atlas both to generate random states and to dynamically steer the system towards such states. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first randomized kinodynamic planner that explicitly takes holonomic constraints into account. We validate the approach in significantly-complex systems.


Title: Learning Sampling Distributions for Robot Motion Planning
Abstract: A defining feature of sampling-based motion planning is the reliance on an implicit representation of the state space, which is enabled by a set of probing samples. Traditionally, these samples are drawn either probabilistically or deterministically to uniformly cover the state space. Yet, the motion of many robotic systems is often restricted to “small” regions of the state space, due to e.g. differential constraints or collision-avoidance constraints. To accelerate the planning process, it is thus desirable to devise non-uniform sampling strategies that favor sampling in those regions where an optimal solution might lie. This paper proposes a methodology for nonuniform sampling, whereby a sampling distribution is learned from demonstrations, and then used to bias sampling. The sampling distribution is computed through a conditional variational autoencoder, allowing sample generation from the latent space conditioned on the specific planning problem. This methodology is general, can be used in combination with any sampling-based planner, and can effectively exploit the underlying structure of a planning problem while maintaining the theoretical guarantees of sampling-based approaches. Specifically, on several planning problems, the proposed methodology is shown to effectively learn representations for the relevant regions of the state space, resulting in an order of magnitude improvement in terms of success rate and convergence to the optimal cost.


Title: Feature-constrained Active Visual SLAM for Mobile Robot Navigation
Abstract: This paper focuses on tracking failure avoidance during vision-based navigation to a desired goal in unknown environments. While using feature-based Visual Simultaneous Localization and Mapping (VSLAM), continuous identification and association of map points are required during motion. Thus, we discuss a motion planning framework that takes into account sensory constraints for a reliable navigation. We use information available in the SLAM and propose a data-driven approach to predict the number of map points associated in a given pose. Then, a distance-optimal path planner utilizes the model to constrain paths such that the number of associated map points in each pose is above a threshold. We also include an online mapping of the environment for collision avoidance. Overall, we propose an iterative motion planning framework that enables real-time replanning after the acquisition of more information. Experiments in two environments demonstrate the performance of the proposed framework.


Title: Counterexamples for Robotic Planning Explained in Structured Language
Abstract: Automated techniques such as model checking have been used to verify models of robotic mission plans based on Markov decision processes (MDPs) and generate counterexamples that may help diagnose requirement violations. However, such artifacts may be too complex for humans to understand, because existing representations of counterexamples typically include a large number of paths or a complex automaton. To help improve the interpretability of counterexamples, we define a notion of explainable counterexample, which includes a set of structured natural language sentences to describe the robotic behavior that lead to a requirement violation in an MDP model of robotic mission plan. We propose an approach based on mixed-integer linear programming for generating explainable counterexamples that are minimal, sound and complete. We demonstrate the usefulness of the proposed approach via a case study of warehouse robots planning.


Title: Multi-Vehicle Motion Planning for Social Optimal Mobility-on-Demand
Abstract: In this paper we consider a fleet of self-driving cars operating in a road network governed by rules of the road, such as the Vienna Convention on Road Traffic, providing rides to customers to serve their demands with desired deadlines. We focus on the associated motion planning problem that trades-off the demands' delays and level of violation of the rules of the road to achieve social optimum among the vehicles. Due to operating in the same environment, the interaction between the cars must be taken into account, and can induce further delays. We propose an integrated route and motion planning approach that achieves scalability with respect to the number of cars by resolving potential collision situations locally within so-called bubble spaces enclosing the conflict. The algorithms leverage the road geometries, and perform joint planning only for lead vehicles in the conflict and use queue scheduling for the remaining cars. Furthermore, a framework for storing previously resolved conflict situations is proposed, which can be use for quick querying of joint motion plans. We show the mobility-on-demand setup and effectiveness of the proposed approach in simulated case studies involving up to 10 self-driving vehicles.


Title: Auctioning over Probabilistic Options for Temporal Logic-Based Multi-Robot Cooperation Under Uncertainty
Abstract: Coordinating a team of robots to fulfill a common task is still a demanding problem. This is even more the case when considering uncertainty in the environment, as well as temporal dependencies within the task specification. A multi-robot cooperation from a single goal specification requires mechanisms for decomposing the goal as well as an efficient planning for the team. However, planning action sequences offline is insufficient in real world applications. Rather, due to uncertainties, the robots also need to closely coordinate during execution and adjust their policies when additional observations are made. The framework presented in this paper enables the robot team to cooperatively fulfill tasks given as temporal logic specifications while explicitly considering uncertainty and incorporating observations during execution. We present the effectiveness of our ROS implementation of this approach in a case study scenario.


Title: Underactuated Hand Design Using Mechanically Realizable Manifolds
Abstract: Hand synergies, or joint coordination patterns, have become an effective tool for achieving versatile robotic grasping with simple hands or planning algorithms. Here we propose a method to determine the hand synergies such that they can be physically implemented in an underactuated fashion. Given a kinematic hand model and a set of desired grasps, our algorithm optimizes a Mechanically Realizable Manifold designed to be achievable by a physical underactuation mechanism, enabling the resulting hand to achieve the desired grasps with few actuators. Furthermore, in contrast to existing methods for determining synergies which are only concerned with hand posture, our method explicitly optimizes the stability of the target grasps. We implement this method in the design of a three-finger single-actuator hand as an example, and evaluate its effectiveness numerically and experimentally.


Title: Robotic Handling of Liquids with Spilling Avoidance: A Constraint-Based Control Approach
Abstract: Handling liquids with spilling avoidance is a topic of interest for a broad range of fields, both in industry and in service robotic applications. In this paper we present a new control architecture for motion planning of industrial robots, able to tackle the problem of liquid transfer with sloshing control. We do not focus on a complete sloshing suppression, but we show how to enforce an anti spilling constraint. This less conservative approach allows to impose higher accelerations, reducing motion time. A constraint-based approach, amenable to an Online implementation, has been developed. The proposed controller generates trajectories in real time, in order to follow a reference path, while being compliant to the spilling avoidance constraint. The approach has been validated on a 6 degree of freedom industrial ABB robot.


Title: A Robust Robot Design for Item Picking
Abstract: In order to build a stable and reliable system for the Amazon Robotics Challenge we went through a detailed study of the performance and system requirements based on the rules and our past experience of the challenge. The challenge was to build a robot that integrates grasping, vision, motion planning, among others, to be able to pick items from a shelf to specific order boxes. This paper presents the development process including component selection, module designs, and deployment. The resulting robot system has dual 6 degrees of freedom industrial arms mounted on fixed bases, which in turn are mounted on a calibrated table. The robot works with a custom-designed top-open extendable shelf. The vision system uses multiple stereo cameras mounted on a fixed calibrated frame. Feature-based comparison and machine-learning based matching are used to identify and determine item pose. The gripper system uses suction cup and the grasping strategy is pick from the top. Error recovery strategies were also implemented to ensure robust performance. During the competition, the robot was able to pick all target items with the shortest amount of time.


Title: Semantic Robot Programming for Goal-Directed Manipulation in Cluttered Scenes
Abstract: We present the Semantic Robot Programming (SRP) paradigm as a convergence of robot programming by demonstration and semantic mapping. In SRP, a user can directly program a robot manipulator by demonstrating a snapshot of their intended goal scene in workspace. The robot then parses this goal as a scene graph comprised of object poses and inter-object relations, assuming known object geometries. Task and motion planning is then used to realize the user's goal from an arbitrary initial scene configuration. Even when faced with different initial scene configurations, SRP enables the robot to seamlessly adapt to reach the user's demonstrated goal. For scene perception, we propose the Discriminatively-Informed Generative Estimation of Scenes and Transforms (DIGEST) method to infer the initial and goal states of the world from RGBD images. The efficacy of SRP with DIGEST perception is demonstrated for the task of tray-setting with a Michigan Progress Fetch robot. Scene perception and task execution are evaluated with a public household occlusion dataset and our cluttered scene dataset.


Title: Historical Data is Useful for Navigation Planning: Data Driven Route Generation for Autonomous Ship
Abstract: This work presents a method for automated generation of navigation plan for autonomous or robotic surface vessel. Historical Automatic Identification System (AIS) data is of significant value to this problem. The method joins AIS locations of a same vessel at different time and locations in a region into a route. Next, it automatically computes navigation plans using nearest neighbour based path retrieval relying on two representations, Ship Feature and Navigation Feature. Before starting service, existing AIS records in the form of ship properties and corresponding route are preprocessed and stored in the form of Ship and Navigation Feature. During online retrieval, given input constraints in vector form, nearest neighbour of this query vector in the same space is found and corresponding path of the neighbour is returned as recommended path. Analysis was done in four and two dimensional spaces for Ship and Navigation Feature respectively. Application of the method is demonstrated in two regions of Australian, covering Bass Strait and Great Australian Bight.


Title: Robust Dense Mapping for Large-Scale Dynamic Environments
Abstract: We present a stereo-based dense mapping algorithm for large-scale dynamic urban environments. In contrast to other existing methods, we simultaneously reconstruct the static background, the moving objects, and the potentially moving but currently stationary objects separately, which is desirable for high-level mobile robotic tasks such as path planning in crowded environments. We use both instance-aware semantic segmentation and sparse scene flow to classify objects as either background, moving, or potentially moving, thereby ensuring that the system is able to model objects with the potential to transition from static to dynamic, such as parked cars. Given camera poses estimated from visual odometry, both the background and the (potentially) moving objects are reconstructed separately by fusing the depth maps computed from the stereo input. In addition to visual odometry, sparse scene flow is also used to estimate the 3D motions of the detected moving objects, in order to reconstruct them accurately. A map pruning technique is further developed to improve reconstruction accuracy and reduce memory consumption, leading to increased scalability. We evaluate our system thoroughly on the well-known KITTI dataset. Our system is capable of running on a PC at approximately 2.5Hz, with the primary bottleneck being the instance-aware semantic segmentation, which is a limitation we hope to address in future work. The source code is available from the project Websitea.


Title: Self-triggered Adaptive Planning and Scheduling of UAV Operations
Abstract: Modern unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs) rely on constant periodic sensor measurements to detect and avoid obstacles. However, constant checking and replanning are time and energy consuming and are often not necessary especially in situations in which the UAV can safely fly in uncluttered environments without entering unsafe states. Thus, in this paper, we propose a self-triggered framework that leverages reachability analysis to schedule the next time to check sensor measurements and perform replanning while guaranteeing safety under noise and disturbance effects. Further, we relax sensor checking and motion replanning operations by leveraging a risk-based analysis that determines the likelihood to reach undesired states over a certain time horizon. We also propose an online speed adaptation policy based on the planned trajectory curvature to minimize drift from the desired path due to the system dynamics. Finally, we validate the proposed approach with simulations and experiments for a quadrotor UAV motion planning case study in a cluttered environment.


Title: Intent-Aware Multi-Agent Reinforcement Learning
Abstract: This paper proposes an intent-aware multi-agent planning framework as well as a learning algorithm. Under this framework, an agent plans in the goal space to maximize the expected utility. The planning process takes the belief of other agents' intents into consideration. Instead of formulating the learning problem as a partially observable Markov decision process (POMDP), we propose a simple but effective linear function approximation of the utility function. It is based on the observation that for humans, other people's intents will pose an influence on our utility for a goal. The proposed framework has several major advantages: i) it is computationally feasible and guaranteed to converge. ii) It can easily integrate existing intent prediction and low-level planning algorithms. iii) It does not suffer from sparse feedbacks in the action space. We experiment our algorithm in a real-world problem that is non-episodic, and the number of agents and goals can vary over time. Our algorithm is trained in a scene in which aerial robots and humans interact, and tested in a novel scene with a different environment. Experimental results show that our algorithm achieves the best performance and human-like behaviors emerge during the dynamic process.


Title: Deep Reinforcement Learning Supervised Autonomous Exploration in Office Environments
Abstract: Exploration region selection is an essential decision making process in autonomous robot exploration task. While a majority of greedy methods are proposed to deal with this problem, few efforts are made to investigate the importance of predicting long-term planning. In this paper, we present an algorithm that utilizes deep reinforcement learning (DRL) to learn exploration knowledge over office blueprints, which enables the agent to predict a long-term visiting order for unexplored subregions. On the basis of this algorithm, we propose an exploration architecture that integrates a DRL model, a next-best-view (NBV) selection approach and a structural integrity measurement to further improve the exploration performance. At the end of this paper, we evaluate the proposed architecture against other methods on several new office maps, showing that the agent can efficiently explore uncertain regions with a shorter path and smarter behaviors.


Title: Trajectory Replanning for Quadrotors Using Kinodynamic Search and Elastic Optimization
Abstract: We focus on a replanning scenario for quadrotors where considering time efficiency, non-static initial state and dynamical feasibility is of great significance. We propose a real-time B-spline based kinodynamic (RBK) search algorithm, which transforms a position-only shortest path search (such as A * and Dijkstra) into an efficient kinodynamic search, by exploring the properties of B-spline parameterization. The RBK search is greedy and produces a dynamically feasible time-parameterized trajectory efficiently, which facilitates non-static initial state of the quadrotor. To cope with the limitation of the greedy search and the discretization induced by a grid structure, we adopt an elastic optimization (EO) approach as a post-optimization process, to refine the control point placement provided by the RBK search. The EO approach finds the optimal control point placement inside an expanded elastic tube which represents the free space, by solving a Quadratically Constrained Quadratic Programming (QCQP) problem. We design a receding horizon replanner based on the local control property of B-spline. A systematic comparison of our method against two state-of-the-art methods is provided. We integrate our replanning system with a monocular vision-based quadrotor and validate our performance onboard.


Title: On Bisection Continuous Collision Checking Method: Spherical Joints and Minimum Distance to Obstacles
Abstract: In this paper, we adapt the Continuous Collision Detection (CCD) method proposed in [1] to efficiently handle the case of spherical and two revolute joints, this kind of joints is very common in modern robotic systems. The new formulations provide more tight motion bounds, thus increase the success rate of checking collision-free paths. We also propose an extension to get the minimum distance to obstacles along a path, this information is primordial as it allows sampling-based motion planning techniques to sort collision-free paths according to their minimum clearance. We have integrated our implementation into a sampling-based motion planning technique and validated it through simulation and on the real Baxter research robot. The experiments revealed that the method not only does not miss any collision between the robot and the obstacles, but also the minimum distance extension provides the path with the maximum clearance at no additional computational cost.


Title: Avoidance of High-Speed Obstacles Based on Velocity Obstacles
Abstract: For obstacles moving with high speeds, existing motion planning methods can rarely guarantee collision avoidance. This paper proposes a viable two-period velocity obstacle algorithm where one period predicts potential collisions within a limited time horizon, and the second period foresees collisions beyond that horizon. The second period is activated only when the obstacle's moving speed is larger than the maximum speed of the robot. The applicability of the new algorithm and the related computation issues are discussed. Both computer simulations and laboratory experiments illustrated the effectiveness of the proposed obstacle avoidance algorithm.


Title: NanoMap: Fast, Uncertainty-Aware Proximity Queries with Lazy Search Over Local 3D Data
Abstract: We would like robots to be able to safely navigate at high speed, efficiently use local 3D information, and robustly plan motions that consider pose uncertainty of measurements in a local map structure. This is hard to do with previously existing mapping approaches, like occupancy grids, that are focused on incrementally fusing 3D data into a common world frame. In particular, both their fragile sensitivity to state estimation errors and computational cost can be limiting. We develop an alternative framework, NanoMap, which alleviates the need for global map fusion and enables a motion planner to efficiently query pose-uncertainty-aware local 3D geometric information. The key idea of NanoMap is to store a history of noisy relative pose transforms and search over a corresponding set of depth sensor measurements for the minimum-uncertainty view of a queried point in space. This approach affords a variety of capabilities not offered by traditional mapping techniques: (a) the pose uncertainty associated with 3D data can be incorporated in motion planning, (b) poses can be updated (i.e., from loop closures) with minimal computational effort, and (c) 3D data can be fused lazily for the purpose of planning. We provide an open-source implementation of NanoMap, and analyze its capabilities and computational efficiency in simulation experiments. Finally, we demonstrate in hardware its effectiveness for fast 3D obstacle avoidance onboard a quadrotor flying up to 10 m/s.


Title: Model-Based Probabilistic Pursuit via Inverse Reinforcement Learning
Abstract: We address the integrated prediction, planning, and control problem that enables a single follower robot (the photographer) to quickly re-establish visual contact with a moving target (the subject) that has escaped the follower's field of view. We deal with this scenario, which reactive controllers are typically ill-equipped to handle, by making plausible predictions about the long- and short-term behavior of the target, and planning pursuit paths that will maximize the chance of seeing the target again. At the core of our pursuit method is the use of predictive models of target behavior, which help narrow down the set of possible future locations of the target to a few discrete hypotheses, as well as the use of combinatorial search in physical space to check those hypotheses efficiently. We model target behavior in terms of a learned navigation reward function, using Inverse Reinforcement Learning, based on semantic terrain features of satellite maps. Our pursuit algorithm continuously predicts the latent destination of the target and its position in the future, and relies on efficient graph representation and search methods in order to navigate to locations at which the target is most likely to be seen at an anticipated time. We perform extensive evaluation of our predictive pursuit algorithm over multiple satellite maps, thousands of simulation scenarios, against state-of-the art MDP and POMDP solvers. We show that our method significantly outperforms them by exploiting domain-specific knowledge, while being able to run in real-time.


Title: U sing a UAV for Destructive Surveys of Mosquito Population
Abstract: This paper introduces techniques for mosquito population surveys in the field using electrified screens (bug zappers) mounted to a UAV. Instrumentation on the UAV logs the UAV path and the GPS location, altitude, and time of each mosquito elimination. Hardware experiments with a UAV equipped with an electrified screen provide real-time measurements of (former) mosquito locations and mosquito-free volumes. Planning a trajectory for the UAV that maximizes the number of mosquito kills is related to the Traveling Salesman Problem, the Lawn Mower Problem and, most closely, Milling with Turn Cost. We reduce this problem to considering variants of covering a grid graph with minimum turn cost, corresponding to optimized energy consumption. We describe an exact method based on Integer Programming that is able to compute provably optimal instances with over 1,500 pixels. These solutions are then implemented on the UAV.


