total paper: 190
Title: Automatic Optimized 3D Path Planner for Steerable Catheters with Heuristic Search and Uncertainty Tolerance
Key Words: catheters  drugs  medical robotics  needles  path planning  surgery  RRT-Connect  sample-based algorithms  obstacle occupancy  insertion procedure  catheter modeling  asymptotically-optimal solution  BIT* algorithm  sample-based heuristic search  drug delivery  multisegment steerable probe  programmable bevel-tip needle  EDEN2020  neurosurgeon  minimally invasive neurosurgery  automatic planner  steerable catheters  Neurosurgery  Catheters  Three-dimensional displays  Kinematics  Needles  Planning  Uncertainty 
Abstract: In this paper, an automatic planner for minimally invasive neurosurgery is presented. The solution provides the neurosurgeon with the best path to connect a user-defined entry point with a target in accordance with a specific cost function. The approach guarantees the avoidance of obstacles which can be found along the insertion pathway. The method is tailored to the EDEN2020* programmable bevel-tip needle, a multisegment steerable probe intended to be used to perform drug delivery for the treatment of glioblastomas. A sample-based heuristic search inspired by the BIT* algorithm is used to define the asymptotically-optimal solution in terms of path length, followed by a smoothing phase to meet the required kinematic constraints of the needle. To account for inaccuracies in catheter modeling, which could determine unexpected control errors over the insertion procedure, an uncertainty margin is defined in order to increase the algorithm's safety. The feasibility of the proposed solution was demonstrated by testing the method in simulated neurosurgical scenarios with different degrees of obstacle occupancy and against other sample-based algorithms present in literature: RRT, RRT* and an enhanced version of the RRT-Connect.


Title: String Untying Planning Based on Knot Theory and Proposal of Algorithms to Generate the Motion of a Manipulator
Key Words: manipulators  path planning  deformable object manipulation  string untying planning method  motion generation  optimal string shape operation  knot theory  Shape  Planning  Manipulators  Robot motion  Three-dimensional displays  Task analysis 
Abstract: Recently, the demand to manipulate deformable objects such as a string and cloth by robots is growing. The reason is that it has the possibility of making our lives more convenient in many domains. The manipulation of deformable objects, however, is more difficult than that of rigid objects, because deformable objects have diversity of shape and behavior. Therefore, our research group has been focusing on the string shape operation. This paper describes planning method of string untying operation based on knot theory and algorithms to generate the motion of a manipulator. The novel contribution of our planning method is automatic selection of optimal shape operation based on cost function. At final, the results of string untying experiments are reported.


Title: Efficient Planning for Near-Optimal Compliant Manipulation Leveraging Environmental Contact
Key Words: large-scale systems  manipulators  optimisation  path planning  robot kinematics  path planning  assembly tasks  action uncertainty  optimal manipulation  leverage environmental contact  complex kinematics  action space  contact manifold  problem complexity  near-optimal compliant manipulation  environmental contact  discretization  Aerospace electronics  Uncertainty  Kinematics  Mathematical model  Manifolds  Task analysis  Complexity theory 
Abstract: Path planning classically focuses on avoiding environmental contact. However, some assembly tasks permit contact through compliance, and such contact may allow for more efficient and reliable solutions under action uncertainty. But, optimal manipulation plans that leverage environmental contact are difficult to compute. Environmental contact produces complex kinematics that create difficulties for planning. This complexity is usually addressed by discretization over state and action space, but discretization quickly becomes computationally intractable. To overcome the challenge, we use the insight that only actions on configurations near the contact manifold are likely to involve complex kinematics, while segments of the plan through free space do not. Leveraging this structure can greatly reduce the number of states considered and scales much better with problem complexity. We develop an algorithm based on this idea and show that it performs comparably to full MDP solutions at a fraction of the computational cost.


Title: Constrained Sampling-Based Planning for Grasping and Manipulation
Key Words: manipulator dynamics  motion control  path planning  position control  redundant manipulators  sampling methods  sensors  trees (mathematics)  constrained sampling-based planning  sampling-based motion  transport tasks  redundant robotic manipulator  planning margin  grasp configuration  approach direction  sensor uncertainty  execution errors  soft constraints  computational efficiency  studied approaches  target position  grasp tasks  optimal grasp pose  Rapidly-exploring Random Tree algorithm  RRT algorithm  Planning  Grasping  Task analysis  Manipulators  Jacobian matrices  Robustness  Manifolds 
Abstract: This paper presents a novel constrained, sampling-based motion planning method for grasp and transport tasks with a redundant robotic manipulator. We utilize a planning margin for grasping with constraints that allow the best grasp configuration and approach direction to be determined automatically. For manipulators with many degrees of freedom, our method efficiently chooses the optimal grasp pose when there are many redundant solutions. The method also introduces a parameterized intermediate pose that is optimized to determine the approach direction, increasing robustness under sensor uncertainty and execution errors. Our method also considers transporting the grasped object to the desired target position using a Rapidly-exploring Random Tree (RRT) algorithm that incorporates soft constraints via appropriate cost penalties. We demonstrate the effectiveness and efficiency of our algorithms on a number of simulated and experimental applications. Our experimental results show a marked improvement in computational efficiency in comparison to previously studied approaches.


Title: Geometric In-Hand Regrasp Planning: Alternating Optimization of Finger Gaits and In-Grasp Manipulation
Key Words: dexterous manipulators  gait analysis  manipulator kinematics  mesh generation  mobile robots  optimisation  path planning  finger gaiting  in-grasp manipulation  contact location  finger gaits  object reposing actions  optimization  geometric in-hand regrasp planning  robots fingers  objects geometry  hands kinematic structure  kinematic feasibility  collision free  Planning  Robots  Optimization  Task analysis  Thumb  Collision avoidance 
Abstract: This paper explores the problem of autonomous, in-hand regrasping-the problem of moving from an initial grasp on an object to a desired grasp using the dexterity of a robot's fingers. We propose a planner for this problem which alternates between finger gaiting, and in-grasp manipulation. Finger gaiting enables the robot to move a single finger to a new contact location on the object, while the remaining fingers stably hold the object. In-grasp manipulation moves the object to a new pose relative to the robot's palm, while maintaining the contact locations between the hand and object. Given the object's geometry (as a mesh), the hand's kinematic structure, and the initial and desired grasps, we plan a sequence of finger gaits and object reposing actions to reach the desired grasp without dropping the object. We propose an optimization based approach and report in-hand regrasping plans for 5 objects over 5 in-hand regrasp goals each. The plans generated by our planner are collision free and guarantee kinematic feasibility.


Title: Stable Prehensile Pushing: In-Hand Manipulation with Alternating Sticking Contacts
Key Words: dexterous manipulators  friction  manipulator dynamics  mechanical contact  motion control  path planning  frictional coefficients  pushing strategy  in-hand manipulation planning  dynamics formulation  object grasping  alternating sticking contacts  prehensile pushing stability  Planning  Dynamics  Grippers  Friction  Robots  Geometry  Force 
Abstract: This paper presents an approach to in-hand manipulation planning that exploits the mechanics of alternating sticking contact. Particularly, we consider the problem of manipulating a grasped object using external pushes for which the pusher sticks to the object. Given the physical properties of the object, frictional coefficients at contacts and a desired regrasp on the object, we propose a sampling-based planning framework that builds a pushing strategy concatenating different feasible stable pushes to achieve the desired regrasp. An efficient dynamics formulation allows us to plan in-hand manipulations 100-1000 times faster than our previous work which builds upon a complementarity formulation. Experimental observations for the generated plans show that the object precisely moves in the grasp as expected by the planner.


Title: Rearrangement with Nonprehensile Manipulation Using Deep Reinforcement Learning
Key Words: learning (artificial intelligence)  manipulators  mobile robots  path planning  potential field-based heuristic exploration strategy  deep Q-network  nonprehensile rearrangement strategy  physical environment  physical world  skillful interaction  tabletop surface  rearranging objects  deep reinforcement learning  nonprehensile manipulation  quicker learning  training process  Planning  Task analysis  Robots  Tools  Cameras  Visualization  Training 
Abstract: Rearranging objects on a tabletop surface by means of nonprehensile manipulation is a task which requires skillful interaction with the physical world. Usually, this is achieved by precisely modeling physical properties of the objects, robot, and the environment for explicit planning. In contrast, as explicitly modeling the physical environment is not always feasible and involves various uncertainties, we learn a nonprehensile rearrangement strategy with deep reinforcement learning based on only visual feedback. For this, we model the task with rewards and train a deep Q-network. Our potential field-based heuristic exploration strategy reduces the amount of collisions which lead to suboptimal outcomes and we actively balance the training set to avoid bias towards poor examples. Our training process leads to quicker learning and better performance on the task as compared to uniform exploration and standard experience replay. We demonstrate empirical evidence from simulation that our method leads to a success rate of 85%, show that our system can cope with sudden changes of the environment, and compare our performance with human level performance.


Title: Responsive and Reactive Dual-Arm Robot Coordination
Key Words: collision avoidance  control engineering computing  industrial robots  manipulators  mobile robots  motion control  multi-robot systems  path planning  dual-arm robot coordination  temporal coordination  spatial coordination  shared workspace  industrial service-oriented robotics  user experience  execution performance  independently planned motions  dual-arm manipulator  motion commands  robot motion  ABB YuMi robot  Robot kinematics  Trajectory  Collision avoidance  Task analysis  Service robots  Manipulators 
Abstract: The need for temporal and spatial coordination of two robot arms moving independently in a shared workspace frequently arises in industrial and service-oriented robotics alike. Today, this problem is often solved manually, leading to a negative impact on user experience as well as on execution performance. In this paper, we present an algorithm that is able to automatically coordinate independently planned motions of a dual-arm manipulator during execution. In addition, the algorithm is capable of refining the plan upon receiving new motion commands during the robot motion. We demonstrate the effectiveness and efficiency of the proposed approach on an ABB YuMi robot working on an industrial palletizing task.


Title: Online Safe Trajectory Generation for Quadrotors Using Fast Marching Method and Bernstein Basis Polynomial
Key Words: autonomous aerial vehicles  clutter  computational geometry  convex programming  helicopters  indoor environment  mobile robots  path planning  polynomials  search problems  state estimation  trajectory control  online safe trajectory generation  Bernstein basis polynomial  onboard state estimation  velocity field  Euclidean signed distance field  time allocation  flight corridor  piecewise Bézier curves  outdoor environments  convex programs  autonomous navigation  marching-based path searching method  light-weight quadrotor platform  online quadrotor motion planning  cluttered indoor environments  ESDF  open-source package  Resource management  Planning  Trajectory optimization  Safety  Autonomous robots 
Abstract: In this paper, we propose a framework for online quadrotor motion planning for autonomous navigation in unknown environments. Based on the onboard state estimation and environment perception, we adopt a fast marching-based path searching method to find a path on a velocity field induced by the Euclidean signed distance field (ESDF) of the map, to achieve better time allocation. We generate a flight corridor for the quadrotor to travel through by inflating the path against the environment. We represent the trajectory as piecewise Bézier curves by using Bernstein polynomial basis and formulate the trajectory generation problem as typical convex programs. By using Bézier curves, we are able to bound positions and higher order dynamics of the trajectory entirely within safe regions. The proposed motion planning method is integrated into a customized light-weight quadrotor platform and is validated by presenting fully autonomous navigation in unknown cluttered indoor and outdoor environments. We also release our code for trajectory generation as an open-source package.


Title: Coverage Path Planning Under the Energy Constraint
Key Words: approximation theory  geometry  mobile robots  path planning  energy constraint  coverage path planning problem  battery limitations  working environment  geometric version  polygonal grid  single charging station  energy consumption  constant-factor approximation algorithm  contour-connected environments  aerial robot  mobile robot systems  Robots  Charging stations  Approximation algorithms  Path planning  Batteries  Partitioning algorithms  Energy consumption 
Abstract: In the coverage path planning problem, a common assumption is that the robot can fully cover the environment without recharging. However, in reality most mobile robot systems operate under battery limitations. To incorporate this constraint, we consider the problem when the working environment is large and the robot needs to recharge multiple times to fully cover the environment. We focus on a geometric version where the environment is represented as a polygonal grid with a single charging station. Energy consumption throughout the environment is assumed to be uniform and proportional to the distance traveled. We first present a constant-factor approximation algorithm for contour-connected environments. We then extend the algorithm for general environments. We also validate the results in experiments performed with an aerial robot.


Title: The Dubins Car and Other Arm-Like Mobile Robots
Key Words: force control  Jacobian matrices  mobile robots  optimal control  path planning  robot kinematics  torque control  Dubins car  lagrange multipliers  external force  equal torques  arm Jacobian yields  optimal paths  arm-like mobile robots  robots arm kinematics  geometric interpretations  rotation center locations  Kinematics  Mobile robots  Trajectory  Automobiles  Manipulators  Mathematical model 
Abstract: This paper investigates the connection between the kinematics of robots arms and the shortest paths for mobile robots. Lagrange multipliers are used to show that the shortest paths are equivalent to arms in configurations that balance an external force, while applying equal torques and forces at each joint. Analysis of the arm Jacobian yields a further geometric interpretations of optimal paths, constraining the locations of rotation centers and the directions of translations that may occur along optimal paths.


Title: Planning, Fast and Slow: A Framework for Adaptive Real-Time Safe Trajectory Planning
Key Words: autonomous aerial vehicles  collision avoidance  mobile robots  multi-robot systems  path planning  trajectory control  motion planning  robotics community  FaSTrack  sensor measurements  meta-planning notion  Crazyflie 2.0 quadrotor  adaptive realtime safe trajectory planning  safety guarantee  online planner  offline computation  motion plans  modular safety guarantee  Planning  Trajectory  Safety  Real-time systems  Robustness  Navigation  Computational modeling 
Abstract: Motion planning is an extremely well-studied problem in the robotics community, yet existing work largely falls into one of two categories: computationally efficient but with few if any safety guarantees, or able to give stronger guarantees but at high computational cost. This work builds on a recent development called FaSTrack in which a slow offline computation provides a modular safety guarantee for a faster online planner. We introduce the notion of “meta-planning” in which a refined offline computation enables safe switching between different online planners. This provides autonomous systems with the ability to adapt motion plans to a priori unknown environments in real-time as sensor measurements detect new obstacles, and the flexibility to maneuver differently in the presence of obstacles than they would in free space, all while maintaining a strict safety guarantee. We demonstrate the meta-planning algorithm both in simulation and in hardware using a small Crazyflie 2.0 quadrotor.


Title: Know Rob 2.0 — A 2nd Generation Knowledge Processing Framework for Cognition-Enabled Robotic Agents
Key Words: knowledge based systems  knowledge representation  manipulator kinematics  manipulators  service robots  complex manipulation tasks  chemical experiments  first-order time interval logic knowledge base  logical expressions  robotics algorithms  motion planning  open-ended manipulation skills  commonsense knowledge  2nd generation knowledge processing framework  cognition-enabled robotic agents  generation knowledge representation  advanced knowledge  inverse kinematic problem solving  KnowRob2.0  Robots  Cognition  Data structures  Ontologies  Task analysis  Knowledge based systems  Physics 
Abstract: In this paper we present KnowRob2, a second generation knowledge representation and reasoning framework for robotic agents. KnowRob2 is an extension and partial redesign of KnowRob, currently one of the most advanced knowledge processing systems for robots that has enabled them to successfully perform complex manipulation tasks such as making pizza, conducting chemical experiments, and setting tables. The knowledge base appears to be a conventional first-order time interval logic knowledge base, but it exists to a large part only virtually: many logical expressions are constructed on demand from data structures of the control program, computed through robotics algorithms including ones for motion planning and solving inverse kinematics problems, and log data stored in noSQL databases. Novel features and extensions of KnowRob2 substantially increase the capabilities of robotic agents of acquiring open-ended manipulation skills and competence, reasoning about how to perform manipulation actions more realistically, and acquiring commonsense knowledge.


Title: Ctrl-MORE: A Framework to Integrate Controllers of Multi-DoF Robot for Developers and Users
Key Words: control system synthesis  feedback  mobile robots  multi-robot systems  path planning  robust control  software architecture  trajectory control  multiDoF robot  robotic applications  modular framework  software architecture  control developers  feedback controllers  coupling  software modules  Ctrl-MORE  manipulation  locomotion  vision  stabilizers  trajectory planners  robustness  Robots  Documentation  Software  Task analysis  Computer architecture  Hardware  Tools 
Abstract: In recent years, many different feedback controllers for robotic applications have been proposed and implemented. However, the high coupling between the different software modules made their integration into one common architecture difficult. Consequently, this has hindered the ability of a user to employ the different controllers into a single, general and modular framework. To address this problem, we present Ctrl-MORE, a software architecture developed to fill the gap between control developers and other users in robotic applications. On one hand, Ctrl-MORE aims to provide developers with an opportunity to integrate easily and share their controllers with other roboticists working in different areas. For example, manipulation, locomotion, vision and so on. On the other hand, it provides to end-users a tool to apply the additional control strategies that guarantee the execution of desired behaviors in a transparent, yet efficient way. The proposed control architecture allows an easier integration of general purpose feedback controllers, such as stabilizers, with higher control layers such as trajectory planners, increasing the robustness of the overall system.


Title: Learning User Preferences in Robot Motion Planning Through Interaction
Key Words: human-robot interaction  mobile robots  optimal control  path planning  user preferences  robot motion planning  complex task specifications  human-robot interaction  temporal constraints  complex robot tasks  user constraint  user-optimal path  spatial constraints  Task analysis  Service robots  Roads  Robot motion  Planning  Shortest path problem 
Abstract: In this paper we develop an approach for learning user preferences for complex task specifications through human-robot interaction. We consider the problem of planning robot motion in a known environment, but where a user has specified additional spatial and temporal constraints on allowable robot motions. To illustrate the impact of the user's constraints on performance, we iteratively present users with alternative solutions on an interface. The user provides a ranking of alternate paths, and from this we learn about the importance of different constraints. This allows for an accessible method for specifying complex robot tasks. We present an algorithm that iteratively builds a set of constraints on the relative importance of each user constraint, and prove that with sufficient interaction, the algorithm determines a user-optimal path. We demonstrate the practical performance by simulating realistic material transport scenarios in industrial facilities.


Title: Autonomous Battery Exchange of UAVs with a Mobile Ground Base
Key Words: autonomous aerial vehicles  control engineering computing  mobile robots  multi-robot systems  planetary rovers  small scale UAV  autonomous battery exchange operation  autonomous operations  landed UAV  ground rover  autonomous outdoor experiments  collaborative software framework  robotic systems  persistence  battery exchange mechanism  service station  robotic arm  mobile ground base  Batteries  Task analysis  Actuators  Robot kinematics  Planning  Manipulators 
Abstract: This paper presents the autonomous battery exchange operation for small scale UAVs, using a mobile ground base that carries a robotic arm and a service station containing the battery exchange mechanism. The goal of this work is to demonstrate the means to increase the autonomy and persistence of robotic systems without requiring human intervention. The design and control of the system and its components are presented in detail, as well as the collaborative software framework used to plan and execute complex missions. Finally, the results of autonomous outdoor experiments are presented, in which the ground rover successfully localizes, retrieves, services, and deploys the landed UAV, proving its capacity to extend and enhance autonomous operations.


Title: Learning Motion Predictors for Smart Wheelchair Using Autoregressive Sparse Gaussian Process
Key Words: adaptive control  autoregressive processes  distance measurement  Gaussian processes  handicapped aids  image capture  interactive devices  learning (artificial intelligence)  mobile robots  motion control  path planning  robot vision  wheelchairs  motion predictors  smart wheelchair  robotics  analog joystick inputs  black-box transformations  intuitive motion control  adaptable motion control  human operators  commercial PWC platform  physical modification  electronic modification  industry standard auxiliary input port  visual odometry  joystick signals  autoregressive sparse Gaussian process model  short-term path prediction experiments  powered wheelchair platform  RGB-D camera  Arduino interface board  motion data capture  standard axle mounted odometers  Cameras  Gaussian processes  Robot sensing systems  Wheelchairs  Mobile robots  Hardware 
Abstract: Constructing a smart wheelchair on a commercially available powered wheelchair (PWC) platform avoids a host of seating, mechanical design and reliability issues but requires methods of predicting and controlling the motion of a device never intended for robotics. Analog joystick inputs are subject to black-box transformations which may produce intuitive and adaptable motion control for human operators, but complicate robotic control approaches; furthermore, installation of standard axle mounted odometers on a commercial PWC is difficult. In this work, we present an integrated hardware and software system for predicting the motion of a commercial PWC platform that does not require any physical or electronic modification of the chair beyond plugging into an industry standard auxiliary input port. This system uses an RGB-D camera and an Arduino interface board to capture motion data, including visual odometry and joystick signals, via ROS communication. Future motion is predicted using an autoregressive sparse Gaussian process model. We evaluate the proposed system on real-world short-term path prediction experiments. Experimental results demonstrate the system's efficacy when compared to a baseline neural network model.


Title: Local Behavior-Based Navigation in Rough Off-Road Scenarios Based on Vehicle Kinematics
Key Words: mobile robots  off-road vehicles  path planning  robot dynamics  robot kinematics  trajectory control  elevation grid map  robot orientation  behavior-based control paradigm  rough terrains  traversability  occupancy maps  on-road local navigation approaches  trajectory candidates  behavior-based local navigation approach  vehicle kinematics  rough off-road scenarios  Wheels  Navigation  Trajectory  Robot sensing systems  Axles  Three-dimensional displays  robotics  off-road navigation  behavior-based control  tentacles 
Abstract: This paper describes a novel behavior-based local navigation approach for rough off-road scenarios. Trajectory candidates are generated based on vehicle kinematics and dynamics as well as the desired global trajectory. In contrast to on-road local navigation approaches, the work at hand proposes the use of a shiftable elevation grid map instead of occupancy maps since traversability in rough terrains does not only depend on location, but also on the robot's orientation. The traversability is evaluated by determining tire contact points with the terrain to take various different safety and efficiency aspects like underbody collisions and rollover risk into account. By exploiting the behavior-based control paradigm, the navigation approach can be easily extended and its robustness is shown in experimental evaluations using an Unimog U5023.


Title: Validation of the Robot Rendezvous and Grasping Manoeuvre Using Microgravity Simulators
Key Words: aerospace robotics  artificial satellites  control system synthesis  end effectors  industrial robots  multi-robot systems  path planning  space debris  space vehicles  robot rendezvous  grasping manoeuvre  unmanned chaser satellite  performing rendezvous  grasping manoeuvres  space debris  manoeuvres high disturbances  manipulator arm end-effector  robotic subsystem  chaser rendezvous  planar air-bearing microgravity simulators  industrial robots  specified test-bed system  Manipulators  Satellites  Orbits  Space vehicles  Service robots  Control systems 
Abstract: Robots mounted on an unmanned chaser satellite could be used for performing rendezvous and grasping manoeuvres in order to repair satellites or remove space debris from orbit. Use of manipulators for such purposes is challenging, since the performed task need to be done autonomously, accurately and with high level of robustness. During manoeuvres high disturbances might appear e.g. due to contact between the manipulator arm end-effector and the target spacecraft. In this paper an approach for validation of the robotic subsystem during chaser rendezvous and grasping manoeuvre has been shown. Two type of testbed systems were used: planar air-bearing microgravity simulators and a test-bed system with industrial robots. The proposed approach took advantage of possible replacement of particular subsystem in reference model or reference hardware in specified test-bed system. The list of tests performed are included in the paper.


Title: Kinematic Design Optimization of a Parallel Surgical Robot to Maximize Anatomical Visibility via Motion Planning
Key Words: biological tissues  manipulator kinematics  medical robotics  motion control  needles  optimisation  path planning  simulated annealing  surgery  tissue surface  CRISP robot  parallel structure connection points  global stochastic optimization algorithm  kinematic design optimization  parallel surgical robot  Continuum Reconfigurable Incisionless Surgical Parallel robot  needle-diameter medical robot  minimally invasive procedures  motion planning  anatomical visibility  adaptive simulated annealing  ASA  Electron tubes  Kinematics  Collision avoidance  Robot kinematics  Cameras  Robot vision systems 
Abstract: We introduce a method to optimize on a patient-specific basis the kinematic design of the Continuum Reconfigurable Incisionless Surgical Parallel (CRISP) robot, a needle-diameter medical robot based on a parallel structure that is capable of performing minimally invasive procedures. Our objective is to maximize the ability of the robot's tip camera to view tissue surfaces in constrained spaces. The kinematic design of the CRISP robot, which greatly influences its ability to perform a task, includes parameters that are fixed before the procedure begins, such as entry points into the body and parallel structure connection points. We combine a global stochastic optimization algorithm, Adaptive Simulated Annealing (ASA), with a motion planner designed specifically for the CRISP robot. ASA facilitates exploration of the robot's design space while the motion planner enables evaluation of candidate designs based on their ability to successfully view target regions on a tissue surface. By leveraging motion planning, we ensure that the evaluation of a design only considers motions which do not collide with the patient's anatomy. We analytically show that the method asymptotically converges to a globally optimal solution and demonstrate our algorithm's ability to optimize kinematic designs of the CRISP robot on a patient-specific basis.


Title: Planning-Aware Communication for Decentralised Multi-Robot Coordination
Key Words: control engineering computing  mobile robots  Monte Carlo methods  multi-robot systems  path planning  planning (artificial intelligence)  statistical distributions  tree searching  decentralised multirobot coordination  coordinated multirobot missions  polynomial-time belief-space planning algorithm  informative communication planning  planning-aware communication  multirobot information gathering  robot simulation  decentralised Monte Carlo tree search  Planning  Robot kinematics  Prediction algorithms  Probability distribution  Australia  Cognition 
Abstract: We present an algorithm for selecting when to communicate during online planning phases of coordinated multi-robot missions. The key idea is that a robot decides to request communication from another robot by reasoning over the predicted information value of communication messages over a sliding time-horizon, where communication messages are probability distributions over action sequences. We formulate this problem in the context of the recently proposed decentralised Monte Carlo tree search (Dec-MCTS) algorithm for online, decentralised multi-robot coordination. We propose a particle filter for predicting the information value, and a polynomial-time belief-space planning algorithm for finding the optimal communication schedules in an online and decentralised manner. We evaluate the benefit of informative communication planning for a multi-robot information gathering scenario with 8 simulated robots. Our results show reductions in channel utilisation of up to four-fifths with surprisingly little impact on coordination performance.


Title: Multi-Robot Realization Based on Goal Adjacency Constraints
Key Words: closed loop systems  matrix algebra  mobile robots  multi-robot systems  navigation  path planning  position control  velocity control  pairwise distances  velocity-controlled robot  multirobot realization  goal adjacency constraints  robot positions  exact goal positions  relative distances  pairwise adjacency constraints  multirobots  adjacency matrix  adjacency threshold  robot pairs  coordinated navigation  closed-loop dynamics  Conferences  Automation  Australia 
Abstract: This paper considers the problem of multi-robot realization. A realization is a set of robot positions where pairwise distances are either bounded from above or from below by a given adjacency threshold - depending on whether the respective robot pairs are to be adjacent or not. In the realization problem, unlike the related coordinated navigation or formation control problems, exact goal positions or relative distances need not be specified. Rather, only pairwise adjacency constraints are given and the robots' positions are required to satisfy these constraints. Applications of realization problem include multi-robots involved in team games (playing soccer, etc), patrolling and area coverage. We present a novel solution to this problem in which the robots simultaneously navigate to find a realization of a given adjacency matrix without colliding with each other along the way. In this solution, complete information about pairwise distances and free configuration space are encoded using an artificial potential function over the cross product space of the robots' simultaneous positions and proximity variables. The closed-loop dynamics governing the motion of each velocity-controlled robot take the form of the appropriate projection of the gradient of this function while pairwise distances are adjusted accordingly. Our extensive simulations demonstrate that the proposed approach has considerably higher realization percentage and shorter movement distances in comparison to a standard 2-stage approach.


Title: Cooperative Object Transportation by Multiple Ground and Aerial Vehicles: Modeling and Planning
Key Words: cables (mechanical)  dynamic programming  mobile robots  multi-robot systems  optimal control  path planning  planning problems  aerial robots  transportation task  ground robots  nonrigid inextensible cables  heterogeneous multirobot system  multiple aerial vehicles  general constrained optimal planning problem  multiple ground vehicles  cooperative object transportation  modeling problems  dynamic programming  Vehicle dynamics  Manipulators  Load modeling  Unmanned aerial vehicles  Dynamics 
Abstract: In this paper the modeling and planning problems of a system composed of multiple ground and aerial robots involved in a transportation task are considered. The ground robots rigidly grasp a load, while the aerial vehicles are attached to the object through non-rigid inextensible cables. The idea behind such a heterogeneous multi-robot system is to benefit of the advantages of both types of robots that might be the precision of ground robots, the increased payload of multiple aerial vehicles and their larger workspace. The overall model of the system is derived and its expression and redundancy are exploited by setting a general constrained optimal planning problem. The problem is herein solved by dynamic programming and simulation results validated the proposed scheme.


Title: Integrating Planning and Execution for a Team of Heterogeneous Robots with Time and Communication Constraints
Key Words: autonomous aerial vehicles  delays  distributed control  mobile robots  multi-robot systems  intermittent communications  high-level decision skills  distributed decision architecture  hybrid planner  distributed execution algorithm  delays  surveillance missions  ground robots  heterogeneous robots  field multirobot missions  autonomous aerial robot  unavoidable disturbances  integrating planning and execution  communication constrains  time constraints  decentralized repairs  Maintenance engineering  Planning  Computer architecture  Robot kinematics  Surveillance  Delays 
Abstract: Field multi-robot missions face numerous unavoidable disturbances, such as delays in executing tasks and intermittent communications. Coping with such disturbances requires to endow the robots with high-level decision skills. We present a distributed decision architecture based first on a hybrid planner that can manage decentralized repairs with partial communication, and secondly on a distributed execution algorithm that efficiently propagates delays. This architecture has been successfully experimented on the field for the achievement of surveillance missions involving eight (8) real autonomous aerial and ground robots.


Title: Socially Compliant Navigation Through Raw Depth Inputs with Generative Adversarial Imitation Learning
Key Words: learning (artificial intelligence)  mobile robots  path planning  socially compliant navigation  raw depth inputs  mobile robots  socially compliant manner  generative adversarial imitation learning strategy  raw sensory input  GAIL-based approach  behavior cloning policy  social force model  Force  Navigation  Cloning  Sensors  Mobile robots  Learning (artificial intelligence)  Visualization 
Abstract: We present an approach for mobile robots to learn to navigate in dynamic environments with pedestrians via raw depth inputs, in a socially compliant manner. To achieve this, we adopt a generative adversarial imitation learning (GAIL) strategy, which improves upon a pre-trained behavior cloning policy. Our approach overcomes the disadvantages of previous methods, as they heavily depend on the full knowledge of the location and velocity information of nearby pedestrians, which not only requires specific sensors, but also the extraction of such state information from raw sensory input could consume much computation time. In this paper, our proposed GAIL-based model performs directly on raw depth inputs and plans in real-time. Experiments show that our GAIL-based approach greatly improves the safety and efficiency of the behavior of mobile robots from pure behavior cloning. The real-world deployment also shows that our method is capable of guiding autonomous vehicles to navigate in a socially compliant manner directly through raw depth inputs. In addition, we release a simulation plugin for modeling pedestrian behaviors based on the social force model.


Title: Learning Sensor Feedback Models from Demonstrations via Phase-Modulated Neural Networks
Key Words: adaptive control  feedback  humanoid robots  learning (artificial intelligence)  mobile robots  path planning  radial basis function networks  tactile sensors  phase-modulated neural networks  feedback model maps  motion plan adaptation  radial basis function network structure  tactile sensor traces  data-driven framework  anthropomorphic robot  Robot sensing systems  Adaptation models  Task analysis  Mathematical model  Neural networks  Quaternions 
Abstract: In order to robustly execute a task under environmental uncertainty, a robot needs to be able to reactively adapt to changes arising in its environment. The environment changes are usually reflected in deviation from expected sensory traces. These deviations in sensory traces can be used to drive the motion adaptation, and for this purpose, a feedback model is required. The feedback model maps the deviations in sensory traces to the motion plan adaptation. In this paper, we develop a general data-driven framework for learning a feedback model from demonstrations. We utilize a variant of a radial basis function network structure -with movement phases as kernel centers- which can generally be applied to represent any feedback models for movement primitives. To demonstrate the effectiveness of our framework, we test it on the task of scraping on a tilt board. In this task, we are learning a reactive policy in the form of orientation adaptation, based on deviations of tactile sensor traces. As a proof of concept of our method, we provide evaluations on an anthropomorphic robot.


Title: Relocalization, Global Optimization and Map Merging for Monocular Visual-Inertial SLAM
Key Words: cameras  distance measurement  graph theory  inertial navigation  mobile robots  optimisation  path planning  pose estimation  robot vision  SLAM (robots)  relocalization  global optimization  monocular visual-inertial SLAM  visual-inertial system  low-cost inertial measurement unit  state estimation  visual-inertial odometry  absolute pose estimation  visual-inertial SLAM system  global pose graph optimization  map merging ability  map reuse  pose graph optimization  Cameras  Optimization  Visualization  Feature extraction  Microsoft Windows  Simultaneous localization and mapping  Real-time systems 
Abstract: The monocular visual-inertial system (VINS), which consists one camera and one low-cost inertial measurement unit (IMU), is a popular approach to achieve accurate 6-DOF state estimation. However, such locally accurate visual-inertial odometry is prone to drift and cannot provide absolute pose estimation. Leveraging history information to relocalize and correct drift has become a hot topic. In this paper, we propose a monocular visual-inertial SLAM system, which can relocalize camera and get the absolute pose in a previous-built map. Then 4-DOF pose graph optimization is performed to correct drifts and achieve global consistent. The 4-DOF contains x, y, z, and yaw angle, which is the actual drifted direction in the visual-inertial system. Furthermore, the proposed system can reuse a map by saving and loading it in an efficient way. Current map and previous map can be merged together by the global pose graph optimization. We validate the accuracy of our system on public datasets and compare against other state-of-the-art algorithms. We also evaluate the map merging ability of our system in the large-scale outdoor environment. The source code of map reuse is integrated into our public code, VINS-Monol11https://github.com/HKUST-Aerial-Robotics/VINS-Mono.


Title: Distributed Multi-Robot Cooperation for Information Gathering Under Communication Constraints
Key Words: cooperative systems  decision making  distributed control  Gaussian processes  multi-robot systems  path planning  Gaussian processes  path planning  path clustering  multi-robot exploration  inter-robot communication constraints  information-theoretic utility function  Max-sum algorithm  distributed decision-making algorithm  multirobot information gathering  inter-robot restrictions  distributed multirobot cooperation  Clustering algorithms  Robot kinematics  Robot sensing systems  Heuristic algorithms  Linear programming 
Abstract: Many recent works have proposed algorithms for information gathering that benefit from multi-robot cooperation. However, most algorithms either employ discretization of the state and action spaces, which makes them computationally intractable for robotic systems with complex dynamics; or cannot deal with inter-robot restrictions like e.g. communication constraints. This paper presents an approach for multi-robot information gathering that tackles the two aforementioned issues. To this end we propose an algorithm that combines in an innovative manner Gaussian processes (GPs) to model the physical process of interest, RRT planners to plan paths in a continuous domain, and a distributed decision-making algorithm to achieve multi-robot cooperation. Specifically, we employ the Max-sum algorithm for distributed multi-robot cooperation by defining an information-theoretic utility function together with a path clustering approach. This function maximizes information gathering, subject to inter-robot communication constraints. We validate the proposed approach in simulations, and in a field experiment where three quadcopters explore a simulated wind field. Results demonstrate the effectiveness of the approach.


Title: Automated Pick-Up of Suturing Needles for Robotic Surgical Assistance
Key Words: cancer  endoscopes  medical image processing  medical robotics  needles  robot vision  surgery  surgical tool  RALP  urethrovesical anastomosis  robotic surgical assistance  robot-assisted laparoscopic prostatectomy  prostate cancer  nerve sparing removal prostate tissue  bladder neck  dexterity demanding tasks  suturing instruments  robotic instruments  vision-guided needle grasping method  suturing needle  grasping process  needle detection algorithm  Needles  Grasping  Robots  Tools  Instruments  Surgery  Task analysis 
Abstract: Robot-assisted laparoscopic prostatectomy (RALP) is a treatment for prostate cancer that involves complete or nerve sparing removal prostate tissue that contains cancer. After removal the bladder neck is successively sutured directly with the urethra. The procedure is called urethrovesical anastomosis and is one of the most dexterity demanding tasks during RALP. Two suturing instruments and a pair of needles are used in combination to perform a running stitch during urethrovesical anastomosis. While robotic instruments provide enhanced dexterity to perform the anastomosis, it is still highly challenging and difficult to learn. In this paper, we presents a vision-guided needle grasping method for automatically grasping the needle that has been inserted into the patient prior to anastomosis. We aim to automatically grasp the suturing needle in a position that avoids hand-offs and immediately enables the start of suturing. The full grasping process can be broken down into: a needle detection algorithm; an approach phase where the surgical tool moves closer to the needle based on visual feedback; and a grasping phase through path planning based on observed surgical practice. Our experimental results show examples of successful autonomous grasping that has the potential to simplify and decrease the operational time in RALP by assisting a small component of urethrovesical anastomosis.


Title: Reliably Arranging Objects in Uncertain Domains
Key Words: learning (artificial intelligence)  manipulators  mobile robots  multi-robot systems  path planning  control uncertainty  conformant planning approach  robot manipulation  multiple planar objects  specified arrangement  external sensing  belief-state planning problem  initial belief state  forward belief-state planning  deterministic belief-state transition model  off-line physics simulations  on-line physics-based manipulation approach  physical robot experiments  uncertain domains  Planning  Robot sensing systems  Task analysis  Reliability  Computational modeling  Uncertainty 
Abstract: A crucial challenge in robotics is achieving reliable results in spite of sensing and control uncertainty. In this work, we explore the conformant planning approach to robot manipulation. In particular, we tackle the problem of pushing multiple planar objects simultaneously to achieve a specified arrangement without external sensing. Conformant planning is a belief-state planning problem. A belief state is the set of all possible states of the world, and the goal is to find a sequence of actions that will bring an initial belief state to a goal belief state. To do forward belief-state planning, we created a deterministic belief-state transition model from supervised learning based on off-line physics simulations. We compare our method with an on-line physics-based manipulation approach and show significantly reduced planning times and increased robustness in simulated experiments. Finally, we demonstrate the success of this approach in simulations and physical robot experiments.


Title: RoboTSP – A Fast Solution to the Robotic Task Sequencing Problem
Key Words: industrial robots  travelling salesman problems  Robotic Task Sequencing Problem  industrial robotics applications  spray-painting  robot travel time  execution time  robot configurations  task space  configuration space  RTSP literature  Generalized Traveling Salesman Problem  Task analysis  Measurement  Collision avoidance  Service robots  Planning  Space exploration 
Abstract: In many industrial robotics applications, such as spot-welding, spray-painting or drilling, the robot is required to visit successively multiple targets. The robot travel time among the targets is a significant component of the overall execution time. This travel time is in turn greatly affected by the order of visit of the targets, and by the robot configurations used to reach each target. Therefore, it is crucial to optimize these two elements, a problem known in the literature as the Robotic Task Sequencing Problem (RTSP). Our contribution in this paper is two-fold. First, we propose a fast, near-optimal, algorithm to solve RTSP. The key to our approach is to exploit the classical distinction between task space and configuration space, which, surprisingly, has been so far overlooked in the RTSP literature. Second, we provide an open-source implementation of the above algorithm, which has been carefully benchmarked to yield an efficient, ready-to-use, software solution. We discuss the relationship between RTSP and other Traveling Salesman Problem (TSP) variants, such as the Generalized Traveling Salesman Problem (GTSP), and show experimentally that our method finds motion sequences of the same quality but using several orders of magnitude less computation time than existing approaches.


Title: Robotic Cleaning Through Dirt Rearrangement Planning with Learned Transition Models
Key Words: cleaning  learning (artificial intelligence)  manipulators  mobile robots  path planning  sampling methods  service robots  PR2 robots  Fetch robots  primitive dirt-oriented tool actions  heuristic search  cleaning tool  arbitrary amounts  manipulator  learned transition models  dirt rearrangement planning  robotic cleaning  Tools  Planning  Surface cleaning  Manipulators  Task analysis 
Abstract: We address the problem of enabling a manipulator to move arbitrary amounts and configurations of dirt on a surface to a goal region using a cleaning tool. We represent this problem as heuristic search with a set of primitive dirt-oriented tool actions. We present dirt and action representations that allow efficient learning and prediction of future dirt states, given the current dirt state and applied action. We also present a method for sampling promising actions based on a clustering of dirt states and heuristics for planning. We demonstrate the effectiveness of our approach on challenging cleaning tasks through implementations on PR2 and Fetch robots.


Title: Fast Planning for 3D Any-Pose-Reorienting Using Pivoting
Key Words: dexterous manipulators  geometry  grippers  mesh generation  solid modelling  fast planning  two-finger pinch gripper  3D mesh model  gripper motions  arbitrary object  grasping positions  gripper poses  motion primitives  compliant rolling  planning problem  object shapes  nontrivial geometry  gripper workspace  3D Any-pose-reorienting  mesh models approximation  pivoting  Grippers  Planning  Gravity  Robots  Three-dimensional displays  Friction 
Abstract: In this paper, we consider reorienting 3D objects on a table using a two-finger pinch gripper. Given the 3D mesh model of the object, our algorithm solves for the gripper motions that are required to transit between arbitrary object poses, grasping positions and gripper poses. The two motion primitives we used, pivoting and compliant rolling, enable us to decompose the planning problem and solve it more efficiently. Our algorithm can work with approximated (simplified) mesh models while being robust to approximation errors, thereby allowing us to efficiently handle object shapes with originally thousands of facets. We show the effectiveness of the proposed method by testing on objects with non-trivial geometry in both simulations and experiments. Results show that our algorithm can solve a larger range of reorienting problems with less number of making and breaking contacts when compared to traditional pick-and-place based methods, especially when the gripper workspace is highly constrained.


Title: Task Space Motion Planning Decomposition
Key Words: manipulators  mobile robots  path planning  autonomous robotics  T-Space parameters  maze navigation  path planning  motion planning  Task Space Motion Planning Decomposition  TSMPD  manipulator  Planning  Task analysis  Manipulators  Manifolds  Kinematics  Robot kinematics 
Abstract: In autonomous robotics there are many situations that require solving a motion planning problem to complete a task. A Task Space (T-Space), composed of parameters that define the task being performed, can be a more effective planning space for these problems, however, planning within a T-Space is often computationally challenging. In this paper, we present a novel method to analyse the relationship between T-Space parameters and the pose of manipulator bodies to create a dependency matrix. We then use this information to decompose the motion planning problem into sequential lower complexity sub-problems. We call this approach Task Space Motion Planning Decomposition (TSMPD). This paper introduces TSMPD and quantifies the improvement to planning efficiency on a challenging maze navigation problem and weld path planning problem.


Title: Planning Hybrid Driving-Stepping Locomotion on Multiple Levels of Abstraction
Key Words: legged locomotion  path planning  navigating  rescue environments  locomotion methods  navigation planning method  hybrid driving-stepping locomotion planning  Momaro robot  robot state dimensionality  Planning  Robot sensing systems  Legged locomotion  Semantics  Motion segmentation 
Abstract: Navigating in search and rescue environments is challenging, since a variety of terrains has to be considered. Hybrid driving-stepping locomotion, as provided by our robot Momaro, is a promising approach. Similar to other locomotion methods, it incorporates many degrees of freedom - offering high flexibility but making planning computationally expensive for larger environments. We propose a navigation planning method, which unifies different levels of representation in a single planner. In the vicinity of the robot, it provides plans with a fine resolution and a high robot state dimensionality. With increasing distance from the robot, plans become coarser and the robot state dimensionality decreases. We compensate this loss of information by enriching coarser representations with additional semantics. Experiments show that the proposed planner provides plans for large, challenging scenarios in feasible time.


Title: Design and Evaluation of Skating Motions for a Dexterous Quadruped
Key Words: control system synthesis  legged locomotion  mobile robots  motion control  robot dynamics  wheels  Dexterous Quadruped  contact force distribution  wheel slip  three-wheeled skating maneuvers  omnidirectional motion primitives  dexterous limbs  quadruped robot  skating motions  locomotion  continuous ground contact  Wheels  Mobile robots  Planning  Force  Trajectory  Acceleration 
Abstract: This paper describes skating locomotion for a quadruped robot with dexterous limbs. The emphasis is on design of omnidirectional motion primitives and quantification of resulting speed and accuracy when traversing different types of smooth but potentially non-flat terrain. In particular, we study trade-offs between using four-wheeled versus three-wheeled skating maneuvers. In four-wheeled skating, motions have the benefit of symmetry, so that errors due to wheel slip should theoretically cancel out on average. Three-wheeled skating, by contrast, introduces significantly more asymmetry in configuration and contact force distribution over time; however, it has the advantage of guaranteeing continuous ground contact for all skates when terrain has bumps or other curvature. We present simulation results quantifying errors for each approach, for various terrains. Our results allow us to tune motions to reduce biases and variability in motion, which are primarily due to accelerations as locomotion begins.


Title: Gradient-Informed Path Smoothing for Wheeled Mobile Robots
Key Words: gradient methods  mobile robots  motion control  optimal control  optimisation  path planning  robot dynamics  robot kinematics  smoothing methods  trajectory control  wheels  wheeled mobile robots  crowded environments  optimal sampling-based motion planners  nonoptimal motion planners  post-smoothing step  gradient-informed post-smoothing algorithm  gradient-informed path smoothing  smooth trajectories planning  GRIPS  kinodynamic constraints  Trajectory  Smoothing methods  Shape  Mobile robots  Interpolation  Strain 
Abstract: Planning smooth trajectories is important for the safe, efficient and comfortable operation of mobile robots, such as wheeled robots moving in crowded environments or cars moving at high speed. Asymptotically optimal sampling-based motion planners can be used to generate such trajectories. However, to achieve the necessary efficiency for the realtime operation of robots, one often uses their initial feasible trajectories or the trajectories of non-optimal motion planners instead, typically after a post-smoothing step. We propose a gradient-informed post-smoothing algorithm, called GRIPS, that deforms given trajectories by locally optimizing the placement of vertices while satisfying the system's kinodynamic constraints. We show experimentally that GRIPS typically produces trajectories of significantly smaller length and higher smoothness than several existing post-smoothing algorithms.


Title: Indoor Coverage Path Planning: Survey, Implementation, Analysis
Key Words: mobile robots  path planning  service robots  trajectory control  indoor coverage path planning  robot trajectories  mobile cleaning robots  lawn mowing robots  harvesting machines  Path planning  Cleaning  Robot sensing systems  Planning  Traveling salesman problems 
Abstract: Coverage Path Planning (CPP) describes the process of generating robot trajectories that fully cover an area or volume. Applications are, amongst many others, mobile cleaning robots, lawn mowing robots or harvesting machines in agriculture. Many approaches and facets of this problem have been discussed in literature but despite the availability of several surveys on the topic there is little work on quantitative assessment and comparison of different coverage path planning algorithms. This paper analyzes six popular off-line coverage path planning methods, applicable to previously recorded maps, in the setting of indoor coverage path planning on room-sized units. The implemented algorithms are thoroughly compared on a large dataset of over 550 rooms with and without furniture.


Title: Robot Navigation in Complex Workspaces Using Harmonic Maps
Key Words: geometry  mobile robots  motion control  path planning  robot vision  SLAM (robots)  complex workspaces  harmonic maps  Artificial Potential Fields  autonomous robot navigation control schemes  local minima  APF based control scheme  goal configuration  multiply connected compact 2D workspaces  Harmonic analysis  Navigation  Robot kinematics  Convergence  Tuning  Trajectory 
Abstract: Artificial Potential Fields (APFs) constitute an intuitive tool for designing autonomous robot navigation control schemes, though they generally suffer from the existence of local minima which may trap the robot away from its desired configuration, an issue usually addressed by appropriate offline “tuning” of the potential field's parameters. On the other side, most APF based approaches rely on a diffeomorphism to sphere worlds to handle realistic scenarios, which may be either costly to compute (e.g., conformal mappings) or requires some sort of preconditioning of the workspace (e.g., decomposition of complex geometries to simple elementary components). In this work, we first propose a constructive procedure to map multiply connected compact 2D workspaces to one or more punctured disks based on harmonic maps. Subsequently, we design an APF based control scheme along with an adaptive law for its parameters that requires no offline tuning to guarantee safe convergence to its goal configuration. Finally, an extensive simulation study is conducted to demonstrate the efficacy of the proposed control scheme.


Title: Simultaneous Optimization of ZMP and Footsteps Based on the Analytical Solution of Divergent Component of Motion
Key Words: legged locomotion  linear systems  motion control  nonlinear control systems  path planning  pendulums  quadratic programming  DCM  ZMP  foot placements  bipedal research  quadratic programming problem  optimization  divergent component of motion  Real-time planning  linear inverted pendulum  zero moment point  push recovery experiment  disturbance compensation  Planning  Lips  Trajectory  Foot  Real-time systems  Optimization  Laplace equations 
Abstract: Real-time planning of footsteps has been a big challenge for bipedal research. A large number of methods have been proposed over the last several years. In addition, divergent component of motion (DCM) of linear inverted pendulum (LIP) has been applied to solve this problem thus attracting a great deal of attention. In this paper, we derive an analytical solution of DCM for an arbitrary input function and propose a novel quadratic programming (QP) problem for the simultaneous optimization of zero moment point (ZMP) and foot placements based on the analytical solution. To validate the method, we conducted a push recovery experiment on real hardware. The result of the experiment shows that our new algorithm realizes a hierarchical strategy for disturbance compensation.


Title: Inclusion of Angular Momentum During Planning for Capture Point Based Walking
Key Words: angular momentum  gait analysis  humanoid robots  legged locomotion  motion control  trajectory control  smooth trajectories  continuous trajectories  leg swing  nonnegligible angular momentum rate  reference trajectory generator  bipedal walking  centroidal angular momentum  planning stage  closed-form trajectory solutions  centroidal moment pivot  instantaneous capture point  CMP  ICP  center of mass  Legged locomotion  Trajectory  Iterative closest point algorithm  Planning  Dynamics  Lips 
Abstract: When walking at high speeds, the swing legs of robots produce a non-negligible angular momentum rate. To accommodate this, we provide a reference trajectory generator for bipedal walking that incorporates predicted centroidal angular momentum at the planning stage. This can be done efficiently as the Centroidal Moment Pivot (CMP), Instantaneous Capture Point (ICP) and the center of mass (CoM) all have closed-form trajectory solutions due to their linear dynamics. This is then used to produce smooth, continuous trajectories. We furthermore provide a lightweight model to estimate angular momentum as induced during leg swing of the gait cycle. Our proposed trajectory generator is tested thoroughly in simulation and has been shown to successfully operate on the real hardware.


Title: Semantic Mapping with Omnidirectional Vision
Key Words: cameras  distortion  image classification  image fusion  image segmentation  image sensors  mobile robots  path planning  robot vision  SLAM (robots)  omnidirectional vision  omnidirectional images  robust segmentation  occupancy grid maps  inverse sensor model  nonlinear distortions  omnidirectional camera mirror  place category classifier  range-based occupancy grid  dense semantic map  bird eye view  visual semantic mapping framework  robot local free space  Semantics  Sensors  Cameras  Robots  Buildings  Mirrors  Visualization 
Abstract: This paper presents a purely visual semantic mapping framework using omnidirectional images. The approach rests upon the robust segmentation of the robot's local free space, replacing conventional range sensors for the generation of occupancy grid maps. The perceptions are mapped into a bird's eye view allowing an inverse sensor model directly by removing the non-linear distortions of the omnidirectional camera mirror. The system relies on a place category classifier to label the navigation relevant categories: room, corridor, doorway, and open room. Each place class maintains a separated grid map that are fused with the range-based occupancy grid for building a dense semantic map.


Title: Planning Ergonomic Sequences of Actions in Human-Robot Interaction
Key Words: ergonomics  human-robot interaction  multi-agent systems  multi-robot systems  path planning  optimization formulation  ergonomic situations  human-robot interaction  human-robot collaboration  motion planning problem  multiagent case  human robot  Ergonomics  Task analysis  Robot kinematics  Planning  Cost function 
Abstract: In this paper, we define the problem of human-robot collaboration as a combined task and motion planning problem which is extended to the multi-agent case (human and robot). Our proposed approach allows us to explicitly take into account ergonomic cost, synchrony and concurrency of behavior in an optimization formulation. We show simulated results as well as an experiment with a real robot combined with a user study. Results show that optimizing over a sequence of actions leads to more ergonomic situations.


Title: Playdough to Roombots: Towards a Novel Tangible User Interface for Self-reconfigurable Modular Robots
Key Words: control engineering computing  furniture  mobile robots  robot dynamics  user interfaces  self-reconfigurable modular robots  shape-shift  self-reconfigurable furniture  intuitive user interface  tangible user interface  Roombots shape  3D shape scanning  SRMR system  Shape  Three-dimensional displays  User interfaces  Solid modeling  Robots  Planning  Buildings  tangible user interface  self-reconfigurable modular robots  deformable material  shape formation 
Abstract: One of the main strengths of self-reconfigurable modular robots (SRMR) is their ability to shape-shift and dynamically change their morphology. In the case of our SRMR system “Roombots”, these shapes can be quite arbitrary for a great variety of tasks while the major utility is envisioned to be self-reconfigurable furniture. As such, the ideas and inspirations from users quickly need to be translated into the final Roombots shape. This involves a multitude of separate processes and - most importantly - requires an intuitive user interface. Our current approach led to the development of a tangible user interface (TUI) which involves 3D-scanning of a shape formed by modeling clay and the necessary steps to prepare the digitized model to be formed by Roombots. The system is able to generate a solution in less than two minutes for our target use as demonstrated with various examples.


Title: Safe and Efficient Human-Robot Collaboration Part I: Estimation of Human Arm Motions
Key Words: human-robot interaction  manipulator dynamics  motion control  path planning  human arm motions  fenceless robot cells  safety requirements  robot motions  control-oriented dynamic model  human-robot collaboration  cycle times  admissible path velocity  Collision avoidance  Manipulators  Kinematics  Collaboration  Safety  Task analysis 
Abstract: A significant barrier regarding a successful implementation of fenceless robot cells into manufacturing areas with humans is given by the inefficiency due to safety requirements. Robot motions have to be slowed down so that an unexpected collision with a human does not result in human injuries. This velocity reduction leads to longer cycle times and, hence, fenceless robot cells turn out as uneconomic. In this paper, a new approach for human-robot collaboration in assembly tasks is presented. For a better performance of the robot, methods are investigated on how the robot can exploit a maximum performance while maintaining the safety of collaborating humans. For this purpose, the kinematics and dynamics of a human arm are described by a control-oriented dynamic model to determine its capability and reachability. Successful experiments validate the dynamic model as well as a corresponding projection approach for calculating possible movements of the human arm that may lead to a collision with the robot. Finally, this information is used to calculate an admissible path velocity that minimizes the danger of human injuries.


Title: Navigating Occluded Intersections with Autonomous Vehicles Using Deep Reinforcement Learning
Key Words: learning systems  mobile robots  navigation  path planning  road vehicles  autonomous vehicles  unsignaled intersections  Deep RL  intersection handling problem  deep reinforcement learning system  occluded intersections  active sensing behaviors  Autonomous vehicles  Automobiles  Machine learning  Safety  Navigation  Learning (artificial intelligence) 
Abstract: Providing an efficient strategy to navigate safely through unsignaled intersections is a difficult task that requires determining the intent of other drivers. We explore the effectiveness of Deep Reinforcement Learning to handle intersection problems. Using recent advances in Deep RL, we are able to learn policies that surpass the performance of a commonly-used heuristic approach in several metrics including task completion time and goal success rate and have limited ability to generalize. We then explore a system's ability to learn active sensing behaviors to enable navigating safely in the case of occlusions. Our analysis, provides insight into the intersection handling problem, the solutions learned by the network point out several shortcomings of current rule-based methods, and the failures of our current deep reinforcement learning system point to future research directions.


Title: Scalable Decision Making with Sensor Occlusions for Autonomous Driving
Key Words: collision avoidance  decision making  Markov processes  mobile robots  optimisation  path planning  road safety  road vehicles  road users  scalable decision making  sensor occlusions  POMDP solution techniques  optimal avoidance strategy  decomposition method  computational cost  partially observable Markov decision process  robust navigation  autonomous driving  Automobiles  Uncertainty  Roads  Acceleration  Autonomous vehicles  Approximation algorithms  Robot sensing systems 
Abstract: Autonomous driving in urban areas requires avoiding other road users with only partial observability of the environment. Observations are only partial because obstacles can occlude the field of view of the sensors. The problem of robust and efficient navigation under uncertainty can be framed as a partially observable Markov decision process (POMDP). In order to bypass the computational cost of scaling the formulation to avoiding multiple road users, this paper demonstrates a decomposition method that leverages the optimal avoidance strategy for a single user. We evaluate the performance of two POMDP solution techniques augmented with the decomposition method for scenarios involving a pedestrian crosswalk and an intersection.


Title: Situation Assessment for Planning Lane Changes: Combining Recurrent Models and Prediction
Key Words: automobiles  driver information systems  intelligent transportation systems  learning (artificial intelligence)  mobile robots  prediction theory  recurrent neural nets  road safety  road traffic  road traffic control  fully autonomous cars  complex scenes  dynamic scenes  car following scenarios  situation assessment algorithm  lane changing  recurrent models  driver-assistance systems  bidirectional recurrent neural network  intelligent driver model  lane changes planning  maneuvers planning  driving situations classification  deep learning architecture  long short-term memory units  Automobiles  Planning  Machine learning  Predictive models  Prediction algorithms  Autonomous automobiles 
Abstract: One of the greatest challenges towards fully autonomous cars is the understanding of complex and dynamic scenes. Such understanding is needed for planning of maneuvers, especially those that are particularly frequent such as lane changes. While in recent years advanced driver-assistance systems have made driving safer and more comfortable, these have mostly focused on car following scenarios, and less on maneuvers involving lane changes. In this work we propose a situation assessment algorithm for classifying driving situations with respect to their suitability for lane changing. For this, we propose a deep learning architecture based on a Bidirectional Recurrent Neural Network, which uses Long Short-Term Memory units, and integrates a prediction component in the form of the Intelligent Driver Model. We prove the feasibility of our algorithm on the publicly available NGSIM datasets, where we outperform existing methods.


Title: Optimal Active Sensing with Process and Measurement Noise
Key Words: covariance matrices  eigenvalues and eigenfunctions  gradient methods  Kalman filters  mobile robots  noise measurement  nonlinear filters  observability  optimisation  path planning  Riccati equations  trajectory control  estimation algorithm  OG  nonnegligible process noise  largest eigenvalue  optimal active sensing  measurement noise  nonlinear differentially flat system  online gradient descent method  optimal trajectories  maximum estimation uncertainty  Kalman Filter  onboard sensors  observability gramian  inversely proportional  posteriori covariance matrix  continuous Riccati equation  unicycle robot  Robot sensing systems  Estimation  Trajectory  Eigenvalues and eigenfunctions  Observability 
Abstract: The goal of this paper is to increase the estimation performance of an Extended Kalman Filter for a nonlinear differentially flat system by planning trajectories able to maximize the amount of information gathered by onboard sensors in presence of both process and measurement noises. In a previous work, we presented an online gradient descent method for planning optimal trajectories along which the smallest eigenvalue of the Observability Gramian (OG) is maximized. As the smallest eigenvalue of the OG is inversely proportional to the maximum estimation uncertainty, its maximization reduces the maximum estimation uncertainty of any estimation algorithm employed during motion. However, the OG does not consider the process noise that, instead, in several applications is far from being negligible. For this reason, this paper proposes a novel solution able to cope with non-negligible process noise: this is achieved by minimizing the largest eigenvalue of the a posteriori covariance matrix obtained by solving the Continuous Riccati Equation as a measure of the total available information. This minimization is expected to maximize the information gathered by the outputs while, at the same time, limiting as much as possible the negative effects of the process noise. We apply our method to a unicycle robot. The comparison between the novel method and the one of our previous work (which did not consider process noise) shows significant improvements in the obtained estimation accuracy.


Title: Multi-Agent Time-Based Decision-Making for the Search and Action Problem
Key Words: computational complexity  control engineering computing  decision making  multi-agent systems  multi-robot systems  probability  rescue robots  search-and-rescue  task allocation  probabilistic reasoning  Gazebo-based environmenT  multiagent time-based decision-making  Mohamed Bin Zayed International Robotics Challenge  near-optimal decisions  agent action  allocated budget  time constraints  decentralized multiagent decision-making framework  computational complexity  task selection  missions present several challenges  robotic applications  action problem  Task analysis  Search problems  Decision making  Planning  Time factors  Robots  Probabilistic logic 
Abstract: Many robotic applications, such as search-and-rescue, require multiple agents to search for and perform actions on targets. However, such missions present several challenges, including cooperative exploration, task selection and allocation, time limitations, and computational complexity. To address this, we propose a decentralized multi-agent decision-making framework for the search and action problem with time constraints. The main idea is to treat time as an allocated budget in a setting where each agent action incurs a time cost and yields a certain reward. Our approach leverages probabilistic reasoning to make near-optimal decisions leading to maximized reward. We evaluate our method in the search, pick, and place scenario of the Mohamed Bin Zayed International Robotics Challenge (MBZIRC), by using a probability density map and reward prediction function to assess actions. Extensive simulations show that our algorithm outperforms benchmark strategies, and we demonstrate system integration in a Gazebo-based environment, validating the framework's readiness for field application.


Title: Multi-robot Dubins Coverage with Autonomous Surface Vehicles
Key Words: computational complexity  mobile robots  multi-robot systems  path planning  remotely operated vehicles  travelling salesman problems  multirobot Dubins coverage  aerial monitoring  single robot approaches  multirobot approaches  Dubins vehicle kinematics  environmental monitoring  multirobot team  Dubins vehicles  NP-complete problems  salesman problem-k-TSP-formulation  autonomous surface vehicles  large scale coverage operations  marine exploration  Robot sensing systems  Clustering algorithms  Task analysis  Lakes  Multi-robot systems  Kinematics 
Abstract: In large scale coverage operations, such as marine exploration or aerial monitoring, single robot approaches are not ideal, as they may take too long to cover a large area. In such scenarios, multi-robot approaches are preferable. Furthermore, several real world vehicles are non-holonomic, but can be modeled using Dubins vehicle kinematics. This paper focuses on environmental monitoring of aquatic environments using Autonomous Surface Vehicles (ASVs). In particular, we propose a novel approach for solving the problem of complete coverage of a known environment by a multi-robot team consisting of Dubins vehicles. It is worth noting that both multi-robot coverage and Dubins vehicle coverage are NP-complete problems. As such, we present two heuristics methods based on a variant of the traveling salesman problem-k-TSP-formulation and clustering algorithms that efficiently solve the problem. The proposed methods are tested both in simulations to assess their scalability and with a team of ASVs operating on a 200 km2 lake to ensure their applicability in real world.


Title: Joint Multi-Policy Behavior Estimation and Receding-Horizon Trajectory Planning for Automated Urban Driving
Key Words: collision avoidance  Markov processes  mobile robots  multi-robot systems  path planning  road vehicles  multipolicy decision-making  traffic participants  planned trajectory  ego-vehicle  safe trajectories  multiple motion policies  receding-horizon planner  simulated multivehicle intersection scenarios  joint multipolicy behavior  automated urban driving  urban environments  autonomous vehicle  multiple motion hypothesis  joint behavior estimation  observable Markov decision processes  receding-horizon control  receding-horizon trajectory planning  Trajectory  Planning  Estimation  Space vehicles  Uncertainty  Roads  Computational modeling 
Abstract: When driving in urban environments, an autonomous vehicle must account for the interaction with other traffic participants. It must reason about their future behavior, how its actions affect their future behavior, and potentially consider multiple motion hypothesis. In this paper we introduce a method for joint behavior estimation and trajectory planning that models interaction and multi-policy decision-making. The method leverages Partially Observable Markov Decision Processes to estimate the behavior of other traffic participants given the planned trajectory for the ego-vehicle, and Receding-Horizon Control for generating safe trajectories for the ego-vehicle. To achieve safe navigation we introduce chance constraints over multiple motion policies in the receding-horizon planner. These constraints account for uncertainty over the behavior of other traffic participants. The method is capable of running in real-time and we show its performance and good scalability in simulated multi-vehicle intersection scenarios.


Title: Bodily Aware Soft Robots: Integration of Proprioceptive and Exteroceptive Sensors
Key Words: cameras  convolution  dexterous manipulators  mobile robots  object tracking  path planning  recurrent neural nets  sensors  bodily aware soft robots  exteroceptive sensors  proprioceptive sensors  bend sensors  visual sensor  nonlinearity  octopus-inspired arm  camera record  arm capturing  internal sensory signals  stacked convolutional autoencoder  CAE  recurrent neural network  RNN  motion  Convolution  Soft robotics  Robot sensing systems  Visualization  Recurrent neural networks 
Abstract: Being aware of our body has great importance in our everyday life. It helps us to complete difficult tasks, such as movement in a dark room or grasping a complex object. These skills are important for robots as well, however, robotic bodily awareness is still an open question, and the nonlinearity of soft robots adds even more complexity. In this paper, we address this problem and present a novel method to implement bodily awareness into a real soft robot by the integration of its exteroceptive and proprioceptive sensors. We use an octopus-inspired arm as an example where the proprioceptive representation is approximated by four bend sensors integrated into the soft body, while a camera records the movement of the arm capturing its exteroceptive representation. The internal sensory signals are mapped to the visual information using a combination of a stacked convolutional autoencoder (CAE) and a recurrent neural network (RNN). As a result, the soft robot can learn to estimate and, therefore, to imagine its motion even when its visual sensor is not available.


Title: Fast Nonlinear Approximation of Pose Graph Node Marginalization
Key Words: approximation theory  graph theory  mobile robots  optimisation  path planning  pose estimation  SLAM (robots)  pose graph node marginalization  longterm localization  longterm mapping  longterm navigation  pose graph structure  absolute-to relative-pose spaces  pose-composition approach scaled version  approximate subgraph  fast nonlinear approximation method  Topology  Jacobian matrices  Covariance matrices  Gaussian distribution  Simultaneous localization and mapping  Approximation methods 
Abstract: We present a fast nonlinear approximation method for marginalizing out nodes on pose graphs for longterm simultaneous localization, mapping, and navigation. Our approximation preserves the pose graph structure to leverage the rich literature of pose graphs and optimization schemes. By re-parameterizing from absolute-to relative-pose spaces, our method does not suffer from the choice of linearization points as in previous works. We then join our approximation process with a scaled version of the recently-demoted pose-composition approach. Our approach eschews the expenses of many state-of-the-art convex optimization schemes through our efficient and simple O(N2) implementation for a given known topology of the approximate subgraph. We demonstrate its speed and near optimality in practice by comparing against state-of-the-art techniques on popular datasets.


Title: Visual Saliency-Aware Receding Horizon Autonomous Exploration with Application to Aerial Robotics
Key Words: mobile robots  optimisation  path planning  robot vision  trees (mathematics)  visual saliency-aware receding horizon autonomous exploration  reobserving salient regions  environment exploration rate  robot endurance  random tree  two-step optimization paradigm  salient objects  path planner  visual attention  aerial robotics  Visualization  Robot sensing systems  Planning  Computational modeling  Path planning 
Abstract: This paper presents a novel strategy for autonomous visual saliency-aware receding horizon exploration of unknown environments using aerial robots. Through a model of visual attention, incrementally built maps are annotated regarding the visual importance and saliency of different objects and entities in the environment. Provided this information, a path planner that simultaneously optimizes for exploration of unknown space, and also directs the robot's attention to focus on the most salient objects, is developed. Following a two-step optimization paradigm, the algorithm first samples a random tree and identifies the branch maximizing for new volume to be explored. The first viewpoint of this path is then provided as a reference to the second planning step. Within that, a new tree is spanned, admissible branches arriving at the reference viewpoint while respecting a time budget dependent on the robot endurance and its environment exploration rate are found and evaluated in terms of reobserving salient regions at sufficient resolution. The best branch is then selected and executed by the robot, and the whole process is iteratively repeated. The proposed method is evaluated regarding its ability to provide increased attention toward salient objects, is verified to run onboard a small aerial robot, and is demonstrated in a set of challenging experimental studies.


Title: Perception-aware Receding Horizon Navigation for MAVs
Key Words: aircraft control  collision avoidance  mobile robots  navigation  path planning  robot vision  state estimation  perception-aware receding horizon navigation  microaerial vehicle  state estimation uncertainty  perception-aware receding horizon approach  monocular state estimation  candidate trajectories  perception quality  collision probability  receding horizon navigation framework  improved state estimation accuracy  goal-reaching task  purely-reactive navigation system  MAV  Trajectory  State estimation  Planning  Navigation  Cameras  Measurement  Task analysis 
Abstract: To reach a given destination safely and accurately, a micro aerial vehicle needs to be able to avoid obstacles and minimize its state estimation uncertainty at the same time. To achieve this goal, we propose a perception-aware receding horizon approach. In our method, a single forward-looking camera is used for state estimation and mapping. Using the information from the monocular state estimation and mapping system, we generate a library of candidate trajectories and evaluate them in terms of perception quality, collision probability, and distance to the goal. The best trajectory to execute is then selected as the one that maximizes a reward function based on these three metrics. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first work that integrates active vision within a receding horizon navigation framework for a goal reaching task. We demonstrate by simulation and real-world experiments on an actual quadrotor that our active approach leads to improved state estimation accuracy in a goal-reaching task when compared to a purely-reactive navigation system, especially in difficult scenes (e.g., weak texture).


Title: Viewpoint-Tolerant Place Recognition Combining 2D and 3D Information for UAV Navigation
Key Words: autonomous aerial vehicles  distance measurement  geometry  mobile robots  path planning  robot vision  stereo image processing  3D information  UAV navigation  Unmanned Aerial Vehicles  vision-based odometry  loop-closure detection  place recognition framework  local 3D geometry  viewpoint-tolerant place recognition  2D Information  hand-held datasets  perceptual aliasing  binary features  Simultaneous localization and mapping  Three-dimensional displays  Visualization  Vocabulary  Image recognition  Navigation 
Abstract: The booming interest in Unmanned Aerial Vehicles (UAV s) is fed by their potentially great impact, however progress is hindered by their limited perception capabilities. While vision-based odometry was shown to run successfully onboard UAV s, loop-closure detection to correct for drift or to recover from tracking failures, has so far, proven particularly challenging for UAVs. At the heart of this is the problem of viewpoint-tolerant place recognition; in stark difference to ground robots, UAVs can revisit a scene from very different viewpoints. As a result, existing approaches struggle greatly as the task at hand violates underlying assumptions in assessing scene similarity. In this paper, we propose a place recognition framework, which exploits both efficient binary features and noisy estimates of the local 3D geometry, which are anyway computed for visual-inertial odometry onboard the UAV. Attaching both an appearance and a geometry signature to each `location', the proposed approach demonstrates unprecedented recall for perfect precision as well as high quality loop-closing transformations on both flying and hand-held datasets exhibiting large viewpoint and appearance changes as well as perceptual aliasing.


Title: High-Level MLN-Based Approach for Spatial Context Disambiguation
Key Words: control engineering computing  inference mechanisms  learning (artificial intelligence)  Markov processes  mobile robots  probability  robot dynamics  sensor fusion  spatial context disambiguation  probabilistic MLN-based model  incomplete knowledge  High-level task planning  semantic spatial relations  robot dynamic  High-level MLN  MLN probabilistic reasoning  Robot sensing systems  Context modeling  Semantics  Probabilistic logic  Object recognition 
Abstract: In this paper, we propose a probabilistic MLN-based model for spatial context disambiguation. This model serves as a solution for the problem of incomplete knowledge in High-level task planning. By applying the state of the art MLN probabilistic reasoning such as MCSAT, we determine the concept class of the current spatial context of the robot and contribute by combining semantic spatial relations with observed data at different timesteps. The inherent uncertainty of robot dynamic environments makes the proposed approach suitable to deal with partial observability and sensing limitations of robots. Simulation experiments and evaluation results are presented to validate our model.


Title: Task-Specific Sensor Planning for Robotic Assembly Tasks
Key Words: feedback  multi-robot systems  open loop systems  path planning  robotic assembly  sensors  task-specific sensor planning  robotic assembly tasks  sensory feedback  task planning  open-loop simulation  task-specific uncertainty approximants  multirobot planner  multirobot tasks  Robot sensing systems  Task analysis  Uncertainty  Planning  Robotic assembly  Estimation 
Abstract: When performing multi-robot tasks, sensory feedback is crucial in reducing uncertainty for correct execution. Yet the utilization of sensors should be planned as an integral part of the task planning, taken into account several factors such as the tolerance of different inferred properties of the scene and interaction with different agents. In this paper we handle this complex problem in a principled, yet efficient way. We use surrogate predictors based on open-loop simulation to estimate and bound the probability of success for specific tasks. We reason about such task-specific uncertainty approximants and their effectiveness. We show how they can be incorporated into a multi-robot planner, and demonstrate results with a team of robots performing assembly tasks.


Title: A Novel Recurrent Neural Network for Improving Redundant Manipulator Motion Planning Completeness
Key Words: collision avoidance  neurocontrollers  recurrent neural nets  redundant manipulators  Recurrent Neural Networks  manipulator control optimization  obstacle avoidance  RNN control  redundant manipulator motion planning  Planning  Manipulators  Task analysis  Recurrent neural networks  Collision avoidance  Robustness  Aerospace electronics  Motion Planning  Kinematic Control  Recurrent Neural Networks  Redundant Manipulator  Robot 
Abstract: Recurrent Neural Networks (RNNs) demonstrated advantages on control precision, system robustness and computational efficiency, and have been widely applied to redundant manipulator control optimization. Existing RNN control schemes locally optimize trajectories and are efficient and reliable on obstacle avoidance. However, for motion planning, they suffer from local minimum and do not have planning completeness. This work explained the cause of the planning incompleteness and addressed the problem with a novel RNN control scheme. The paper presented the proposed method in detail and analyzed the global stability and the planning completeness in theory. The proposed method was compared with other three control schemes on the precision, the robustness and the planning completeness in software simulation and the results shows the proposed method has improved precision and robustness, and planning completeness.


Title: Robust Collision Avoidance via Sliding Control
Key Words: adaptive control  collision avoidance  mobile robots  navigation  nonlinear control systems  parameter estimation  robust control  trajectory control  uncertain systems  variable structure systems  robust collision avoidance  planning algorithms  robots  unknown environments  cluttered environments  model uncertainty  external disturbances  nonlinear control theory  CASC  safe trajectory  parameter estimation  composite adaptive sliding controller  quadrotor navigation  Trajectory  Electron tubes  Uncertainty  Robustness  Optimization  Adaptation models 
Abstract: Recent advances in perception and planning algorithms have enabled robots to navigate autonomously through unknown, cluttered environments at high-speeds. A key component of these systems is the ability to identify, select, and execute a safe trajectory around obstacles. Many of these systems, however, lack performance guarantees because model uncertainty and external disturbances are ignored when a trajectory is selected for execution. This work leverages results from nonlinear control theory to establish a bound on tracking performance that can be used to select a provably safe trajectory. The Composite Adaptive Sliding Controller (CASC) provides robustness to disturbances and reduces model uncertainty through high-rate parameter estimation. CASC is demonstrated in simulation and hardware to significantly improve the performance of a quadrotor navigating through unknown environments with external disturbances and unknown model parameters.


Title: Using a Memory of Motion to Efficiently Warm-Start a Nonlinear Predictive Controller
Key Words: autonomous aerial vehicles  iterative methods  learning (artificial intelligence)  nonlinear control systems  optimal control  optimisation  path planning  predictive control  sampling methods  trajectory optimisation (aerospace)  direct optimal control  control policy  optimal state-control trajectories  nonlinear predictive controller  nonlinear optimization problem  model-based methodology  control cycle  kinodynamic probabilistic roadmap  nonlinear solver  unmanned aerial vehicle  UAV  complex dynamical systems  sampling-based planning  policy learning  Computational modeling  Approximation algorithms  Optimal control  Planning  Robots  Trajectory optimization 
Abstract: Predictive control is an efficient model-based methodology to control complex dynamical systems. In general, it boils down to the resolution at each control cycle of a large nonlinear optimization problem. A critical issue is then to provide a good guess to initialize the nonlinear solver so as to speed up convergence. This is particularly important when disturbances or changes in the environment prevent the use of the trajectory computed at the previous control cycle as initial guess. In this paper, we introduce an original and very efficient solution to automatically build this initial guess. We propose to rely on off-line computation to build an approximation of the optimal trajectories, that can be used on-line to initialize the predictive controller. To that end, we combined the use of sampling-based planning, policy learning with generic representations (such as neural networks), and direct optimal control. We first propose an algorithm to simultaneously build a kinodynamic probabilistic roadmap (PRM) and approximate value function and control policy. This algorithm quickly converges toward an approximation of the optimal state-control trajectories (along with an optimal PRM). Then, we propose two methods to store the optimal trajectories and use them to initialize the predictive controller. We experimentally show that directly storing the state-control trajectories leads the predictive controller to quickly converges (2 to 5 iterations) toward the (global) optimal solution. The results are validated in simulation with an unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV) and other dynamical systems.


Title: Time-Optimal Path Tracking via Reachability Analysis
Key Words: control system analysis  mobile robots  path planning  perturbation techniques  reachability analysis  time optimal control  torque control  trajectory control  geometric path  control strategy  tracking controller  path parameterization problems  reachability analysis  time-optimal path tracking problem  tracking error regulation  reference trajectory  tracking performance degradation  path controller parameterization  joint torques  torque bounds  perturbations  Trajectory  Torque  Robustness  Perturbation methods  Acceleration  Manipulator dynamics 
Abstract: Given a geometric path, the Time-Optimal Path Tracking problem consists in finding the control strategy to traverse the path time-optimally while regulating tracking errors. A simple yet effective approach to this problem is to decompose the controller into two components: (i) a path controller, which modulates the parameterization of the desired path in an online manner, yielding a reference trajectory; and (ii) a tracking controller, which takes the reference trajectory and outputs joint torques for tracking. However, there is one major difficulty: the path controller might not find any feasible reference trajectory that can be tracked by the tracking controller because of torque bounds. In turn, this results in degraded tracking performances. Here, we propose a new path controller that is guaranteed to find feasible reference trajectories by accounting for possible future perturbations. The main technical tool underlying the proposed controller is Reachability Analysis, a new method for analyzing path parameterization problems. Simulations show that the proposed controller outperforms existing methods.


Title: Charging Station Placement for Indoor Robotic Applications
Key Words: computability  mobile robots  path planning  indoor robotic application  battery  satisfiability modulo theory  charging station placement problem  autonomous mobile robot  Charging stations  Trajectory  Batteries  Planning  Mobile robots  Task analysis 
Abstract: For an autonomous mobile robot, when the available power goes below a certain threshold, the robot needs to abort its current task and move towards a charging station to recharge its battery. The efficiency of an autonomous mobile robot depends significantly on the location of the charging stations. In this paper, we address the charging station placement problem for mobile robots in a controlled workspace. We propose two algorithms to place a number of charging stations so that a robot is always capable of reaching one of the charging stations from any obstacle-free location in the workspace without aborting its task too early. We reduce the charging-station placement problem to a series of Satisfiability Modulo Theory (SMT) problems and use the off-the-shelf SMT solver Z3 to implement our algorithm. The algorithm produces as output the locations of the charging stations in the workspace and the trajectories from any obstacle-free locations to one of the charging stations. Our experimental results show how our algorithm can efficiently find the locations of the charging stations and robot trajectories to reach the charging stations. We demonstrate through simulation how the generated trajectories can be effectively used by a robot to reach a charging stations autonomously without getting depleted with power.


Title: Annotating Traversable Gaps in Walkable Environments
Key Words: computational geometry  mesh generation  mobile robots  navigation  path planning  solid modelling  virtual reality  navigation mesh generation  walkable areas  3D virtual environment  walkable environment  annotating traversable gaps  Navigation  Three-dimensional displays  Maintenance engineering  Image edge detection  Geometry  Surface morphology  Path planning 
Abstract: Autonomous agents typically need a navigation mesh of a 3D virtual environment to allow efficient path planning. This mesh needs as input a continuous representation of the walkable areas. However, the walkable environment (WE), i.e. the parts of the 3D environment that an agent can walk on, may contain gaps. These may be due to the filtering steps performed to compute the WE, because of modelling errors in the 3D model, or simply be part of the geometry of the environment. We provide an algorithm that identifies and fills these gaps. We detect gaps, up to a given distance, between pairs of boundary edges of the walkable environment, and fill them with polygons. We employ a heuristic for choosing which pairs of edges should be connected. We compare our algorithm to Recast [10], a voxel-based method for navigation mesh generation. We find that our method gives more accurate results in many environments: it retains the exact representation of the walkable environment, semantically separates the gaps from the walkable areas, and requires no tweaking of parameters to obtain good results. However, our method is currently slower than Recast, and requires more memory.


Title: Topological Nearest-Neighbor Filtering for Sampling-Based Planners
Key Words: filtering theory  mobile robots  nearest neighbour methods  path planning  sampling methods  trees (mathematics)  topological nearest-neighbor filtering  computational techniques  locality-sensitive hashing  workspace connectivity  nearest-neighbor time  nearest-neighbor algorithm  candidate neighbor configurations  topologically relevant set  sampling-based motion planning algorithms  Nearest-neighbor finding  sampling-based planners 
Abstract: Nearest-neighbor finding is a major bottleneck for sampling-based motion planning algorithms. The cost of finding nearest neighbors grows with the size of the roadmap, leading to significant slowdowns for problems which require many configurations to find a solution. Prior work has investigated relieving this pressure with quicker computational techniques, such as kd-trees or locality-sensitive hashing. In this work, we investigate an alternative direction for expediting this process based on workspace connectivity. We present an algorithm called Topological Nearest-Neighbor Filtering, which employs a workspace decomposition to select a topologically relevant set of candidate neighbor configurations as a pre-processing step for a nearest-neighbor algorithm. We investigate the application of this filter to several varieties of RRT and demonstrate that the filter improves both nearest-neighbor time and overall planning performance.


Title: Integration of Local Geometry and Metric Information in Sampling-Based Motion Planning
Key Words: geometry  linear quadratic control  linear systems  linearisation techniques  matrix algebra  mobile robots  path planning  robot dynamics  robot kinematics  sampling methods  sampling-based motion planning algorithms  steering procedure  configuration space geometry  sample configurations  local system dynamics  convex subsets  free space  local behavior  LQR cost-to-go function  system linearization  linear-Gaussian system  second-order linear system  Gram matrix  Mahalanobis distance  kinematic unicycle  local geometry  metric information  Measurement  Heuristic algorithms  Trajectory  Geometry  Robots  System dynamics  Planning 
Abstract: The efficiency of sampling-based motion planning algorithms is dependent on how well a steering procedure is capable of capturing both system dynamics and configuration space geometry to connect sample configurations. This paper considers how metrics describing local system dynamics may be combined with convex subsets of the free space to describe the local behavior of a steering function for sampling-based planners. Subsequently, a framework for using these subsets to extend the steering procedure to incorporate this information is introduced. To demonstrate our framework, three specific metrics are considered: the LQR cost-to-go function, a Gram matrix derived from system linearization, and the Mahalanobis distance of a linear-Gaussian system. Finally, numerical tests are conducted for a second-order linear system, a kinematic unicycle, and a linear-Gaussian system to demonstrate that our framework increases the connectivity of sampling-based planners and allows them to better explore the free space.


Title: Affordance-Based Multi-Contact Whole-Body Pose Sequence Planning for Humanoid Robots in Unknown Environments
Key Words: end effectors  humanoid robots  manipulators  mobile robots  motion control  stability  end-effectors  multicontact contact pose sequence planning  humanoid robot ARMAR-4  loco-manipulation tasks  contacts  loco-manipulation affordances  vision-based detection  whole-body multicontact tasks  motion planning  multicontact pose sequences  goal-directed planning  end-effector contact opportunities  autonomous detection  whole-body loco-manipulation actions  autonomous planning  humanoid robotics  humanoid robots  whole-body pose sequence planning  affordance-based multicontact  Planning  Humanoid robots  Task analysis  Motion segmentation  Robot sensing systems  Complexity theory 
Abstract: Despite impressive advances of humanoid robotics, the autonomous planning of whole-body loco-manipulation actions in unknown environments is still an open problem. In our previous work, we addressed two fundamental aspects related to this problem: 1) the autonomous detection of end-effector contact opportunities in unknown environments and 2) the goal-directed planning of multi-contact pose sequences, which can serve as the starting point for motion planning and control approaches of reduced complexity. Both problems suffer from the extensive amounts of possible solutions, particularly due to the complexity of humanoid robots and the multitude of available contact opportunities. In this paper, we propose a method for the planning of whole-body multi-contact tasks based on our previous work on vision-based detection of loco-manipulation affordances and whole-body multi-contact pose sequence planning. We demonstrate a combined approach for planning multi-contact pose sequences with a focus on the utilization of available end-effectors for stabilizing contacts with the environment during loco-manipulation tasks. The method is evaluated in simulation in multiple exemplary scenarios based on actual sensor data and the humanoid robot ARMAR-4.


Title: Simultaneous Planning and Estimation Based on Physics Reasoning in Robot Manipulation
Key Words: manipulators  multi-robot systems  path planning  physics reasoning  robot manipulation  manipulation planning  human-robot cooperation  multi-robot cooperation  Planning  Cognition  Estimation  Force  Robot sensing systems 
Abstract: For robots to autonomously achieve manipulation tasks in various scenes, advanced operational skills such as tool use, learning from demonstration, and multi-robot/human-robot cooperation are necessary. In this research, we devise a method for robots to realize such operational skills in a unified manner by evaluating physical consistency (referred to as “physics reasoning”) based on the formulation of the manipulation statics constraints. First, we propose manipulation planning and estimation methods in which the operational feasibility and properties' likelihood are derived by physics reasoning. In addition, we propose a framework to manipulate an object with unknown physical properties by executing planning and estimation both sequentially and in parallel. We demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed methods by performing experiments in which real humanoid robots achieve various manipulation tasks with advanced operational skills.


Title: Joining High-Level Symbolic Planning with Low-Level Motion Primitives in Adaptive HRI: Application to Dressing Assistance
Key Words: control engineering computing  footwear  human-robot interaction  learning (artificial intelligence)  mobile robots  planning (artificial intelligence)  robot programming  service robots  daily living assistance  robot motion encoding  programming  shoe-dressing scenario  robot verbosity  robot speed  safe living assistance  dressing assistance  adaptive HRI  low-level motion primitives  high-level symbolic planning  user preferences  human-robot interaction  Task analysis  Planning  Robot sensing systems  Footwear  Foot  Computational modeling 
Abstract: For a safe and successful daily living assistance, far from the highly controlled environment of a factory, robots should be able to adapt to ever-changing situations. Programming such a robot is a tedious process that requires expert knowledge. An alternative is to rely on a high-level planner, but the generic symbolic representations used are not well suited to particular robot executions. Contrarily, motion primitives encode robot motions in a way that can be easily adapted to different situations. This paper presents a combined framework that exploits the advantages of both approaches. The number of required symbolic states is reduced, as motion primitives provide “smart actions” that take the current state and cope online with variations. Symbolic actions can include interactions (e.g., ask and inform) that are difficult to demonstrate. We show that the proposed framework can adapt to the user preferences (in terms of robot speed and robot verbosity), can readjust the trajectories based on the user movements, and can handle unforeseen situations. Experiments are performed in a shoe-dressing scenario. This scenario is particularly interesting because it involves a sufficient number of actions, and the human-robot interaction requires the handling of user preferences and unexpected reactions.


Title: Fast Object Learning and Dual-arm Coordination for Cluttered Stowing, Picking, and Packing
Key Words: grippers  humanoid robots  human-robot interaction  industrial manipulators  learning (artificial intelligence)  mobile robots  multi-robot systems  object detection  path planning  robot vision  service robots  robotic picking  cluttered bins  2017 Amazon Robotics Challenge  ARC  storage system  deep object perception pipeline  custom turntable capture system  transfer learning  robot arms  NimbRo Picking  stow-and-pick task  Task analysis  Training  Robot kinematics  Pipelines  Robot sensing systems  Semantics 
Abstract: Robotic picking from cluttered bins is a demanding task, for which Amazon Robotics holds challenges. The 2017 Amazon Robotics Challenge (ARC) required stowing items into a storage system, picking specific items, and packing them into boxes. In this paper, we describe the entry of team NimbRo Picking. Our deep object perception pipeline can be quickly and efficiently adapted to new items using a custom turntable capture system and transfer learning. It produces high-quality item segments, on which grasp poses are found. A planning component coordinates manipulation actions between two robot arms, minimizing execution time. The system has been demonstrated successfully at ARC, where our team reached second places in both the picking task and the final stow-and-pick task. We also evaluate individual components.


Title: Modeling Driver Behavior from Demonstrations in Dynamic Environments Using Spatiotemporal Lattices
Key Words: collision avoidance  driver information systems  learning (artificial intelligence)  mobile robots  road vehicles  spatiotemporal lattices  path planners  intelligent vehicles  cost function  model parameters  demonstrated driving data  Inverse Reinforcement  IRL methods  forward control problem  traditional path-planning techniques  conformal spatiotemporal state lattice  dynamic obstacles  model assessment  IRL framework  highly dynamic environments  highway tactical driving task  instrumented vehicle  driver behavior modeling  Trajectory  Lattices  Task analysis  Spatiotemporal phenomena  Vehicle dynamics  Learning (artificial intelligence)  Cost function 
Abstract: One of the most challenging tasks in the development of path planners for intelligent vehicles is the design of the cost function that models the desired behavior of the vehicle. While this task has been traditionally accomplished by hand-tuning the model parameters, recent approaches propose to learn the model automatically from demonstrated driving data using Inverse Reinforcement Learning (IRL). To determine if the model has correctly captured the demonstrated behavior, most IRL methods require obtaining a policy by solving the forward control problem repetitively. Calculating the full policy is a costly task in continuous or large domains and thus often approximated by finding a single trajectory using traditional path-planning techniques. In this work, we propose to find such a trajectory using a conformal spatiotemporal state lattice, which offers two main advantages. First, by conforming the lattice to the environment, the search is focused only on feasible motions for the robot, saving computational power. And second, by considering time as part of the state, the trajectory is optimized with respect to the motion of the dynamic obstacles in the scene. As a consequence, the resulting trajectory can be used for the model assessment. We show how the proposed IRL framework can successfully handle highly dynamic environments by modeling the highway tactical driving task from demonstrated driving data gathered with an instrumented vehicle.


Title: Multimodal Probabilistic Model-Based Planning for Human-Robot Interaction
Key Words: decision making  human-robot interaction  intelligent transportation systems  learning (artificial intelligence)  probability  highway on-ramp-off-ramps  human-robot interaction policies  multimodal probabilistic model-based planning  traffic weaving scenario  human-in-the-loop simulation  candidate future robot actions  interaction history  action distributions  direct learning  candidate robot action sequences  human responses  massively parallel sampling  real-time robot policy construction  human-human exemplars  future human actions  multimodal probability distributions  inherent multimodal uncertainty  experienced drivers  entering exiting cars  decision making  Robots  Vehicles  Predictive models  History  Cognition  Probabilistic logic  Weaving 
Abstract: This paper presents a method for constructing human-robot interaction policies in settings where multimodality, i.e., the possibility of multiple highly distinct futures, plays a critical role in decision making. We are motivated in this work by the example of traffic weaving, e.g., at highway on-ramps/off-ramps, where entering and exiting cars must swap lanes in a short distance-a challenging negotiation even for experienced drivers due to the inherent multimodal uncertainty of who will pass whom. Our approach is to learn multimodal probability distributions over future human actions from a dataset of human-human exemplars and perform real-time robot policy construction in the resulting environment model through massively parallel sampling of human responses to candidate robot action sequences. Direct learning of these distributions is made possible by recent advances in the theory of conditional variational autoencoders (CVAEs), whereby we learn action distributions simultaneously conditioned on the present interaction history, as well as candidate future robot actions in order to take into account response dynamics. We demonstrate the efficacy of this approach with a human-in-the-loop simulation of a traffic weaving scenario.


Title: Visual Grasping for a Lightweight Aerial Manipulator Based on NSGA-II and Kinematic Compensation
Key Words: autonomous aerial vehicles  calibration  collision avoidance  compensation  genetic algorithms  manipulator dynamics  manipulator kinematics  visual grasping  lightweight aerial manipulator  complex kinematics/dynamics  motion constraints  X8 coaxial octocopter  4-DoF manipulator  grasping control problem  NSGA-II method  trajectory planning  kinematic compensation-based visual trajectory tracking  trajectory generation  dynamic parameter calibration  Manipulator dynamics  Trajectory  Grasping  Kinematics  Acceleration  Visualization 
Abstract: The grasping control of an aerial manipulator in practical environments is challenging due to its complex kinematics/dynamics and motion constraints. This paper introduces a lightweight aerial manipulator, which is combined with an X8 coaxial octocopter and a 4-DoF manipulator. To address the grasping control problem, we develop an efficient scheme containing trajectory generation, visual trajectory tracking, and kinematic compensation. The NSGA-II method is utilized to implement the multiobjective optimization for trajectory planning. Motion constraints and collision avoidance are also considered in the optimization. A kinematic compensation-based visual trajectory tracking is introduced to address the coupled nature between manipulator and VAV body. No dynamic parameter calibration is needed. Finally, several experiments are performed to verify the stability and feasibility of the proposed approach.


Title: Learning Robotic Assembly from CAD
Key Words: CAD  industrial manipulators  learning (artificial intelligence)  mobile robots  path planning  production engineering computing  robotic assembly  suboptimal control  autonomous robotic assembly  industrial assembly tasks  contact-rich manipulation skills  motion planning approaches  robot controllers  reinforcement learning  robot skills  contact-rich dynamics  control policy  robot executions  locally suboptimal solutions  RL performance  CAD design files  geometric motion plan  CAD data  assembly controller  manufacturing trends  Task analysis  Planning  Robots  Trajectory  Tracking  Robotic assembly  Dynamics 
Abstract: In this work, motivated by recent manufacturing trends, we investigate autonomous robotic assembly. Industrial assembly tasks require contact-rich manipulation skills, which are challenging to acquire using classical control and motion planning approaches. Consequently, robot controllers for assembly domains are presently engineered to solve a particular task, and cannot easily handle variations in the product or environment. Reinforcement learning (RL) is a promising approach for autonomously acquiring robot skills that involve contact-rich dynamics. However, RL relies on random exploration for learning a control policy, which requires many robot executions, and often gets trapped in locally suboptimal solutions. Instead, we posit that prior knowledge, when available, can improve RL performance. We exploit the fact that in modern assembly domains, geometric information about the task is readily available via the CAD design files. We propose to leverage this prior knowledge by guiding RL along a geometric motion plan, calculated using the CAD data. We show that our approach effectively improves over traditional control approaches for tracking the motion plan, and can solve assembly tasks that require high precision, even without accurate state estimation. In addition, we propose a neural network architecture that can learn to track the motion plan, thereby generalizing the assembly controller to changes in the object positions.


Title: A General and Flexible Search Framework for Disassembly Planning
Key Words: assembly planning  design for disassembly  iterative methods  search problems  iterative motion planning  collision information  subassembly identification  preemptive scheme  exhaustive scheme  search strategies  hierarchical approach  disassembly sequence planning  parallelism  part separation techniques  Planning  Trajectory  Measurement  Data structures  Search problems  Learning systems  Containers 
Abstract: We present a new general framework for disassembly sequence planning. This framework is versatile allowing different types of search schemes (exhaustive vs. preemptive), various part separation techniques, and the ability to group parts, or not, into subassemblies to improve the solution efficiency and parallelism. This enables a truly hierarchical approach to disassembly sequence planning. We demonstrate two different search strategies using this framework that can either yield a single solution quickly or provide a spectrum of solutions from which an optimal may be selected. We also develop a method for subassembly identification based on collision information. Our results show improved performance over an iterative motion planning based method for finding a single solution and greater functionality through hierarchical planning and optimal solution search.


Title: Don't Look Back: Robustifying Place Categorization for Viewpoint- and Condition-Invariant Place Recognition
Key Words: cameras  feature extraction  image matching  image representation  image sequences  mobile robots  neural nets  object recognition  path planning  robot vision  SLAM (robots)  semantics-aware higher-order layers  deep neural networks  pure appearance-based techniques  place categorization  place-centric characteristics  condition-invariant place recognition  rear view mirror  semantic visual understanding  visual places  Semantics  Visualization  Robustness  Databases  Image recognition  Cameras  Neural networks 
Abstract: When a human drives a car along a road for the first time, they later recognize where they are on the return journey typically without needing to look in their rear view mirror or turn around to look back, despite significant viewpoint and appearance change. Such navigation capabilities are typically attributed to our semantic visual understanding of the environment [1] beyond geometry to recognizing the types of places we are passing through such as “passing a shop on the left” or “moving through a forested area”. Humans are in effect using place categorization [2] to perform specific place recognition even when the viewpoint is 180 degrees reversed. Recent advances in deep neural networks have enabled high performance semantic understanding of visual places and scenes, opening up the possibility of emulating what humans do. In this work, we develop a novel methodology for using the semantics-aware higher-order layers of deep neural networks for recognizing specific places from within a reference database. To further improve the robustness to appearance change, we develop a descriptor normalization scheme that builds on the success of normalization schemes for pure appearance-based techniques such as SeqSLAM [3]. Using two different datasets - one road-based, one pedestrian-based, we evaluate the performance of the system in performing place recognition on reverse traversals of a route with a limited field of view camera and no turn-back-and-Iook behaviours, and compare to existing state-of-the-art techniques and vanilla off-the-shelf features. The results demonstrate significant improvements over the existing state of the art, especially for extreme perceptual challenges that involve both great viewpoint change and environmental appearance change. We also provide experimental analyses of the contributions of the various system components: the use of spatio-temporal sequences, place categorization and place-centric characteristics as opposed to object-centric semantics.


Title: Delight: An Efficient Descriptor for Global Localisation Using LiDAR Intensities
Key Words: mobile robots  navigation  optical information processing  optical radar  path planning  robot vision  intensity information  DELIGHT  distributed histograms  chi-squared tests  two-stage solution  geometry-based verification  range information  GPS-denied areas  robot position  kidnapped robot problems  mobile robotics  place recognition  global localisation  intensity-based prior estimation  LiDAR intensities  Laser radar  Histograms  Three-dimensional displays  Simultaneous localization and mapping 
Abstract: Place recognition is a key element of mobile robotics. It can assist with the “wake-up” and “kidnapped robot” problems, where the robot position needs to be estimated without prior information. Among the different sensors that can be used for the task (e.g., camera, GPS, LiDAR), LiDAR has the advantage of operating in the dark and in GPS-denied areas. We propose a new method that uses solely the LiDAR data and that can be performed without robot motion. In contrast to other methods, our system leverages intensity information (as opposed to only range information) which is encoded into a novel descriptor of LiDAR intensities as a group of histograms, named DELIGHT. The descriptor encodes the distributed histograms of intensity of the surroundings which are compared using chi-squared tests. Our pipeline is a two-stage solution consisting of an intensity-based prior estimation and a geometry-based verification. For a map of 220k square meters, the method achieves localisation in around 3s with a success rate of 97%, illustrating the applicability of the method in real environments.


Title: Towards Globally Consistent Visual-Inertial Collaborative SLAM
Key Words: autonomous aerial vehicles  mobile robots  path planning  robot vision  SLAM (robots)  globally consistent tracking  autonomous robot navigation  monocular-inertial odometry  vision-based perception  metric scale estimation  benchmarking datasets  UAVs  monocular-inertial sensor suite  unmanned aerial vehicles  visual-inertial collaborative SLAM  drift correction  Simultaneous localization and mapping  Collaboration  Unmanned aerial vehicles  Optimization  Measurement  Trajectory 
Abstract: Motivated by the need for globally consistent tracking and mapping before autonomous robot navigation becomes realistically feasible, this paper presents a novel backend to monocular-inertial odometry. As some of the most challenging platforms for vision-based perception, we evaluate the performance of our system using Unmanned Aerial Vehicles (UAV s). Our experimental validation demonstrates that the proposed approach achieves drift correction and metric scale estimation from a single UAV on benchmarking datasets. Furthermore, the generality of our approach is demonstrated to achieve globally consistent maps built in a collaborative manner from two UAVs, each equipped with a monocular-inertial sensor suite, showing the possible gains opened by collaboration amongst robots to perform SLAM. Video - https://youtu.be/wbX36HBu2Eg.


Title: Incorporating Potential Contingency Tasks in Multi-Robot Mission Planning
Key Words: mobile robots  multi-robot systems  path planning  probability  potential contingency task  multirobot mission planning  expected mission completion time  probability  Task analysis  Robot kinematics  Uncertainty  Schedules  Marine vehicles  Resource management 
Abstract: In most complex missions, unexpected situations arise that may interfere with the planned execution of mission tasks. These situations result in the generation of contingency tasks that need to be executed before the originally planned tasks are completed. Potential contingency tasks may not always affect mission tasks due to the inherent uncertainty in the environment. Deferring action on a potential contingency task may incur a penalty in terms of wasted time due to idle robots if the contingency task becomes a bottleneck in the future. On the other hand, immediate action on a potential contingency task may incur a penalty in terms of wasted time if the contingency task did not actually impact the mission. When a contingency task is reported, the planner generates an updated plan that minimizes expected mission completion time by taking into account the probability of the contingency task impacting mission tasks, its effect on the mission, and its spatial location. We have characterized the performance of the algorithm through simulation experiments. We show that the proactive approach to contingency task management outperforms a conservative approach.


Title: Translating Videos to Commands for Robotic Manipulation with Deep Recurrent Neural Networks
Key Words: control engineering computing  convolution  feature extraction  feedforward neural nets  humanoid robots  mobile robots  recurrent neural nets  video signal processing  feature extraction  video translation  CNN  RNN  full-size humanoid robot WALK-MAN  manipulation tasks  translation module  visual features  encoder-decoder architecture  RNN layers  deep Convolutional Neural Networks  input video frames  deep features  command  Deep Recurrent Neural Networks  robotic manipulation  Videos  Robots  Feature extraction  Task analysis  Visualization  Recurrent neural networks  Logic gates 
Abstract: We present a new method to translate videos to commands for robotic manipulation using Deep Recurrent Neural Networks (RNN). Our framework first extracts deep features from the input video frames with a deep Convolutional Neural Networks (CNN). Two RNN layers with an encoder-decoder architecture are then used to encode the visual features and sequentially generate the output words as the command. We demonstrate that the translation accuracy can be improved by allowing a smooth transaction between two RNN layers and using the state-of-the-art feature extractor. The experimental results on our new challenging dataset show that our approach outperforms recent methods by a fair margin. Furthermore, we combine the proposed translation module with the vision and planning system to let a robot perform various manipulation tasks. Finally, we demonstrate the effectiveness of our framework on a full-size humanoid robot WALK-MAN.


Title: Topomap: Topological Mapping and Navigation Based on Visual SLAM Maps
Key Words: mobile robots  navigation  path planning  robot vision  SLAM (robots)  three-dimensional topological map  noisy sparse point cloud  convex free-space clusters  global planning  mobile robotic platform  Topomap  visual SLAM  visual robot navigation  navigation task  sparse feature-based map  path planning algorithms  visual simultaneous localization and mapping system  Navigation  Visualization  Simultaneous localization and mapping  Path planning  Three-dimensional displays  Planning 
Abstract: Visual robot navigation within large-scale, semistructured environments deals with various challenges such as computation intensive path planning algorithms or insufficient knowledge about traversable spaces. Moreover, many state-of-the-art navigation approaches only operate locally instead of gaining a more conceptual understanding of the planning objective. This limits the complexity of tasks a robot can accomplish and makes it harder to deal with uncertainties that are present in the context of real-time robotics applications. In this work, we present Topomap, a framework which simplifies the navigation task by providing a map to the robot which is tailored for path planning use. This novel approach transforms a sparse feature-based map from a visual Simultaneous Localization And Mapping (SLAM) system into a three-dimensional topological map. This is done in two steps. First, we extract occupancy information directly from the noisy sparse point cloud. Then, we create a set of convex free-space clusters, which are the vertices of the topological map. We show that this representation improves the efficiency of global planning, and we provide a complete derivation of our algorithm. Planning experiments on real world datasets demonstrate that we achieve similar performance as RRT* with significantly lower computation times and storage requirements. Finally, we test our algorithm on a mobile robotic platform to prove its advantages.


Title: Talk Resource-Efficiently to Me: Optimal Communication Planning for Distributed Loop Closure Detection
Key Words: mobile robots  multi-robot systems  robot vision  SLAM (robots)  cooperative simultaneous localization and mapping  inter-robot loop closures  general resource-efficiency communication planning  sensory data sharing  distributed loop closure detection  optimal communication planning  CSLAM  Robot sensing systems  Distributed databases  Planning  Trajectory  Visualization  Metadata 
Abstract: Due to the distributed nature of cooperative simultaneous localization and mapping (CSLAM), detecting inter-robot loop closures necessitates sharing sensory data with other robots. A naïve approach to data sharing can easily lead to a waste of mission-critical resources. This paper investigates the logistical aspects of CSLAM. Particularly, we present a general resource-efficient communication planning framework that takes into account both the total amount of exchanged data and the induced division of labor between the participating robots. Compared to other state-of-the-art approaches, our framework is able to verify the same set of potential inter-robot loop closures while exchanging considerably less data and influencing the induced workloads. We develop a fast algorithm for finding globally optimal communication policies, and present theoretical analysis to characterize the necessary and sufficient conditions under which simpler strategies are optimal. The proposed framework is extensively evaluated with data from the KITTI odometry benchmark datasets.


Title: Vision Based Collaborative Path Planning for Micro Aerial Vehicles
Key Words: cameras  collision avoidance  covariance matrices  mobile robots  optimisation  path planning  robot vision  trees (mathematics)  microaerial vehicles  collaborative path-planning framework  localization uncertainty  two-step planning framework  visual-fidelity aerial vehicle simulator  Planning  Uncertainty  Cameras  Three-dimensional displays  Collaboration  Optimization  Path planning 
Abstract: In this paper, we present a collaborative path-planning framework for a group of micro aerial vehicles that are capable of localizing through vision. Each of the micro aerial vehicles is assumed to be equipped with a forward facing monocular camera. The vehicles initially use their captured images to build 3D maps through common features; and subsequently track these features to localize through 3D-2D correspondences. The planning algorithm, while connecting start locations to provided goal locations, also aims to reduce the localization uncertainty of the vehicles in the group. To achieve this, we develop a two-step planning framework: the first step attempts to build an improved map of the environment by solving the next-best-view problem for multiple cameras. We express this as a black-box optimization problem and solve it using the Covariance Matrix Adaption evolution strategy (CMA-ES). Once an improved map is available, the second stage of the planning framework performs belief space planning for the vehicles individually using the rapidly exploring random belief tree (RRBT) algorithm. Through the RRBT approach, the planner generates paths that ensure feature visibility while attempting to optimize path cost and reduce localization uncertainty. We validate our approach using experiments conducted in a high visual-fidelity aerial vehicle simulator, Microsoft AirSim.


Title: Semi-Dense Visual-Inertial Odometry and Mapping for Quadrotors with SWAP Constraints
Key Words: helicopters  inertial navigation  mobile robots  path planning  robot vision  state estimation  stereo image processing  semidense visual-inertial odometry  quadrotors  SWAP constraints  autonomous navigation capabilities  dense 3D maps  indoor environments  visual inertial state estimation  microaerial vehicles  size, weight, and power constraints  stereo camera  Cameras  Three-dimensional displays  Visual odometry  Optimization  Navigation  Robot vision systems 
Abstract: Micro Aerial Vehicles have the potential to assist humans in real life tasks involving applications such as smart homes, search and rescue, and architecture construction. To enhance autonomous navigation capabilities these vehicles need to be able to create dense 3D maps of the environment, while concurrently estimating their own motion. In this paper, we are particularly interested in small vehicles that can navigate cluttered indoor environments. We address the problem of visual inertial state estimation, control and 3D mapping on platforms with Size, Weight, And Power (SWAP) constraints. The proposed approach is validated through experimental results on a 250 g, 22 cm diameter quadrotor equipped only with a stereo camera and an IMU with a computationally-limited CPU showing the ability to autonomously navigate, while concurrently creating a 3D map of the environment.


Title: Marker-Based Registration for Large Deformations - Application to Open Liver Surgery
Key Words: augmented reality  computerised tomography  image registration  liver  medical image processing  surgery  tumours  augmented reality system  marker-based method  liver resection surgery  realtime tracking algorithm  nonrigid initial registration method  preoperative model  open surgery  open liver surgery  marker-based registration  Surgery  Strain  Liver  Cameras  Deformable models  Biological system modeling 
Abstract: This paper introduces an Augmented Reality (AR) system for open liver surgery. Although open surgery remains the gold-standard for the treatment of complex tumors and central lesions, technological issues actually prevent using AR with sufficient accuracy for clinical use. We propose a markers-based method allowing for the tracking and the deformation of a preoperative model in real-time during the surgery. Markers are manually placed on the surface of the organ after opening the abdominal cavity, and tracked in real-time by a set of infrared cameras. Our framework is composed of both a nonrigid initial registration method, providing an estimation of the location of the markers in the preoperative model, and a realtime tracking algorithm to deform the model during the surgery (even for large deformation or partial occlusion of the organ). The method is validated on both synthetic and ex-vivo samples; in addition, we demonstrate its applicability in the operating room during a liver resection surgery on a human patient. Preliminary studies provided promising results to improve the location of tumors, and to help surgeons into planning the ideal resection intraoperatively.


Title: Obstacle-Aided Navigation of a Soft Growing Robot
Key Words: collision avoidance  mobile robots  path planning  obstacle-aided navigation  soft growing robot  obstacle avoidance  robot path planning  soft robots  intentional obstacle collisions  soft robot navigation  robot-obstacle interaction  tip-extending soft robot  obstacle interaction model  account obstacle collisions  Collision avoidance  Computational modeling  Kinematics  Pneumatic systems  Soft robotics  Navigation 
Abstract: For many types of robots, avoiding obstacles is necessary to prevent damage to the robot and environment. As a result, obstacle avoidance has historically been an important problem in robot path planning and control. Soft robots represent a paradigm shift with respect to obstacle avoidance because their low mass and compliant bodies can make collisions with obstacles inherently safe. Here we consider the benefits of intentional obstacle collisions for soft robot navigation. We develop and experimentally verify a model of robot-obstacle interaction for a tip-extending soft robot. Building on the obstacle interaction model, we develop an algorithm to determine the path of a growing robot that takes into account obstacle collisions. We find that obstacle collisions can be beneficial for open-loop navigation of growing robots because the obstacles passively steer the robot, both reducing the uncertainty of the location of the robot and directing the robot to targets that do not lie on a straight path from the starting point. Our work shows that for a robot with predictable and safe interactions with obstacles, target locations in a cluttered, mapped environment can be reached reliably by simply setting the initial trajectory. This has implications for the control and design of robots with minimal active steering.


Title: Grasping Objects Big and Small: Human Heuristics Relating Grasp-Type and Object Size
Key Words: biomechanics  dexterous manipulators  motion control  human heuristics  grasp-type  object size  online data collection method  human intuition  survey questions  adopted taxonomy  wrist orientation  common grasps  object height  robot hand size  confidence-interval based polytope  object shape space  potential pre-grasps  grasping objects  fundamental object shapes  Shape  Taxonomy  Robots  Grasping  Planning  Videos  Data collection 
Abstract: This paper presents an online data collection method that captures human intuition about what grasp types are preferred for different fundamental object shapes and sizes. Survey questions are based on an adopted taxonomy that combines grasp pre-shape, approach, wrist orientation, object shape, orientation and size which covers a large swathe of common grasps. For example, the survey identifies at what object height or width dimension (normalized by robot hand size) the human prefers to use a two finger precision grasp versus a three-finger power grasp. This information is represented as a confidence-interval based polytope in the object shape space. The result is a database that can be used to quickly find potential pre-grasps that are likely to work, given an estimate of the object shape and size.


Title: Reinforcement Learning for 4-Finger-Gripper Manipulation
Key Words: grippers  intelligent robots  learning (artificial intelligence)  manipulator dynamics  motion control  path planning  high-level discrete actions  Q-learning  rhythmic Dynamic Movement Primitives  4-finger-gripper manipulator  hierarchical planning  Reinforcement Learning  4-finger-gripper manipulation  hierarchical-planning approach  Robots  Trajectory  Task analysis  Planning  Heuristic algorithms  Learning (artificial intelligence)  Approximation algorithms 
Abstract: In the framework of robotics, Reinforcement Learning (RL) deals with the learning of a task by the robot itself. This paper presents a hierarchical-planning approach in which the robot learns the optimal behavior for different levels in a decoupled way. For high-level discrete actions, Q-learning was chosen, whereas for the low level we utilize Policy Improvement with Path Integrals (PI2) algorithm to learn the parameters of policies, represented by rhythmic Dynamic Movement Primitives (DMPs). The paper studies the case of a 4-finger-gripper manipulator, which performs the task of continuously spinning a ball around a desired axis. The results demonstrate the efficacy of the hierarchical planning and the increased performance of the task when PI2 is used in conjunction with rhythmic DMPs in a real environment.


Title: Clothoid-Based Global Path Planning for Autonomous Vehicles in Urban Scenarios
Key Words: curve fitting  mobile robots  path planning  road traffic  road vehicles  roads  autonomous vehicles  urban scenario  intelligent vehicles  kinematic constraints  continuous-curvature paths  low curvature derivatives  clothoid-based global path planning  road network representation  Roads  Path planning  Geometry  Autonomous vehicles  Wheels  Kinematics  Computational modeling 
Abstract: Intelligent vehicles require an efficient way to compute a feasible path that connects its current localization to a destination point. To achieve that, the knowledge about the road network, including its geometry, is important since connections between roads can be used in the path planning. This work consists on computing a feasible global path for autonomous vehicles with kinematic constraints. Piecewise linear continuous-curvature paths composed of clothoids, circular arcs, and straight lines are used for this purpose. Low curvature derivatives provide comfort to passengers. This approach provides a compact road network representation as only the parameters of the curves are stored. A real urban scenario with straight and curved roads, multiple lanes, intersections, and roundabouts is modeled and the proposed approach is validated. As a result of the proposed approaches, door-to-door global continuous-curvature paths are generated considering the shortest traveled distance.


Title: Surface-Based Exploration for Autonomous 3D Modeling
Key Words: mobile robots  path planning  solid modelling  surface reconstruction  3D models  exploration algorithm  autonomous 3D modeling  path planning problem  exploration path  low-confidence surfaces  reconstructed surfaces  volumetric model  volumetric map  mobile robot  Surface reconstruction  Computational modeling  Three-dimensional displays  Robot sensing systems  Inspection  Mobile robots  Solid modeling 
Abstract: In this study, we addressed a path planning problem of a mobile robot to construct highly accurate 3D models of an unknown environment. Most studies have focused on exploration approaches, which find the most informative viewpoint or trajectories by analyzing a volumetric map. However, the completion of a volumetric map does not necessarily describe the completion of a 3D model. A highly complicated structure sometimes cannot be represented as a volumetric model. We propose a novel exploration algorithm that considers not only a volumetric map but also reconstructed surfaces. Unlike previous approaches, we evaluate the model completeness according to the quality of the reconstructed surfaces and extract low-confidence surfaces. The surface information is used to guide the computation of the exploration path. Experimental results showed that the proposed algorithm performed better than other state-of-the-art exploration methods and especially improved the completeness and confidence of the 3D models.


Title: Departure and Conflict Management in Multi-Robot Path Coordination
Key Words: aircraft control  airports  mobile robots  multi-robot systems  path planning  automatic aircraft taxiing coordination  driver-less cars coordination  no-backward-movement constraint  complex conflict situations  Charles de Gaulle airport  multirobot path coordination  Robot kinematics  Planning  Aircraft  Collision avoidance  Airports  Automobiles 
Abstract: This paper addresses the problem of multi-robot path coordination, considering specific features that arise in applications such as automatic aircraft taxiing or driver-less cars coordination. The first feature is departure events: when robots arrive at their destinations (e.g. the runway for takeoff), they can be removed from the coordination diagram. The second feature is the “no-backward-movement” constraint: the robots can only move forward on their assigned paths. These features can interact to give rise to complex conflict situations, which existing planners are unable to solve in practical time. We propose a set of algorithms to efficiently account for these features and validate these algorithms on a realistic model of Charles de Gaulle airport.


Title: A Single-Planner Approach to Multi-Modal Humanoid Mobility
Key Words: humanoid robots  legged locomotion  path planning  planning (artificial intelligence)  search problems  planning efforts  planning process  single-planner approach  multimodal humanoid mobility  configuration space  humanoid robot  single search process  search spaces  adaptive dimensionality  Planning  Task analysis  Aerospace electronics  Legged locomotion  Superluminescent diodes  Humanoid robots 
Abstract: In this work, we present an approach to planning for humanoid mobility. Humanoid mobility is a challenging problem, as the configuration space for a humanoid robot is intractably large, especially if the robot is capable of performing many types of locomotion. For example, a humanoid robot may be able to perform such tasks as bipedal walking, crawling, and climbing. Our approach is to plan for all these tasks within a single search process. This allows the search to reason about all the capabilities of the robot at any point, and to derive the complete solution such that the plan is guaranteed to be feasible. A key observation is that we often can roughly decompose a mobility task into a sequence of smaller tasks, and focus planning efforts to reason over much smaller search spaces. To this end, we leverage the results of a recently developed framework for planning with adaptive dimensionality, and incorporate the capabilities of available controllers directly into the planning process. The resulting planner can also be run in an interleaved fashion alongside execution so that time spent idle is much reduced.


Title: Information Based Mobile Sensor Planning for Source Term Estimation of a Non-Continuous Atmospheric Release
Key Words: air pollution  atmospheric chemistry  atmospheric techniques  Bayes methods  chemical sensors  disperse systems  hazardous materials  inverse problems  mobile sensor planning  Bayes' theorem  static sensors  single mobile sensor  chemical sensor  dispersion parameters  Gaussian puff dispersion model  meteorological information  inverse problem  hazardous material  noncontinuous atmospheric release  source term estimation  Robot sensing systems  Dispersion  Atmospheric modeling  Unmanned aerial vehicles  Position measurement  Wind speed  Mathematical model 
Abstract: Ahstract- This paper presents a method to estimate the original location and the mass of an instantaneous release of hazardous material into the atmosphere. It is formulated as an inverse problem, where concentration observations from a mobile sensor are fused with meteorological information and a Gaussian puff dispersion model to characterise the source. Bayes' theorem is used to estimate the parameters of the release taking into account the uncertainty that exists in the dispersion parameters and meteorological variables. An information based reward is used to guide an unmanned aerial vehicle equipped with a chemical sensor to the expected most informative measurement locations. Simulation results compare the performance between a single mobile sensor with various amounts of static sensors.


Title: Collision-Free Motion Planning for Human-Robot Collaborative Safety Under Cartesian Constraint
Key Words: collision avoidance  control system synthesis  end effectors  human-robot interaction  image segmentation  Kalman filters  nearest neighbour methods  robot vision  human-robot collaborative safety  Cartesian constraint  real-time motion planning  control design  robotic arm  multiple KinectV2 depth cameras  robot workspace  collision avoidance  robot end effector  collision-free motion planning method  6-DOF robot arm  Kalman filter  K-nearest neighbor searching algorithm  K-nearest neighbor searching algorithm  Robots  Collision avoidance  Force  Planning  Three-dimensional displays  Collaboration  Task analysis 
Abstract: This paper presents a real-time motion planning and control design of a robotic arm for human-robot collaborative safety. A novel collision-free motion planning method is proposed not only to keep robot body from colliding with objects but also preserve the execution of robot's original task under the Cartesian constraint of the environment. Multiple KinectV2 depth cameras are utilized to model and track dynamic obstacles (e.g. Humans and objects) inside the robot workspace. Depth images are applied to generate point cloud of segmented objects in the environment. A K-nearest neighbor (KNN) searching algorithm is used to cluster and find the closest point from the obstacle to the robot. Then a Kalman filter is applied to estimate the obstacle position and velocity. For the collision avoidance in collaborative operation, attractive and repulsive potential is generated for robot end effector based on the task specification and obstacle observation. Practical experiments show that the 6-DOF robot arm can effectively avoid an obstacle in a constrained environment and complete the original task.


Title: Sampling-Based Motion Planning with μ-Calculus Specifications Without Steering
Key Words: boundary-value problems  feedback  formal verification  linear quadratic control  motion control  path planning  probability  sampling methods  temporal logic  sampling-based motion planning  temporal logic specifications  linear dynamics  two-point boundary value problem  asymptotically optimal planning algorithm SST  local deterministic μ-calculus model  motion planning algorithm  deterministic μ-calculus specifications  multiple Kripke structures  abstracted Kripke structure  state-space  linear-quadratic regulator feedback control policy  complex liveness specification  steering function  kinodynamic planning algorithm SST  LQR feedback control policy  Calculus  Planning  Model checking  Trajectory  Reactive power  Lattices 
Abstract: While using temporal logic specifications with motion planning has been heavily researched, the reliance on having an available steering function is impractical and often suited only to basic problems with linear dynamics. This is because a steering function is a solution to an optimal two-point boundary value problem (OBVP); to our knowledge, it is nearly impossible to find an analytic solution to such problems in many cases. Addressing this issue, we have developed a means of combining the asymptotically optimal and probabilistically complete kinodynamic planning algorithm SST* with a local deterministic μ-calculus model checking procedure to create a motion planning algorithm with deterministic μ-calculus specifications that does not rely on a steering function. The procedure involves combining only the most pertinent information from multiple Kripke structures in order to create one abstracted Kripke structure storing the best paths to all possible proposition regions of the state-space. A linear-quadratic regulator (LQR) feedback control policy is then used to track these best paths, effectively connecting the trajectories found from multiple Kripke structures. Simulations demonstrate that it is possible to satisfy a complex liveness specification for infinitely often reaching specified regions of state-space using only forward propagation.


Title: Generating Vibration Free Rest-to-Rest Trajectories for Configuration Dependent Dynamic Systems via 3-Segmented Input Shaping
Key Words: bang-bang control  path planning  position control  configuration dependent dynamics  vibration-free RTR trajectory generation  bang-coast-bang trajectory  system dynamics  piece wise shaping  trajectory segmentation strategy  3-Segmented Input Shaping  configuration dependent dynamic systems  free rest-to-rest trajectories  Trajectory  Vibrations  Acceleration  Motion segmentation  System dynamics  Numerical simulation 
Abstract: This paper presents a new method to generate vibration free rest-to-rest (RTR) trajectories for configuration dependent dynamic systems, such as robots, cranes or machine tools. The new method named 3-Segmented Input Shaping is based on a combination of the widely known Input Shaping method and a new trajectory segmentation strategy for piece wise shaping of the trajectory. The new segmentation strategy facilitates the capability of accounting for variations in system dynamics during motion by shaping acceleration and deceleration profiles with individual frequencies. In this paper the new segmentation strategy is used in combination with the bang-coast-bang (BCB) trajectory. The generated trajectories are described in closed form, hence requires no optimization and thereby provides strong computational performance. The new method is verified by numerical simulations and detailed analysis and shows great potential in vibration-free RTR trajectory generation for systems with configuration dependent dynamics.


Title: Single-Image Footstep Prediction for Versatile Legged Locomotion
Key Words: convolution  feedforward neural nets  image colour analysis  intelligent robots  learning (artificial intelligence)  legged locomotion  path planning  prediction theory  robot kinematics  sensors  versatile legged locomotion  robots  longterm routes  horizontal terrain  vertical terrain  onboard sensors  vantage points  strongly foreshortened images  terrain features  viewing angle  convolutional neural network method  arbitrary tilt angles  route planner  plausible plans  rock climbing gyms  walking robots  climbing robots  single image footstep prediction  distance angle  valid handhold prediction  foothold locations prediction  single RGB+D images  learning techniques  flat ground  stairs  walls  Cameras  Legged locomotion  Planning  Robot kinematics  Three-dimensional displays  Rocks 
Abstract: Walking and climbing robots need to plan longterm routes on both horizontal and vertical terrain, but onboard sensors take images from vantage points that provide strongly foreshortened images that cause the appearance of terrain features to vary greatly by distance and viewing angle. This paper presents a convolutional neural network (CNN) method for predicting valid handhold and foothold locations from single RGB+D images taken at arbitrary tilt angles. Experiments show that the method predicts holds more accurately than comparable learning techniques, and that a route planner based on these predictions generates plausible plans for flat ground, stairs, and walls in rock climbing gyms.


Title: Learning to Parse Natural Language to Grounded Reward Functions with Weak Supervision
Key Words: grammars  lambda calculus  learning (artificial intelligence)  natural language processing  robots  trees (mathematics)  parse weights  validation-driven perceptron weight updates  goal-condition learning approach  grounded reward functions  language representations  weighted linear Combinatory Categorial Grammar semantic parser  CCG lexicon  parse trees  robot behaviors  Cleanup World domain  natural language parsing  goal-state reward functions  lambda calculus  Natural languages  Semantics  Task analysis  Planning  Robots  Trajectory  Navigation 
Abstract: In order to intuitively and efficiently collaborate with humans, robots must learn to complete tasks specified using natural language. We represent natural language instructions as goal-state reward functions specified using lambda calculus. Using reward functions as language representations allows robots to plan efficiently in stochastic environments. To map sentences to such reward functions, we learn a weighted linear Combinatory Categorial Grammar (CCG) semantic parser. The parser, including both parameters and the CCG lexicon, is learned from a validation procedure that does not require execution of a planner, annotating reward functions, or labeling parse trees, unlike prior approaches. To learn a CCG lexicon and parse weights, we use coarse lexical generation and validation-driven perceptron weight updates using the approach of Artzi and Zettlemoyer [4]. We present results on the Cleanup World domain [18] to demonstrate the potential of our approach. We report an F1 score of 0.82 on a collected corpus of 23 tasks containing combinations of nested referential expressions, comparators and object properties with 2037 corresponding sentences. Our goal-condition learning approach enables an improvement of orders of magnitude in computation time over a baseline that performs planning during learning, while achieving comparable results. Further, we conduct an experiment with just 6 labeled demonstrations to show the ease of teaching a robot behaviors using our method. We show that parsing models learned from small data sets can generalize to commands not seen during training.


Title: Joint Long-Term Prediction of Human Motion Using a Planning-Based Social Force Approach
Key Words: collision avoidance  Markov processes  mobile robots  motion control  multi-agent systems  multi-robot systems  random processes  stochastic processes  motion trajectories  planning-based approach  dynamic objects  planning-based social force approach  joint long-term prediction  individual agent velocities  social forces  weighted random walk algorithm  stochastic motion policies  long-term predictions  multiple agents  joint motion  local interactions  long-term human motion prediction  dynamic environments  intelligent vehicles  mobile robots  Trajectory  Prediction algorithms  Force  Predictive models  Planning  Stochastic processes  Robots 
Abstract: The ability to perceive and predict future positions of dynamic objects is essential for mobile robots and intelligent vehicles in dynamic environments. In this paper, we present a novel planning-based approach for long-term human motion prediction that accounts for local interactions and can accurately predict joint motion of multiple agents. Long-term predictions are handled using an MDP formulation that computes a set of stochastic motion policies. To obtain distributions over future motion trajectories, we sample the policies with a weighted random walk algorithm in which each person is locally influenced by social forces from other nearby agents. Unlike related work, the algorithm is environment-aware, can account for individual agent velocities, requires no training phase and makes joint predictions for multiple agents. Experiments in simulation and with real data show that our method makes more accurate predictions than two state-of-the-art methods in terms of probabilistic and geometrical performance measures.


Title: Multi-Robot Coordination in Dynamic Environments Shared with Humans
Key Words: human-robot interaction  mobile robots  multi-robot systems  navigation  path planning  market-based framework  coordination mechanism  social costs  bid evaluations  realistic environment  human-aware navigation  human-agnostic planning  social constraints  multirobot coordination  dynamic environments  social human-populated environments  multirobot task allocation problem  static humans  moving humans  high-fidelity simulator  localization noise  static people  blocked passages  human-aware planning  human-agnostic navigation  robot experiments  MRTA metrics  Robot kinematics  Task analysis  Navigation  Planning  Resource management  Measurement 
Abstract: This work addresses multi-robot coordination in social human-populated environments using a market-based framework for solving the Multi-Robot Task Allocation (MRTA) problem. Humans are considered in the proposed coordination mechanism by means of accounting for social costs in bid evaluations and requesting collaboration in socially blocking situations. Initially, the effect of a realistic environment with varying number of static/moving humans on the behavior and performance of our method is studied through an extensive suite of experiments in a high-fidelity simulator. Results show that the total traveled distance and time are increased when humans are present in the environments. Localization noise is also increased particularly in the case of static people. In the second series of experiments, a number of problematic cases resulting in longer modified paths, blocked passages, and long waits have been investigated. A comparative study targeting human-agnostic navigation and planning, human-aware navigation and human-agnostic planning, and human-aware navigation and planning has been conducted. Both simulated and real robot experiments confirm the effectiveness of accounting for humans at both team and individual levels. This leads to respecting social constraints as well as achieving a better performance based on MRTA metrics.


Title: Social Attention: Modeling Attention in Human Crowds
Key Words: collision avoidance  learning (artificial intelligence)  mobile robots  path planning  publicly available crowd datasets  trained attention model  Social Attention  human crowds  robots  human predictable trajectories  human trajectory prediction  Trajectory  Navigation  Predictive models  Robots  Collision avoidance  Dynamics  Task analysis 
Abstract: Robots that navigate through human crowds need to be able to plan safe, efficient, and human predictable trajectories. This is a particularly challenging problem as it requires the robot to predict future human trajectories within a crowd where everyone implicitly cooperates with each other to avoid collisions. Previous approaches to human trajectory prediction have modeled the interactions between humans as a function of proximity. However, that is not necessarily true as some people in our immediate vicinity moving in the same direction might not be as important as other people that are further away, but that might collide with us in the future. In this work, we propose Social Attention, a novel trajectory prediction model that captures the relative importance of each person when navigating in the crowd, irrespective of their proximity. We demonstrate the performance of our method against a state-of-the-art approach on two publicly available crowd datasets and analyze the trained attention model to gain a better understanding of which surrounding agents humans attend to, when navigating in a crowd.


Title: Footstep Planning in Rough Terrain for Bipedal Robots Using Curved Contact Patches
Key Words: humanoid robots  legged locomotion  off-road vehicles  path planning  robot vision  rough terrain  rough terrain stepping  WALK-MAN humanoid robot  flat foothold contact analysis  rough local terrain surfaces  curved patch modeling system  6DoF footstep sequences  black box walking controller  proper environment modeling  visual perception  foothold placements  exteroceptive perception  curved contact patches  bipedal robots  footstep planning  Planning  Three-dimensional displays  Rough surfaces  Surface roughness  Robot sensing systems  Navigation 
Abstract: Bipedal robots have gained a lot of locomotion capabilities the past few years, especially in the control level. Navigation over complex and unstructured environments using exteroceptive perception, is still an active research topic. In this paper, we present a footstep planning system to produce foothold placements, using visual perception and proper environment modeling, given a black box walking controller. In particular, we extend a state-of-the-art search-based planning approach (ARA*) that produces 6DoF footstep sequences in 3D space for flat uneven terrain, to also handle rough curved surfaces, e.g. rocks. This is achieved by integrating both a curved patch modeling system for rough local terrain surfaces and a flat foothold contact analysis based on visual range input data, into the existing planning framework. The system is experimentally validated using real-world point clouds, while rough terrain stepping demonstrations are presented on the WALK-MAN humanoid robot, in simulation.


Title: Safe Distributed Lane Change Maneuvers for Multiple Autonomous Vehicles Using Buffered Input Cells
Key Words: collision avoidance  computational geometry  decision making  feedback  mobile robots  position control  road safety  road vehicles  safe distributed lane change maneuvers  multiple autonomous vehicles  reciprocal collision avoidance method  autonomous cars  linear dynamics  buffered input cell  Voronoi cell  Voronoi diagrams  vehicles control input  control stack  freeway driving scenario  decision-making layer  trajectory planning layer  feedback controller  BIC method  human-driven car  Collision avoidance  Robots  Vehicle dynamics  Aerospace electronics  Traffic control  Autonomous vehicles  Planning 
Abstract: This paper introduces the Buffered Input Cell as a reciprocal collision avoidance method for multiple vehicles with high-order linear dynamics, extending recently proposed methods based on the Buffered Voronoi Cell [1] and generalized Voronoi diagrams [2]. We prove that if each vehicle's control input remains in its Buffered Input Cell at each time step, collisions will be avoided indefinitely. The method is fast, reactive, and only requires that each vehicle measures the relative position of neighboring vehicles. We incorporate this collision avoidance method as one layer of a complete lane change control stack for autonomous cars in a freeway driving scenario. The lane change control stack comprises a decision-making layer, a trajectory planning layer, a trajectory following feedback controller, and the Buffered Input Cell for collision avoidance. We show in simulations that collisions are avoided with multiple vehicles simultaneously changing lanes on a freeway. We also show in simulations that autonomous cars using the BIC method effectively avoid collisions with an aggressive human-driven car.


Title: Learning Steering Bounds for Parallel Autonomous Systems
Key Words: Bayes methods  cameras  control engineering computing  Gaussian processes  learning (artificial intelligence)  mixture models  mobile robots  neural nets  path planning  road vehicles  robot vision  steering systems  parallel autonomous systems  deep learning  autonomous driving task  camera data input  autonomous navigation  vehicle control  continuous control probability distribution  deep neural network based algorithm  steering angles  parallel autonomy setting  driving conditions  variational Bayesian methods  steering bounds learning  end-to-end learning  steering control options  Gaussian mixture models  Autonomous vehicles  Navigation  Neural networks  Probability distribution  Decision making  Machine learning  Bayes methods 
Abstract: Deep learning has been successfully applied to “end-to-end” learning of the autonomous driving task, where a deep neural network learns to predict steering control commands from camera data input. However, the learned representations do not support higher-level decision making required for autonomous navigation, nor the uncertainty estimates required for parallel autonomy, where vehicle control is shared between human and robot. This paper tackles the problem of learning a representation to predict a continuous control probability distribution, and thus steering control options and bounds for those options, which can be used for autonomous navigation. Each mode of the distribution encodes a possible macro-action that the system could execute at that instant, and the covariances of the modes place bounds on safe steering control values. Our approach has the added advantage of being trained on unlabeled data collected from inexpensive cameras. The deep neural network based algorithm generates a probability distribution over the space of steering angles, from which we leverage Variational Bayesian methods to extract a mixture model and compute the different possible actions in the environment. A bound, which the autonomous vehicle must respect in our parallel autonomy setting, is then computed for each of these actions. We evaluate our approach on a challenging dataset containing a wide variety of driving conditions, and show that our algorithm is capable of parameterizing Gaussian Mixture Models for possible actions, and extract steering bounds with a mean error of only 2 degrees. Additionally, we demonstrate our system working on a full scale autonomous vehicle and evaluate its ability to successful handle various different parallel autonomy situations.


Title: Adapting the Goals/Questions/Metrics (GQM) Method for Applications in Robot Design
Key Words: grippers  service robots  Goals/Questions/Metrics method  robot design  advanced robots  resource-intensive activity  research teams  complex robot systems  design metrics  design tool  design-orientated GQM method  bespoke robotic gripper  service robot  GQM principles  robotics applications  Measurement  Prototypes  Grippers  Service robots  Robot sensing systems  Planning 
Abstract: Developing advanced robots can be a resource-intensive activity that creates many challenges for research teams. There is a need to formulate new techniques for systematically designing complex robot systems, especially in cases where high adaptability is needed and design metrics cannot be explicitly specified in advance. This research explores how the Goals/Questions/Metrics (GQM) method, a well-established technique for process measurement, can be modified for use as a design tool in robotics. To illustrate how a design-orientated GQM method may be used in practice, a sample use-case is given detailing how the approach was applied to the task of developing a bespoke robotic gripper for a service robot. The study provides an early indication that the adoption of GQM principles by designers can have significant benefits in robotics applications. However, further investigation is needed to better understand the magnitude and scope of any improvements.


Title: Dry Stacking for Automated Construction with Irregular Objects
Key Words: assembly planning  brick  building management systems  buildings (structures)  construction industry  disasters  heuristic programming  mechanical stability  robotic assembly  statistical analysis  structural engineering  automated construction  irregular objects  dry stacked structures  disaster areas  remote environments  assembly planning process  bricks  heuristics programming  Shape  Stacking  Planning  Stability analysis  Two dimensional displays  Building materials 
Abstract: We describe a method for automatically building structures from stacked, irregularly shaped objects. This is a simplified model for the problem of building dry stacked structures (i.e. no mortar) from found stones. Although automating such construction methods would be ideally suited for disaster areas or remote environments, currently such structures need to be built by skilled masons. No practical methods for automating the assembly planning process are known. The problem is challenging since each assembly action can be drawn from a continuous space poses for an object and several local geometric and physical considerations strongly affect the overall stability. We show that structures that are built following a stacking order for perfect bricks can accommodate a limited amount of irregularity, however, their performance degrades quickly when objects deviate from their ideal shape. We present a strategy for stacking irregular shapes that first considers geometric and physical constraints to find a small set of feasible actions and then further refines this set by using heuristics gathered from instructional literature for masons. The proposed method of choosing assembly actions allows construction with objects that contain a significant amount of variation.


Title: Optimal Path Planning in Time-Varying Flows with Forecasting Uncertainties
Key Words: graph theory  marine control  Markov processes  optimisation  path planning  Markov decision process  uncertain flow model  ocean environment  time-varying flows  minimum energy paths  uncertain flow field  transition probability model  minimum expected cost path  graph search based method  minimum expected cost policy  marine environments  Path planning  Computational modeling  Oceans  Predictive models  Forecast uncertainty  Drag 
Abstract: Uncertainties in flow models have to be explicitly considered for effective path planning in marine environments. In this paper, we present two methods to compute minimum expected cost policies and paths over an uncertain flow model. The first method based on a Markov Decision Process computes a minimum expected cost policy while the second graph search based method, computes a minimum expected cost path. A transition probability model is developed to compute the probability of transition from one state to another under a given action. In addition, a method to compute the expected cost of a path when it is executed in an uncertain flow field is also presented. The two methods are used to compute minimum energy paths in an ocean environment and the results are analyzed in simulations.


Title: Topological Hotspot Identification for Informative Path Planning with a Marine Robot
Key Words: computational geometry  graph theory  greedy algorithms  image segmentation  marine control  mobile robots  path planning  robot vision  topological graph  greedy-coverage algorithm  informative path planning problem  topological hotspot identification  marine robot  topological map  biological hotspots  aquatic environment  Fast Marching-based Voronoi segmentation  scheduling problem  Path planning  Monitoring  Oceans  Robot sensing systems  Task analysis  Frequency modulation 
Abstract: In this work, we present a novel method for constructing a topological map of biological hotspots in an aquatic environment using a Fast Marching-based Voronoi segmentation. Using this topological map, we develop a closed form solution to the scheduling problem for any single path through the graph. Searching over the space of all paths allows us to compute a maximally informative path that traverses a subset of the hotspots, given some budget. Using a greedy-coverage algorithm we can then compute an informative path. We evaluate our method in a set of simulated trials, both with randomly generated environments and a real-world environment. In these trials, we show that our method produces a topological graph which more accurately captures features in the environment than standard thresholding techniques. Additionally, We show that our method can improve the performance of a greedy-coverage algorithm in the informative path planning problem by guiding it to different informative areas to help it escape from local maxima.


Title: Preliminary Evaluation of Cooperative Navigation of Underwater Vehicles without a DVL Utilizing a Dynamic Process Model
Key Words: attitude control  autonomous underwater vehicles  Global Positioning System  marine control  mobile robots  path planning  robot dynamics  robot kinematics  sensors  velocity measurement  preliminary evaluation  dynamic process model  fully dynamic vehicle process model  acoustic modem  surface vehicle  at-sea experimental trials  JHU Iver3 autonomous underwater vehicle  underwater vehicle navigation  DVL acoustic bottom-lock range  kinematic process model  dynamical process model  submerged vehicle  underwater communication  velocity measurements  attitude sensor  Acoustics  Underwater vehicles  Kinematics  Global Positioning System  Sensors 
Abstract: This paper reports a preliminary study for use of a fully dynamic vehicle process model in combined underwater communication and navigation (cooperative navigation) of underwater vehicles equipped with an acoustic modem, attitude, and depth sensors, but lacking a Doppler velocity log (DVL), and a surface vehicle equipped with an acoustic modem and GPS. We report both simulation and at-sea experimental trials with the JHU Iver3 autonomous underwater vehicle (AUV). The case of underwater vehicle navigation without a DVL is of interest in several use-cases including (a) small and low-cost underwater vehicles for which DVLs may be impractical or infeasible due to their size and cost and (b) for missions in which the vehicle's altitude above the sea floor (or depth beneath overhead ice) exceeds the DVL acoustic bottom-lock range. To the best of our knowledge, all previous studies on cooperative navigation have reported use of a kinematic process model, which works well in the presence of frequent, high-accuracy velocity measurements, as is the case when the vehicle is equipped with a DVL. This preliminary study suggests that the dynamical process model may offer a significant advantage over the purely kinematic model in the absence of frequent, high-accuracy velocity measurements, as is the case when the submerged vehicle is not equipped with a DVL.


Title: Inertial Parameters Identification of a Humanoid Robot Hanged to a Fix Force Sensor
Key Words: CAD  force sensors  humanoid robots  legged locomotion  motion control  parameter estimation  path planning  robot dynamics  fix force sensor  model-based controller  motion planning  dynamic identification  dynamic motions  safe fix base tree structure robot  optimal exciting motions  HOAP3 humanoid robot  6-axis force sensor  computer aided design data  inertial parameter identification  Humanoid robots  Force sensors  Dynamics  Robot sensing systems  Mathematical model  Optimization 
Abstract: Knowledge of the mass and inertial parameters of a humanoid robot is crucial for the development of model-based controller and motion planning in dynamics situation. Parameters are usually provided from Computer Aided Design (CAD) data and thus inaccurate specially if the robot is modified over time. In this paper, a practical method consisting of hanging a humanoid robot to a fix force sensor to perform its dynamic identification is proposed. This allows, contrary to the literature, to generate very exciting and dynamic motions to identify most of the elements of the inertia tensors in a reduced amount of time. This procedure transforms an instable floating base legged humanoid robot to a safe fix base tree structure robot which makes easier to generate optimal exciting motions. Because of a better excitation the overall trajectory lasts for less than a minute. The method was experimentally validated with a HOAP3 humanoid robot and using a 6-axis force sensor. A reduction of 3 times in average of the RMS difference between measured external reaction forces and moments and their estimates from CAD data was obtained with a single minute of optimal exciting motions.


Title: A Scalable Multi-Robot Task Allocation Algorithm
Key Words: computational complexity  industrial robots  mobile robots  multi-robot systems  nearest neighbour methods  pattern clustering  vehicle routing  warehouse automation  CVRP instance  nCAR  scalable multirobot task allocation algorithm  modern warehouses  docking station  route planning  capacity-constrained vehicle routing problem  nearest-neighbor based clustering and routing  Task analysis  Heuristic algorithms  Clustering algorithms  Resource management  Routing  Service robots 
Abstract: In modern warehouses, robots are being deployed to perform complex tasks such as fetching a set of objects from various locations in a warehouse to a docking station. This requires a careful task allocation along with route planning such that the total distance traveled (cost) is minimized. The number of tasks that can be performed by a robot on a single route depends on the maximum capacity of the robot and the combined weight of the objects it picks on the route. This task allocation problem is an instance of the Capacity-constrained Vehicle Routing Problem (CVRP), which is known to be NP-hard. Although, there exist a number of heuristics that provide near-optimal solutions to a CVRP instance, they do not scale well with the task size (number of nodes). In this paper, we present a heuristic, called nearest-neighbor based Clustering And Routing (nCAR), which has better execution time compared to the state-of-the-art heuristics. Also, our heuristic reduces cost of the solutions when there are a large number of nodes. We compare the performance of nCAR with the Google OR-Tools and found a speedup of 6 in runtime when task size is 2000. Though OR-Tools provides a low-cost solution for small number of tasks, it's execution time and number of routes is 1.5 times that of nCAR.


Title: Distributed Intermittent Communication Control of Mobile Robot Networks Under Time-Critical Dynamic Tasks
Key Words: control engineering computing  distributed control  mobile robots  multi-robot systems  protocols  scheduling  time-critical dynamic tasks  offline schedules  mobile robot networks  distributed intermittent communication control  task accomplishment  task planning  communication events  distributed control framework  communication constraints  intermittent communication protocols  connected networks  reliable networks  robot communication capabilities  Task analysis  Robot sensing systems  Time factors  Schedules  Communication networks 
Abstract: In this paper, we develop a distributed intermittent communication framework for teams of mobile robots that are responsible for accomplishing time-critical dynamic tasks and sharing the collected information with all other robots and possibly also with a user. Specifically, we consider situations where the robot communication capabilities are not sufficient to maintain reliable and connected networks while the robots move to accomplish their tasks. In this case, intermittent communication protocols are necessary that allow the robots to temporarily disconnect from the network in order to accomplish their tasks free of communication constraints. We assume that the robots can only communicate with each other when they meet at common locations in space. Our proposed distributed control framework determines offline schedules of communication events and integrates them online with task planning. The resulting paths ensure task accomplishment and exchange of information among robots infinitely often at locations that minimize a user-specified metric. Simulation results corroborate the proposed distributed control framework.


Title: Landmark-based Exploration with Swarm of Resource Constrained Robots
Key Words: distance measurement  Global Positioning System  mobile robots  multi-robot systems  path planning  robot vision  sensor fusion  landmark-based exploration  resource constrained robots  autonomous exploration  topological representation  topological information  exploitation strategy  robot swarm  GPS-denied environment  sensing capabilities  range sensor  dense landmarks  bearing angles  metric information  local navigation  Robot kinematics  Robot sensing systems  Navigation  Dispersion  Measurement 
Abstract: In this paper we consider the problem of autonomous exploration of an unknown, GPS-denied environment using a swarm of robots with very limited resources and limited sensing capabilities. To that end we use a landmark complex, a simplicial complex utilizing an observation of landmarks, as a topological representation of the environment. Each robot is equipped with an omni-directional, limited-range sensor that can identify landmarks in the robot's neighborhood. The robots use the bearing angles to the landmarks for local navigation. Given a collection of identifiable landmarks, a landmark complex can then be cumulatively constructed to encapsulate the topological information of the environment. Under the assumption of sufficiently dense landmarks, we propose an exploration and exploitation strategy that guides the swarm of robots to explore an environment using only bearing measurements without any metric information. Lastly, we demonstrate the coordinate-free and localization-free navigation in the environment using the constructed landmark complex.


Title: Coverage Control for Wire-Traversing Robots
Key Words: gradient methods  minimisation  mobile robots  motion control  path planning  continuous constrained coverage control problem  mobile robots  COW map  Continuous Onto Wires map  constrained locational cost minimization  final projection step  Lloyd descent algorithm  planar environment  continuous motion  one-dimensional manifolds  two-dimensional motion  wire-traversing robots  Wires  Minimization  Robot sensing systems  Optimization  Motion control  Power transmission lines 
Abstract: In this paper we consider the coverage control problem for a team of wire-traversing robots. The two-dimensional motion of robots moving in a planar environment has to be projected to one-dimensional manifolds representing the wires. Starting from Lloyd's descent algorithm for coverage control, a solution that generates continuous motion of the robots on the wires is proposed. This is realized by means of a Continuous Onto Wires (COW) map: the robots' workspace is mapped onto the wires on which the motion of the robots is constrained to be. A final projection step is introduced to ensure that the configuration of the robots on the wires is a local minimizer of the constrained locational cost. An algorithm for the continuous constrained coverage control problem is proposed and it is tested both in simulation and on a team of mobile robots.


Title: PRM-RL: Long-range Robotic Navigation Tasks by Combining Reinforcement Learning and Sampling-Based Planning
Key Words: learning (artificial intelligence)  mobile robots  navigation  neural nets  path planning  probability  robot dynamics  robot vision  sampling methods  sampling based planner  hierarchical method  sampling based path planning  large scale topology  probabilistic roadmaps  feature based deep neural net policies  continuous state  action spaces  simulation  office environments  aerial cargo delivery  urban environments  load displacement constraints  trajectories  noisy sensor conditions  flights  training  PRM RL  long range robotic navigation tasks  point to point navigation policies  end to end differential drive indoor navigation  nontrivial robot dynamics  robot configurations  task constraints  capture robot dynamics  RL agent  reinforcement learning  Task analysis  Robot sensing systems  Indoor navigation  Aerospace electronics  Learning (artificial intelligence) 
Abstract: We present PRM-RL, a hierarchical method for long-range navigation task completion that combines sampling-based path planning with reinforcement learning (RL). The RL agents learn short-range, point-to-point navigation policies that capture robot dynamics and task constraints without knowledge of the large-scale topology. Next, the sampling-based planners provide roadmaps which connect robot configurations that can be successfully navigated by the RL agent. The same RL agents are used to control the robot under the direction of the planning, enabling long-range navigation. We use the Probabilistic Roadmaps (PRMs) for the sampling-based planner. The RL agents are constructed using feature-based and deep neural net policies in continuous state and action spaces. We evaluate PRM-RL, both in simulation and on-robot, on two navigation tasks with non-trivial robot dynamics: end-to-end differential drive indoor navigation in office environments, and aerial cargo delivery in urban environments with load displacement constraints. Our results show improvement in task completion over both RL agents on their own and traditional sampling-based planners. In the indoor navigation task, PRM-RL successfully completes up to 215 m long trajectories under noisy sensor conditions, and the aerial cargo delivery completes flights over 1000 m without violating the task constraints in an environment 63 million times larger than used in training.


Title: Self-Supervised Deep Reinforcement Learning with Generalized Computation Graphs for Robot Navigation
Key Words: learning (artificial intelligence)  mobile robots  path planning  robot vision  double Q-learning  self-supervised deep reinforcement learning  self-supervised training  model-based methods  value-based model-free methods  learning-based methods  planning method  internal map  robot navigation  generalized computation graph  Computational modeling  Navigation  Learning (artificial intelligence)  Robots  Task analysis  Prediction algorithms  Planning 
Abstract: Enabling robots to autonomously navigate complex environments is essential for real-world deployment. Prior methods approach this problem by having the robot maintain an internal map of the world, and then use a localization and planning method to navigate through the internal map. However, these approaches often include a variety of assumptions, are computationally intensive, and do not learn from failures. In contrast, learning-based methods improve as the robot acts in the environment, but are difficult to deploy in the real-world due to their high sample complexity. To address the need to learn complex policies with few samples, we propose a generalized computation graph that subsumes value-based model-free methods and model-based methods, with specific instantiations interpolating between model-free and model-based. We then instantiate this graph to form a navigation model that learns from raw images and is sample efficient. Our simulated car experiments explore the design decisions of our navigation model, and show our approach outperforms single-step and N-step double Q-learning. We also evaluate our approach on a real-world RC car and show it can learn to navigate through a complex indoor environment with a few hours of fully autonomous, self-supervised training. Videos of the experiments and code can be found at github.com/gkahn13/gcg.


Title: Efficient Active SLAM Based on Submap Joining, Graph Topology and Convex Optimization
Key Words: computational complexity  convex programming  least squares approximations  minimisation  mobile robots  path planning  predictive control  quadratic programming  robot vision  SLAM (robots)  graph topology  active SLAM problem  robot trajectory  area coverage task  model predictive control framework  uncertainty minimization MPC problem  graphical structure  2D feature-based SLAM  variable substitutions  convex optimization method  MPC framework  sequential quadratic programming method  linear SLAM  submap joining approach  planning  simultaneous localization and mapping  nonconvex constrained least-squares problem  Optimized production technology  Simultaneous localization and mapping  Uncertainty  Task analysis  Robot kinematics 
Abstract: The active SLAM problem considered in this paper aims to plan a robot trajectory for simultaneous localization and mapping (SLAM) as well as for an area coverage task with robot pose uncertainty. Based on a model predictive control (MPC) framework, these two problems are solved respectively by different methods. For the uncertainty minimization MPC problem, based on the graphical structure of the 2D feature-based SLAM, a non-convex constrained least-squares problem is presented to approximate the original problem. Then, using variable substitutions, it is further transformed into a convex problem, and then solved by a convex optimization method. For the coverage task considering robot pose uncertainty, it is formulated and solved by the MPC framework and the sequential quadratic programming (SQP) method. In the whole process, considering the computation complexity, we use linear SLAM, which is a submap joining approach, to reduce the time for planning and estimation. Finally, various simulations are presented to validate the effectiveness of the proposed approach.


Title: Model Predictive Control of a Multi-Rotor with a Suspended Load for Avoiding Obstacles
Key Words: aerospace robotics  collision avoidance  helicopters  mobile robots  predictive control  robot dynamics  vehicle dynamics  path planning  trajectory generation algorithms  MPC  sequential linear quadratic  SLQ  obstacle-avoidance algorithm  Model Predictive Control  dynamic environments  planning algorithms  multirotor  suspended load  Heuristic algorithms  Trajectory  Cost function  Mathematical model  Vehicle dynamics  Load modeling  Computational modeling 
Abstract: This paper investigates a multi-rotor with a suspended load in perspectives of 1) real-time path planning, 2) obstacle avoidance, and 3) transportation of a suspended object. A suspended load cannot be controlled with conventional controllers designed for nominal multi-rotors due to the dynamic coupling between the multi-rotor and load. Although several control and planning algorithms have been proposed based on elaborately derived dynamic equations, most existing studies separate control and path planning problems by following predefined trajectories after trajectory generation. Moreover, many state-of-the-art trajectory generation algorithms cannot work real-time for a system with high degrees of freedom, which makes it not suitable to operate the system in dynamic environments where obstacles appear abruptly or move unexpectedly. With this in mind, we apply Model Predictive Control (MPC) with Sequential Linear Quadratic (SLQ) solver to compute feasible and optimal trajectory real-time and to operate a multi-rotor with a suspended load in dynamic environments. We design an obstacle-avoidance algorithm suitable for the current platform flying in cluttered environments. Flight experiments shows that the proposed algorithm successfully controls the multi-rotor and allows to avoid obstacles simultaneously.


Title: Whole-Body Sensory Concept for Compliant Mobile Robots
Key Words: compliance control  filtering theory  force sensors  human-robot interaction  mobile robots  motion control  navigation  neurocontrollers  path planning  torque control  compliant mobile robots  mobile robot navigation  direct physical contact  intuitive communication  physical interaction  disturbance forces  mobile platform  neural network approach  distance sensors  mobile robot applications  whole-body sensory  model-free filtering approach  6-DoF force-torque sensor  robot-human interaction  Robot sensing systems  Force  Mobile robots  Collision avoidance  Oscillators 
Abstract: Most of the conventional approaches to mobile robot navigation avoid any kind of contact with the environment or with humans. As nowadays distance sensors typically have a limited - and often only two-dimensional - field of view, collisions with the environment or contacts with humans cannot be fully avoided in practical mobile robot applications. On the other hand, direct physical contact can be used for intuitive communication between a robot and humans. In this paper, we present a whole-body sensory concept based on a 6-DoF force-torque sensor to perceive physical interaction between the robot and humans. To distinguish between external contact and disturbance forces that result from the motion of the mobile platform or oscillations, we present a novel model-free filtering approach based on a neural network. In extensive experiments carried out with our robot Canny we demonstrate the effectiveness and advantages of the neural network approach, which clearly outperforms a classical model-based one.


Title: Robust, Compliant Assembly via Optimal Belief Space Planning
Key Words: assembling  CAD  friction  geometry  mobile robots  optimal control  path planning  planning (artificial intelligence)  probability  robot dynamics  uncertain systems  compliant assembly  optimal belief space planning  automated manufacturing  robots  nonlinear contact-dynamics  model parameters  belief space planning problem  compliant system  asymptotically optimal belief space planner  kinodynamic motion planner  asymptotic optimality  multiple assembly tasks  CAD models  state spaces  object poses  geometry  friction  uncertainty  impedance-control  nondeterministic domains  probabilistic completeness  Planning  Robots  Trajectory  Uncertainty  Task analysis  Aerospace electronics  Dynamics 
Abstract: In automated manufacturing, robots must reliably assemble parts of various geometries and low tolerances. Ideally, they plan the required motions autonomously. This poses a substantial challenge due to high-dimensional state spaces and non-linear contact-dynamics. Furthermore, object poses and model parameters, such as friction, are not exactly known and a source of uncertainty. The method proposed in this paper models the task of parts assembly as a belief space planning problem over an underlying impedance-controlled, compliant system. To solve this planning problem we introduce an asymptotically optimal belief space planner by extending an optimal, randomized, kinodynamic motion planner to nondeterministic domains. Under an expansiveness assumption we establish probabilistic completeness and asymptotic optimality. We validate our approach in thorough, simulated and realworld experiments of multiple assembly tasks. The experiments demonstrate our planner's ability to reliably assemble objects, solely based on CAD models as input.


Title: First Autonomous Multi-Room Exploration with an Insect-Inspired Flapping Wing Vehicle
Key Words: autonomous aerial vehicles  image colour analysis  mobile robots  path planning  robot vision  stereo image processing  multiroom exploration task  DelFly Explorer  autonomous indoor exploration mission  room exploration  stereo-vision based droplet algorithm  heading-based door passage algorithm  flapping wing vehicles  autonomous exploration tasks  autonomous multiroom exploration  wing vehicle  MAVs  autonomous indoor navigation  rotary wings  flapping wing MAV  stereo vision system  microair vehicles  monocular color based Snake-gate algorithm  Task analysis  Robot sensing systems  Navigation  Collision avoidance  Cameras  Image color analysis 
Abstract: One of the emerging tasks for Micro Air Vehicles (MAVs) is autonomous indoor navigation. While commonly employed platforms for such tasks are micro-quadrotors, insect-inspired flapping wing MAVs can offer many advantages, such as being inherently safe due to their low inertia, reciprocating wings bouncing of objects or potentially lower noise levels compared to rotary wings. Here, we present the first flapping wing MAV to perform an autonomous multi-room exploration task. Equipped with an on-board autopilot and a 4 g stereo vision system, the DelFly Explorer succeeded in combining the two most common tasks of an autonomous indoor exploration mission: room exploration and door passage. During the room exploration, the vehicle uses stereo-vision based droplet algorithm to avoid and navigate along the walls and obstacles. Simultaneously, it is running a newly developed monocular color based Snake-gate algorithm to locate doors. A successful detection triggers the heading-based door passage algorithm. In the real-world test, the vehicle could successfully navigate, multiple times in a row, between two rooms separated by a corridor, demonstrating the potential of flapping wing vehicles for autonomous exploration tasks.


Title: Grasp Quality Evaluation with Whole Arm Kinematic Noise Propagation
Key Words: grippers  manipulator kinematics  path planning  probability  robust control  arm configurations  force closure region  kinematic robot structure  arm kinematic noise propagation  grasp quality evaluation  local robustness  arm configuration  grasp quality metric  redundant robot  Measurement  Force  Kinematics  Manipulators  Ellipsoids  Random variables 
Abstract: In this paper we propose a new approach to evaluate grasps that accounts for both the kinematic structure of the robot and the noise at its joints. Our starting observation is that with a redundant robot the same grasp can be implemented with different arm configurations, and these may display significant differences in terms of robustness to disturbances. Consequently, the grasp quality metric is seen as a random variable depending on the arm configuration. Starting from a first order approximation for the error, we introduce the high probability force closure region as a tool to evaluate the local robustness of an arm configuration, and we then introduce a new metric Qarm to rank different configurations according to the robustness to noise. By combining this method in an offline/online framework, we demonstrate through large scale simulations that this approach successfully captures aspects that were neglected in former literature regarding grasp evaluation, and can successfully be integrated into future grasp planners.


Title: Realtime Planning for High-DOF Deformable Bodies Using Two-Stage Learning
Key Words: collision avoidance  finite element analysis  learning (artificial intelligence)  mobile robots  motion control  neurocontrollers  path planning  position control  realtime planning  high-DOF deformable bodies  arbitrarily-shaped volumetric deformable bodies  complex environments  high-dimensional configuration spaces  dynamics constraints  two-stage learning method  multitask controller  dynamic movement primitives  neural-network controller  DMP task  finite element method  contact invariant optimization  gradient-based method  two-stage learning algorithm  trained DMP controller  different navigation tasks  learned motion planner  walking deformable robots  obstacle avoidance  Deep Q-Learning  Planning  Deformable models  Robots  Finite element analysis  Strain  Computational modeling  Task analysis 
Abstract: We present a method for planning the motion of arbitrarily-shaped volumetric deformable bodies or robots through complex environments. Such robots have very high-dimensional configuration spaces and we compute trajectories that satisfy the dynamics constraints using a two-stage learning method. First, we train a multitask controller parameterized using dynamic movement primitives (DMP), which encodes various locomotion or movement skills. Next, we train a neural-network controller to select the DMP task to navigate the robot through environments while avoiding obstacles. By combining the finite element method (FEM), model reduction, and contact invariant optimization (CIO), the DMP controller's parameters can be optimized efficiently using a gradient-based method, while the neural-network's parameters are optimized using Deep Q-Learning (DQL). This two-stage learning algorithm also allows us to reuse the trained DMP controller for different navigation tasks, such as moving through different environmental types and to different goal positions. Our results show that the learned motion planner can navigate swimming and walking deformable robots with thousands of DOFs at realtime.


Title: Dex-Net 3.0: Computing Robust Vacuum Suction Grasp Targets in Point Clouds Using a New Analytic Model and Deep Learning
Key Words: convolution  dexterous manipulators  end effectors  feedforward neural nets  grippers  industrial manipulators  learning (artificial intelligence)  manipulator dynamics  deep learning  vacuum-based end effectors  multifinger grippers  suction cup  external wrenches  pneumatic suction gripper  point clouds  grasp quality convolutional neural network  robust vacuum suction grasp targets  gravity wrench  parallel-jaw grippers  object pose  material properties  GQ-CNN  ABB YuMi  adversarial  Three-dimensional displays  Robustness  Robots  Analytical models  Seals  Computational modeling  Planning 
Abstract: Vacuum-based end effectors are widely used in industry and are often preferred over parallel-jaw and multifinger grippers due to their ability to lift objects with a single point of contact. Suction grasp planners often target planar surfaces on point clouds near the estimated centroid of an object. In this paper, we propose a compliant suction contact model that computes the quality of the seal between the suction cup and local target surface and a measure of the ability of the suction grasp to resist an external gravity wrench. To characterize grasps, we estimate robustness to perturbations in end-effector and object pose, material properties, and external wrenches. We analyze grasps across 1,500 3D object models to generate Dex-Net 3.0, a dataset of 2.8 million point clouds, suction grasps, and grasp robustness labels. We use Dex-Net 3.0 to train a Grasp Quality Convolutional Neural Network (GQ-CNN) to classify robust suction targets in point clouds containing a single object. We evaluate the resulting system in 350 physical trials on an ABB YuMi fitted with a pneumatic suction gripper. When evaluated on novel objects that we categorize as Basic (prismatic or cylindrical), Typical (more complex geometry), and Adversarial (with few available suction-grasp points) Dex-Net 3.0 achieves success rates of 98%, 82%, and 58% respectively, improving to 81% in the latter case when the training set includes only adversarial objects. Code, datasets, and supplemental material can be found at http://berkeleyautomation.github.io/dex-net.


Title: Sensor-Based Reactive Symbolic Planning in Partially Known Environments
Key Words: collision avoidance  mobile robots  sensors  differential drive robot  LIDAR sensor  passive objects  deliberative planner  symbolic commands  obstacle avoidance  reactive planner  sensor-based reactive symbolic planning  nonconvex environments  convex obstacles  high-level commands  Robot sensing systems  Planning  Task analysis  Grippers  Laser radar  Collision avoidance 
Abstract: This paper considers the problem of completing assemblies of passive objects in nonconvex environments, cluttered with convex obstacles of unknown position, shape and size that satisfy a specific separation assumption. A differential drive robot equipped with a gripper and a LIDAR sensor, capable of perceiving its environment only locally, is used to position the passive objects in a desired configuration. The method combines the virtues of a deliberative planner generating high-level, symbolic commands, with the formal guarantees of convergence and obstacle avoidance of a reactive planner that requires little onboard computation and is used online. The validity of the proposed method is verified both with formal proofs and numerical simulations.


Title: Navigating Congested Environments with Risk Level Sets
Key Words: collision avoidance  mobile robots  multi-agent systems  road vehicles  risk level set  congested environment navigation  cluttered environment  congestion cost  occupancy risk  cost function  planning space  agent planning  autonomous vehicle driving  risk threshold  conservative behavior  aggressive behavior  Planning  Level set  Navigation  Vehicle dynamics  Autonomous vehicles  Collision avoidance  Cost function 
Abstract: In this paper, we address the problem of navigating in a cluttered environment by introducing a congestion cost that maps the density and motion of objects to an occupancy risk. We propose that an agent can choose a “risk level set” from this cost function and construct a planning space from this set. In choosing different levels of risk, the agent adjusts its interactions with the other agents. From the assumption that agents are self-preserving, we show that any agent planning within their risk level set will avoid collisions with other agents. We then present an application of planning with risk level sets in the framework of an autonomous vehicle driving along a highway. Using the risk level sets, the agent can determine safe zones when planning a sequence of lane changes. Through simulations in Matlab, we demonstrate how the choice of risk threshold manifests as aggressive or conservative behavior.


Title: Algorithms for Routing of Unmanned Aerial Vehicles with Mobile Recharging Stations
Key Words: autonomous aerial vehicles  battery powered vehicles  computational complexity  travelling salesman problems  vehicle routing  Unmanned Aerial Vehicles  mobile recharging stations  energy-limited Unmanned Aerial Vehicle  stationary recharging stations  Unmanned Ground Vehicles  UGV  Traveling Salesperson Problem  stationary charging stations  UAV mission  Routing  NP-Hard  Generalized TSP  Batteries  Unmanned aerial vehicles  Charging stations  Land vehicles  Optimization  Monitoring  Planning 
Abstract: We study the problem of finding a tour for an energy-limited Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV) to visit a set of sites in the least amount of time. We envision scenarios where the UAV can be recharged along the way either by landing on stationary recharging stations or on Unmanned Ground Vehicles (UGVs) acting as mobile recharging stations. This leads to a new variant of the Traveling Salesperson Problem (TSP). We present an algorithm that finds not only the order in which to visit the sites but also when and where to land on the charging stations to recharge. Our algorithm plans tours for the UGVs as well as determines best locations to place stationary charging stations. While the problems we study are NP-Hard, we present a practical solution using Generalized TSP that finds the optimal solution. If the UGVs are slower, the algorithm also finds the minimum number of UGVs required to support the UAV mission such that the UAV is not required to wait for the UGV. Our simulation results show that the running time is acceptable for reasonably sized instances.


Title: Topological Multi-Robot Belief Space Planning in Unknown Environments
Key Words: Bayes methods  graph theory  multi-robot systems  path planning  topology  graph pruning  topological properties  factor graphs  topological space  embedded state space  high-dimensional state spaces  announced path approach  topological multirobot belief space planning  BSP approaches  factor graph representation  posterior beliefs  Planning  Robot kinematics  Simultaneous localization and mapping  Linear programming  Aerospace electronics 
Abstract: In this paper we introduce a novel concept, topological belief space planning (BSP), that uses topological properties of the underlying factor graph representation of future posterior beliefs to direct the search for an optimal solution. This concept deviates from state-of-the-art BSP approaches and is motivated by recent results which indicated, in the context of graph pruning, that topological properties of factor graphs dominantly determine the estimation accuracy. Topological space is also often less dimensional than the embedded state space. In particular, we show how this novel concept can be used in multi-robot belief space planning in high-dimensional state spaces to overcome drawbacks of state-of-the-art approaches: computational intractability of an exhaustive objective evaluation for all candidate path combinations from different robots and dependence on the initial guess in the announced path approach, which can lead to a local minimum of the objective function. We demonstrate our approach in a synthetic simulation.


Title: Straight-Leg Walking Through Underconstrained Whole-Body Control
Key Words: humanoid robots  legged locomotion  quadratic programming  reachability analysis  robot kinematics  straight-leg walking  whole-body control  natural gait  bipedal robots  straightened legs  complex height planning  whole-body controller  straightest possible leg configuration  run-time  controller solutions  leg joint angle objectives  null-space  quadratic program motion objectives  toe-off motion  kinematic reachability  Legged locomotion  Iterative closest point algorithm  Trajectory  Planning  Acceleration  Foot 
Abstract: We present an approach for achieving a natural, efficient gait on bipedal robots using straightened legs and toe-off. Our algorithm avoids complex height planning by allowing a whole-body controller to determine the straightest possible leg configuration at run-time. The controller solutions are biased towards a straight leg configuration by projecting leg joint angle objectives into the null-space of the other quadratic program motion objectives. To allow the legs to remain straight throughout the gait, toe-off was utilized to increase the kinematic reachability of the legs. The toe-off motion is achieved through underconstraining the foot position, allowing it to emerge naturally. We applied this approach of under-specifying the motion objectives to the Atlas humanoid, allowing it to walk over a variety of terrain. We present both experimental and simulation results and discuss performance limitations and potential improvements.


Title: Robust Rough-Terrain Locomotion with a Quadrupedal Robot
Key Words: collision avoidance  legged locomotion  mobile robots  motion control  optimisation  path planning  pose estimation  robot dynamics  robot kinematics  terrain mapping  robust rough-terrain locomotion  natural settings  industrial settings  motion planner  perceptive rough-terrain locomotion  safe footholds  collision-free swing-leg motions  acquired terrain map  optimization approach  significant obstacles  quadrupedal robot ANYmal  locomotion planner  dynamic environments  urban settings  pose optimization approach  Legged locomotion  Robot sensing systems  Planning  Collision avoidance  Surface treatment 
Abstract: Robots working in natural, urban, and industrial settings need to be able to navigate challenging environments. In this paper, we present a motion planner for the perceptive rough-terrain locomotion with quadrupedal robots. The planner finds safe footholds along with collision-free swing-leg motions by leveraging an acquired terrain map. To this end, we present a novel pose optimization approach that enables the robot to climb over significant obstacles. We experimentally validate our approach with the quadrupedal robot ANYmal by autonomously traversing obstacles such steps, inclines, and stairs. The locomotion planner re-plans the motion at every step to cope with disturbances and dynamic environments. The robot has no prior knowledge of the scene, and all mapping, state estimation, control, and planning is performed in real-time onboard the robot.


Title: On Time Optimization of Centroidal Momentum Dynamics
Key Words: angular momentum  concave programming  convex programming  humanoid robots  minimisation  mobile robots  path planning  position control  robot dynamics  time optimal control  fixed timing  motion plans  timing optimization  nonconvex problem  time-optimized dynamically consistent trajectories  centroidal dynamics  time variables  nonconvexity  contact forces  momentum trajectories  convex relaxation  trajectory optimization techniques  multicontact scenarios  dynamically consistent motions  centroidal momentum dynamics  Optimization  Dynamics  Robots  Kinematics  Torque  Mathematical model  Trajectory 
Abstract: Recently, the centroidal momentum dynamics has received substantial attention to plan dynamically consistent motions for robots with arms and legs in multi-contact scenarios. However, it is also non convex which renders any optimization approach difficult and timing is usually kept fixed in most trajectory optimization techniques to not introduce additional non convexities to the problem. But this can limit the versatility of the algorithms. In our previous work, we proposed a convex relaxation of the problem that allowed to efficiently compute momentum trajectories and contact forces. However, our approach could not minimize a desired angular momentum objective which seriously limited its applicability. Noticing that the non-convexity introduced by the time variables is of similar nature as the centroidal dynamics one, we propose two convex relaxations to the problem based on trust regions and soft constraints. The resulting approaches can compute time-optimized dynamically consistent trajectories sufficiently fast to make the approach realtime capable. The performance of the algorithm is demonstrated in several multi-contact scenarios for a humanoid robot. In particular, we show that the proposed convex relaxation of the original problem finds solutions that are consistent with the original non-convex problem and illustrate how timing optimization allows to find motion plans that would be difficult to plan with fixed timing ††Implementation details and demos can be found in the source code available at https://git-amd.tuebingen.mpg.de/bponton/timeoptimization.


Title: Learning Human-Aware Path Planning with Fully Convolutional Networks
Key Words: convolution  feedforward neural nets  learning (artificial intelligence)  mobile robots  navigation  path planning  random processes  trees (mathematics)  robot social navigation  Fully Convolutional Neural Networks  mobile robots  human-aware path planning learning  optimal Rapidly-exploring Random Tree planner  robot navigation  classification problem  Robots  Navigation  Task analysis  Trajectory  Cost function  Feature extraction 
Abstract: This work presents an approach to learn path planning for robot social navigation by demonstration. We make use of Fully Convolutional Neural Networks (FCNs) to learn from expert's path demonstrations a map that marks a feasible path to the goal as a classification problem. The use of FCNs allows us to overcome the problem of manually designing/identifying the cost-map and relevant features for the task of robot navigation. The method makes use of optimal Rapidly-exploring Random Tree planner (RRT*) to overcome eventual errors in the path prediction; the FCNs prediction is used as cost-map and also to partially bias the sampling of the configuration space, leading the planner to behave similarly to the learned expert behavior. The approach is evaluated in experiments with real trajectories and compared with Inverse Reinforcement Learning algorithms that use RRT* as underlying planner.


Title: Pedestrian Prediction by Planning Using Deep Neural Networks
Key Words: collision avoidance  convolution  learning (artificial intelligence)  mobile robots  neural nets  pedestrians  traffic engineering computing  monolithic neural network  inverse reinforcement learning  pedestrian prediction  deep neural networks  collision avoidance  autonomous vehicles  goal-directed planning  mixture density function  motion prediction  convolutional network  traffic participant prediction  trajectories  Planning  Network topology  Topology  Convolution  Learning (artificial intelligence)  Trajectory  Prediction algorithms 
Abstract: Accurate traffic participant prediction is the prerequisite for collision avoidance of autonomous vehicles. In this work, we propose to predict pedestrians using goal-directed planning. For this, we infer a mixture density function for possible destinations. We use these destinations as the goal states of a planning stage that performs motion prediction based on common behavior patterns. The patterns are learned by a fully convolutional network operating on maps of the environment. We show that this entire system can be modeled as one monolithic neural network and trained via inverse reinforcement learning. Experimental validation on real world data shows the system's ability to predict both, destinations and trajectories accurately.


Title: A Data-driven Model for Interaction-Aware Pedestrian Motion Prediction in Object Cluttered Environments
Key Words: collision avoidance  learning (artificial intelligence)  mobile robots  motion estimation  navigation  neural nets  pedestrians  human motion behavior  prediction accuracy  data-driven model  interaction-aware pedestrian motion prediction  object cluttered environments  interaction-aware motion prediction approach  human navigation behavior  Long-Short Term Memory neural networks  static obstacles  trajectory forecasting  polar angle space  Predictive models  Robots  Trajectory  Adaptation models  Navigation  Planning  Neural networks 
Abstract: This paper reports on a data-driven, interaction-aware motion prediction approach for pedestrians in environments cluttered with static obstacles. When navigating in such workspaces shared with humans, robots need accurate motion predictions of the surrounding pedestrians. Human navigation behavior is mostly influenced by their surrounding pedestrians and by the static obstacles in their vicinity. In this paper we introduce a new model based on Long-Short Term Memory (LSTM) neural networks, which is able to learn human motion behavior from demonstrated data. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first approach using LSTMs, that incorporates both static obstacles and surrounding pedestrians for trajectory forecasting. As part of the model, we introduce a new way of encoding surrounding pedestrians based on a 1d-grid in polar angle space. We evaluate the benefit of interaction-aware motion prediction and the added value of incorporating static obstacles on both simulation and real-world datasets by comparing with state-of-the-art approaches. The results show, that our new approach outperforms the other approaches while being very computationally efficient and that taking into account static obstacles for motion predictions significantly improves the prediction accuracy, especially in cluttered environments.


Title: Automated Process for Incorporating Drivable Path into Real-Time Semantic Segmentation
Key Words: cameras  image segmentation  mobile robots  object detection  path planning  road traffic  road vehicles  robot vision  path prediction model  camera sensors  autonomous vehicle systems  vision systems  real-time semantic segmentation  intelligent vehicles  odometry  monocular camera  car-width drivable lane  path proposal category  intelligent vehicle system  drivable path information  human operation  clear lane markings  urban roads  Semantics  Cameras  Roads  Image segmentation  Sensors  Proposals  Trajectory 
Abstract: Vision systems are widely used in autonomous vehicle systems due to the rich information that camera sensors provide of the surrounding environment. This paper presents an automatic algorithm to obtain the drivable path of a vehicle operating in urban roads with or without clear lane markings. The developed system projects trajectories obtained during human operation of the vehicle and utilizes these to generate automatic labels for training a semantic based path prediction model. The system segments an urban scenario into 13 categories including vehicles, pedestrian, undrivable road, other categories relevant to urban roads, and a new class for a path proposal. The drivable path information is essential particularly in unstructured scenarios, and is critical for an intelligent vehicle system to make sound driving decisions. The path proposal category is a car-width drivable lane estimated to be safe to drive for the vehicle under consideration. The data collection, model training and inference process requires only images from a monocular camera and odometry from a low-cost IMU combined with a wheel encoder. The algorithm has been successfully demonstrated on the Sydney University campus, which is a challenging environment without clear road markings. The algorithm was demonstrated to run in real-time, proving its applicability for intelligent vehicles.


Title: Surface Edge Explorer (see): Planning Next Best Views Directly from 3D Observations
Key Words: computational geometry  feature extraction  image reconstruction  mesh generation  solid modelling  Surface Edge Explorer  Best View planning  NBV planning approaches  voxel grids  triangulated meshes  surface geometry  high-resolution models  Surface representations  multiple survey stages  scene-model-free NBV planning approach  density representation  current measurements  observed surface boundaries  surface coverage  evaluated state-of-the-art volumetric approaches  Next Best views  time 3.0 d  Planning  Computational modeling  Density measurement  Geometry  Surface treatment  Three-dimensional displays 
Abstract: Surveying 3D scenes is a common task in robotics. Systems can do so autonomously by iteratively obtaining measurements. This process of planning observations to improve the model of a scene is called Next Best View (NBV) planning. NBV planning approaches often use either volumetric (e.g., voxel grids) or surface (e.g., triangulated meshes) representations. Volumetric approaches generalise well between scenes as they do not depend on surface geometry but do not scale to high-resolution models of large scenes. Surface representations can obtain high-resolution models at any scale but often require tuning of unintuitive parameters or multiple survey stages. This paper presents a scene-model-free NBV planning approach with a density representation. The Surface Edge Explorer (SEE) uses the density of current measurements to detect and explore observed surface boundaries. This approach is shown experimentally to provide better surface coverage in lower computation time than the evaluated state-of-the-art volumetric approaches while moving equivalent distances.


Title: Active Image-Based Modeling with a Toy Drone
Key Words: autonomous aerial vehicles  data acquisition  image reconstruction  image sensors  solid modelling  stereo image processing  iterative linear method  multiview stereo problem  online model reconstruction  toy unmanned aerial vehicle  data acquisition  toy drone  image-based modeling techniques  photo-realistic 3D models  multi-view stereo algorithm  active image-based modeling  Three-dimensional displays  Image reconstruction  Solid modeling  Unmanned aerial vehicles  Planning  Pipelines  Cameras 
Abstract: Image-based modeling techniques [1]-[3] can now generate photo-realistic 3D models from images. But it is up to users to provide high quality images with good coverage and view overlap, which makes the data capturing process tedious and time consuming. We seek to automate data capturing for image-based modeling. The core of our system is an iterative linear method to solve the multi-view stereo (MVS) problem quickly and plan the Next-Best-View (NBV) effectively. Our fast MVS algorithm enables online model reconstruction and quality assessment to determine the NBVs on the fly. We test our system with a toy unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV) in simulated, indoor and outdoor experiments. Results show that our system improves the efficiency of data acquisition and ensures the completeness of the final model.


Title: Configuration of Perception Systems via Planning Over Factor Graphs
Key Words: assembling  graph theory  planning (artificial intelligence)  production engineering computing  sensor fusion  sensors  perception systems  factor graph  automated systems  data processing algorithms  sensor noise  calibration errors  planning problem  probabilistic graphical models  configuration space  perceptions systems  perception steps  sensor data fusion  industrial assembly  Task analysis  Planning  Robot sensing systems  Uncertainty  Semantics  Cameras  Probabilistic logic 
Abstract: Sensor guided, automated systems require the composition of various sensors and data processing algorithms to obtain relevant information for performing their task. Many applications have additional requirements such as a certain accuracy, which has to be achieved despite sensor noise and calibration errors. In this paper we model the configuration of perception systems as a planning problem over probabilistic graphical models. We work on a subset of the full configuration space of perceptions systems, specifically the used sensors, data processing algorithms and view poses. Based on a semantic description of the goal, available sensors and data processing algorithms, our system plans perception steps and sensor data fusion autonomously. The planner operates by constructing a factor graph until the accuracy requirements of tasks are fulfilled or unobtainable with the available action set. We validate our approach in an industrial assembly scenario.


Title: Intelligent Shipwreck Search Using Autonomous Underwater Vehicles
Key Words: archaeology  autonomous underwater vehicles  control engineering computing  image processing  intelligent control  marine control  mobile robots  path planning  sonar  archaeological survey  intelligent shipwreck search  autonomous underwater vehicles  autonomous robot system  multistep pipeline  high altitude scan  low-resolution side scan sonar data  image processing software  AUV path planner  archaeological sites  underwater archaeological sites  ranking algorithm  Sonar  Proposals  Clustering algorithms  Pipelines  Feature extraction  Software 
Abstract: This paper presents an autonomous robot system that is designed to autonomously search for and geo-localize potential underwater archaeological sites. The system, based on Autonomous Underwater Vehicles, invokes a multi-step pipeline. First, the AUV constructs a high altitude scan over a large area to collect low-resolution side scan sonar data. Second, image processing software is employed to automatically detect and identify potential sites of interest. Third, a ranking algorithm assigns importance scores to each site. Fourth, an AUV path planner is used to plan a time-limited path that visits sites with a high importance at a low altitude to acquire high-resolution sonar data. Last, the AUV is deployed to follow this path. This system was implemented and evaluated during an archaeological survey located along the coast of Malta. These experiments demonstrated that the system is able to identify valuable archaeological sites accurately and efficiently in a large previously unsurveyed area. Also, the planned missions led to the discovery of a historical plane wreck whose location was previously unknown.


Title: Gaussian Process Adaptive Sampling Using the Cross-Entropy Method for Environmental Sensing and Monitoring
Key Words: bathymetry  entropy  Gaussian processes  learning (artificial intelligence)  mobile robots  optimisation  path planning  sampling methods  single ROI  deepest region  coastal bathymetry mapping mission validate  efficient sampling strategy  latest sensory measurements  sampling density  CE trajectory optimization  higher spatial variability  exhibit extreme sensory measurements  exploring learning  initial stage  path planning  GP-UCB  GP upper confidence  receding-horizon Cross-Entropy trajectory optimization  environmental sensing  cross-entropy method  Gaussian process adaptive sampling  Robot sensing systems  Adaptation models  Optimization  Predictive models  Trajectory  Uncertainty 
Abstract: In this paper, we focus on adaptive sampling on a Gaussian Processes (GP) using the receding-horizon Cross-Entropy (CE) trajectory optimization. Specifically, we employ the GP upper confidence bound (GP-UCB) as the optimization criteria to adaptively plan sampling paths that balance the exploitation-exploration trade-off. Path planning at the initial stage focuses on exploring and learning a model of the environment, and later, on exploiting the learned model to focus sampling around regions that exhibit extreme sensory measurements and much higher spatial variability, denoted as the Region of Interest (ROI). The integration of the CE trajectory optimization allows the sampling density to be dynamically adjusted based on the latest sensory measurements, thus providing an efficient sampling strategy for sensing and localizing the ROI. We demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed method in exploring simulated scalar fields with single or multiple ROIs. Field experiments with an Unmanned Surface Vehicle (USV) in a coastal bathymetry mapping mission validate the approach's capability in quickly exploring and mapping the given area, and then focusing and increasing the sampling density around the deepest region, as a surrogate for e.g. the extremal concentration of a pollutant in the environment.


Title: Applying Asynchronous Deep Classification Networks and Gaming Reinforcement Learning-Based Motion Planners to Mobile Robots
Key Words: control engineering computing  game theory  learning (artificial intelligence)  mobile robots  neural nets  path planning  pattern classification  gaming reinforcement learning-based motion planner  mobile robotic platform  deep classifier  asynchronous deep classification network  visual recognition  motion planning  deep learning-based algorithms  TT2-bot  embedded neural networks  Mobile robots  Learning (artificial intelligence)  Machine learning  Neural networks  Sensors  Training 
Abstract: In this paper, we propose a new methodology to embed deep learning-based algorithms in both visual recognition and motion planning for general mobile robotic platforms. A framework for an asynchronous deep classification network is introduced to integrate heavy deep classification networks into a mobile robot with no loss of system bandwidth. Moreover, a gaming reinforcement learning-based motion planner, a novel and convenient embodiment of reinforcement learning, is introduced for simple implementation and high applicability. The proposed approaches are implemented and evaluated on a developed robot, TT2-bot. The evaluation was based on a mission devised for a qualitative evaluation of the general purposes and performances of a mobile robotic platform. The robot was required to recognize targets with a deep classifier and plan the path effectively using a deep motion planner. As a result, the robot verified that the proposed approaches successfully integrate deep learning technologies on the stand-alone mobile robot. The embedded neural networks for recognition and path planning were critical components for the robot.


Title: Learning with Training Wheels: Speeding up Training with a Simple Controller for Deep Reinforcement Learning
Key Words: collision avoidance  learning (artificial intelligence)  mobile robots  three-term control  DRL network  standard Deep Deterministic Policy Gradient network  training wheels  deep reinforcement learning  robotic applications  robot applications  Assisted Reinforcement Learning  PID controller  local planning  navigation problems  simple control law  Training  Navigation  Acceleration  Robot kinematics  Machine learning  Task analysis 
Abstract: Deep Reinforcement Learning (DRL) has been applied successfully to many robotic applications. However, the large number of trials needed for training is a key issue. Most of existing techniques developed to improve training efficiency (e.g. imitation) target on general tasks rather than being tailored for robot applications, which have their specific context to benefit from. We propose a novel framework, Assisted Reinforcement Learning, where a classical controller (e.g. a PID controller) is used as an alternative, switchable policy to speed up training of DRL for local planning and navigation problems. The core idea is that the simple control law allows the robot to rapidly learn sensible primitives, like driving in a straight line, instead of random exploration. As the actor network becomes more advanced, it can then take over to perform more complex actions, like obstacle avoidance. Eventually, the simple controller can be discarded entirely. We show that not only does this technique train faster, it also is less sensitive to the structure of the DRL network and consistently outperforms a standard Deep Deterministic Policy Gradient network. We demonstrate the results in both simulation and real-world experiments.


Title: Coordinated Dense Aerial Traffic with Self-Driving Drones
Key Words: air traffic control  autonomous aerial vehicles  collision avoidance  decentralised control  multi-robot systems  coordinated dense aerial traffic  general air traffic control solution  decentralized air traffic control solution  package-delivery scenarios  intelligent collective collision avoidance  motion planning  jam-free optimal traffic flow  force-based distributed multirobot control model  behaviour-driven velocity alignment  self-organized queueing  conflict-avoiding self-driving  Drones  Mathematical model  Atmospheric modeling  Oscillators  Acceleration  Task analysis  Roads 
Abstract: In this paper we present a general, decentralized air traffic control solution using autonomous drones. We challenge some of the most difficult dense traffic situations, namely, crosswalk and package-delivery scenarios, where intelligent collective collision avoidance and motion planning is essential for a jam-free optimal traffic flow. We build up a force-based distributed multi-robot control model using a tunable selection of interaction terms: anisotropic repulsion, behaviour-driven velocity alignment, self-organized queueing and conflict-avoiding self-driving. We optimize the model with evolution in a realistic simulation framework and demonstrate its applicability with 30 autonomous drones in a coordinated outdoor flight within a densely packed virtual arena.


Title: Near-Optimal Adversarial Policy Switching for Decentralized Asynchronous Multi-Agent Systems
Key Words: decision making  multi-agent systems  multi-robot systems  planning (artificial intelligence)  multirobot  small-scale synchronous decision-making scenarios  asynchronous agents  multiple strategic adversaries  adversary strategies  optimized stratagems  unified policy  near-optimality  optimal adversarial policy switching  decentralized asynchronous multiagent systems  communication capabilities  Switches  Planning  Task analysis  Robot kinematics  Probabilistic logic 
Abstract: A key challenge in multi-robot and multi-agent systems is generating solutions that are robust to other self-interested or even adversarial parties who actively try to prevent the agents from achieving their goals. The practicality of existing works addressing this challenge is limited to only small-scale synchronous decision-making scenarios or a single agent planning its best response against a single adversary with fixed, procedurally characterized strategies. In contrast this paper considers a more realistic class of problems where a team of asynchronous agents with limited observation and communication capabilities need to compete against multiple strategic adversaries with changing strategies. This problem necessitates agents that can coordinate to detect changes in adversary strategies and plan the best response accordingly. Our approach first optimizes a set of stratagems that represent these best responses. These optimized stratagems are then integrated into a unified policy that can detect and respond when the adversaries change their strategies. The near-optimality of the proposed framework is established theoretically as well as demonstrated empirically in simulation and hardware.


Title: Human-in-the-Loop Mixed-Initiative Control Under Temporal Tasks
Key Words: control engineering computing  human-robot interaction  learning (artificial intelligence)  mobile robots  motion control  path planning  planning (artificial intelligence)  temporal logic  plan adaptation scheme  short-term tasks  iterative inverse reinforcement learning algorithm  human preference  plan synthesis  human-in-the-loop simulations  mixed-initiative control  motion control  task planning problem  mobile robots  high-level tasks  Linear Temporal Logic  hard constraints  soft constraints  robot autonomy  additive terms  contingent task assignments  online coordination scheme  mixed-initiative continuous controller  temporal tasks  human initiatives  Task analysis  Safety  Robot kinematics  Automata  Planning  Navigation 
Abstract: This paper considers the motion control and task planning problem of mobile robots under complex high-level tasks and human initiatives. The assigned task is specified as Linear Temporal Logic (LTL) formulas that consist of hard and soft constraints. The human initiative influences the robot autonomy in two explicit ways: with additive terms in the continuous controller and with contingent task assignments. We propose an online coordination scheme that encapsulates (i) a mixed-initiative continuous controller that ensures all-time safety despite of possible human errors, (ii) a plan adaptation scheme that accommodates new features discovered in the workspace and short-term tasks assigned by the operator during run time, and (iii) an iterative inverse reinforcement learning (IRL) algorithm that allows the robot to asymptotically learn the human preference on the parameters during the plan synthesis. The results are demonstrated by both realistic human-in-the-loop simulations and experiments.


Title: Optimized Environment Exploration for Autonomous Underwater Vehicles
Key Words: autonomous underwater vehicles  image reconstruction  mobile robots  path planning  quadtrees  tree data structures  viewpoint generation process  consistent maps  noisy sonar data  optimized environment exploration  autonomous underwater  autonomous robotic environment exploration  underwater domain  noisy acoustic sensors  high localization error  control disturbances  robotic exploration algorithm  underwater vehicles  view planning  path planning algorithms  exploration approach  quadtree data structure  relevant queries  natural environments  underwater maps  map representation  optical coverage  time 3.0 d  Cameras  Sonar  Planning  Robot sensing systems  Inspection  Three-dimensional displays 
Abstract: Achieving full autonomous robotic environment exploration in the underwater domain is very challenging, mainly due to noisy acoustic sensors, high localization error, control disturbances of the water and lack of accurate underwater maps. In this work we present a robotic exploration algorithm for underwater vehicles that does not rely on prior information about the environment. Our method has been greatly influenced by many robotic exploration, view planning and path planning algorithms. The proposed method constitutes a significant improvement over our previous work [1]: Firstly, we refine our exploration approach to improve robustness; Secondly, we propose an alternative map representation based on the quadtree data structure that allows different relevant queries to be performed efficiently, reducing the computational cost of the viewpoint generation process; Thirdly, we present an algorithm that is capable of generating consistent maps even when noisy sonar data is used. The aforementioned contributions have increased the reliability of the algorithm, allowing new real experiments performed in artificial structures but also in more challenging natural environments, from which we provide a 3D reconstruction to show that with this algorithm full optical coverage is obtained.


Title: Pilot Surveys for Adaptive Informative Sampling
Key Words: aerospace control  environmental factors  Gaussian processes  mobile robots  path planning  regression analysis  sampling methods  sampling trajectory  Gaussian Process regression  pilot surveys  adaptive informative sampling  GP hyperparameter estimation  path planning decisions  environmental field modeling  informative samples  adaptive sampling techniques  GP regression  Adaptation models  Data models  Kernel  Robots  Gaussian processes  Estimation  Optimization 
Abstract: Adaptive sampling has been shown to be an effective method for modeling environmental fields, such as algae concentrations in the ocean. In adaptive sampling, a robot adapts its sampling trajectory based on data that it is collecting. This data is often aggregated into models, using techniques such as Gaussian Process (G P) regression. The (hyper-)parameters for these models need to be manually set or, ideally, estimated from data. For GP regression, hyperparameters are typically estimated using prior data. This paper addresses the case where initial hyperparameters need to be estimated, but no prior data is available. Without prior data or accurately pre-defined hyperparameters, adaptive sampling techniques may fail, because there is no good model to base path planning decisions on. One method of gathering data is to perform a pilot survey. This survey needs to select informative samples for initiating the model, but without having a model to determine where best to sample. In this work, we evaluate four pilot surveys, which use a softmax function on the distance between waypoints and previously sampled data for waypoint selection. Simulation results show that pilot surveys that maximize waypoint spread over randomization lead to more stable estimation of GP hyperparameters, and create accurate models more quickly.


Title: Q-CP: Learning Action Values for Cooperative Planning
Key Words: iterative methods  learning (artificial intelligence)  learning systems  mobile robots  Monte Carlo methods  multi-robot systems  navigation  path planning  state-space methods  stochastic games  tree searching  uncertain systems  multirobot systems  manifold applications  unstructured scenarios  state dimensionality  model-based reinforcement learning algorithm  Q-learning  curse-of-dimensionality  cooperation scenario  mobile robots  robot behaviors  uncertainties  state space exploration  action values learning  stochastic cooperative games  cooperative navigation problem  cooperative planning  Monte-Carlo tree search iterations  general-sum games  KUKA YouBots  robot hand-overs  coordination task  Robot kinematics  Games  Monte Carlo methods  Task analysis  Planning  Stochastic processes 
Abstract: Research on multi-robot systems has demonstrated promising results in manifold applications and domains. Still, efficiently learning an effective robot behaviors is very difficult, due to unstructured scenarios, high uncertainties, and large state dimensionality (e.g, hyper-redundant and groups of robot). To alleviate this problem, we present Q-CP a cooperative model-based reinforcement learning algorithm, which exploits action values to both (1) guide the exploration of the state space and (2) generate effective policies. Specifically, we exploit Q-learning to attack the curse-of-dimensionality in the iterations of a Monte-Carlo Tree Search. We implement and evaluate Q-CP on different stochastic cooperative (general-sum) games: (1) a simple cooperative navigation problem among 3 robots, (2) a cooperation scenario between a pair of KUKA YouBots performing hand-overs, and (3) a coordination task between two mobile robots entering a door. The obtained results show the effectiveness of Q- CP in the chosen applications, where action values drive the exploration and reduce the computational demand of the planning process while achieving good performance.


Title: Sparse Gaussian Processes on Matrix Lie Groups: A Unified Framework for Optimizing Continuous-Time Trajectories
Key Words: continuous time systems  Gaussian processes  Lie groups  matrix algebra  mobile robots  motion control  optimisation  path planning  regression analysis  state estimation  trajectory control  nonparametric representation  trajectory distributions  sparse GP regression  robot state  locally linear GPs  state estimation  motion planning tasks  sparse Gaussian processes  continuous-time trajectories  trajectory optimization  matrix Lie groups  robot motion reasoning  Trajectory  Simultaneous localization and mapping  Estimation  Planning  Sparse matrices  Gaussian processes 
Abstract: Continuous-time trajectories are useful for reasoning about robot motion in a wide range of tasks. Sparse Gaussian processes (GPs) can be used as a non-parametric representation for trajectory distributions that enables fast trajectory optimization by sparse GP regression. However, most previous approaches that utilize sparse GPs for trajectory optimization are limited by the fact that the robot state is represented in vector space. In this paper, we first extend previous works to consider the state on general matrix Lie groups by applying a constant-velocity prior and defining locally linear GPs. Next, we discuss how sparse GPs on Lie groups provide a unified continuous-time framework for trajectory optimization for solving a number of robotics problems including state estimation and motion planning. Finally, we demonstrate and evaluate our approach on several different estimation and motion planning tasks with both synthetic and real-world experiments.


Title: Radiation Source Localization in GPS-Denied Environments Using Aerial Robots
Key Words: gamma-ray detection  Global Positioning System  mobile robots  photomultipliers  radioactive sources  radioactivity measurement  solid scintillation detectors  radiation measurements  radioactive source localization  radiation mapping  thallium-doped cesium iodide scintillator  indoor GPS-denied environments  Cesium-137 radiation source  GPS-denied localization  visual-inertial localization  autonomous nuclear radiation source localization  aerial robot  Scintillators  Calibration  Robot sensing systems  Detectors  Unmanned aerial vehicles  Radiation detectors 
Abstract: This paper details the system and methods developed to enable autonomous nuclear radiation source localization and mapping using aerial robots in GPS-denied environments. A Thallium-doped Cesium Iodide (CsI(Tl)) scintillator and a Silicon Photomultiplier are combined with custom-built electronics for counting and spectroscopy, and the provided radiation measurements are pose-annotated using visual-inertial localization enabling autonomous operation in GPS-denied environments. Provided this capability, a strategy for radioactive source localization, as well as active source search path planning was developed. The proposed method is motivated and accounts for the limited endurance of the vehicle, which entails a very small amount of dwell points, and the fact that GPS-denied localization implies varying uncertainty of the robot's position estimate. The complete system is evaluated in multiple experimental studies using a small aerial robot and a Cesium-137 radiation source. As shown, accurate radioactive source localization is achieved, enabling efficient radiation mapping of indoor GPS-denied environments.


Title: Distributed Real Time Control of Multiple UAVs in Adversarial Environment: Algorithm and Flight Testing Results
Key Words: aircraft control  autonomous aerial vehicles  game theory  helicopters  mobile robots  multi-robot systems  optimal control  path planning  trajectory control  multiple quadrotors  flag game  distributed trajectory planning algorithm  WiFi based communication infrastructure  autopilot modules  low power computing modules  suboptimal control action  adversarial game  Gazebo robot simulator  multiple UAVs  quadrotor platform  flight testing  robot operating system  ROS  Games  Software algorithms  Software  Hardware  Real-time systems  Testing  Computational modeling 
Abstract: We present a complete design and implementation of a system that consists of multiple quadrotors playing capture the flag game. Our main contributions in this work include a custom built quadrotor platform, an efficient implementation of a distributed trajectory planning algorithm, and a WiFi based communication infrastructure. In our design, we equip the quadrotors with autopilot modules for low level control. Moreover, we install low power computing modules for implementing the distributed trajectory planning algorithm online. Furthermore, we develop a communication infrastructure to enable coordination among the quadrotors, which is required for computing a suboptimal control action in real time. The interactions among all the hardware and software components are managed at a higher level by Robot Operating System (ROS). To test the performance of the system, we select a motivating setup of capture the flag game, which is an adversarial game played between two teams of agents called attack and defense. The system is initially simulated in the Gazebo robot simulator with software in the loop. Finally, the complete system is tested and the flight testing results are presented.


Title: BFM: a Scalable and Resource-Aware Method for Adaptive Mission Planning of UAVs
Key Words: autonomous aerial vehicles  belief networks  decision making  embedded systems  Markov processes  planning  quality of service  target tracking  diagnosis modules  Bayesian Networks  mission specifications  Markov Decision Processes  BFM model  application configurations  embedded system level  UAV level  target tracking mission  applications specifications  MDP model  embedded applications  resource-aware method  adaptive mission planning  external hazards  FMEA tables  scalable model  modular method  decision making process  UAV  internal hazards  Quality of service  Target tracking  Monitoring  Computational modeling  Sensor systems and applications  Context modeling 
Abstract: UAVs must continuously adapt their mission to face unexpected internal or external hazards. This paper proposes a new BFM model (Bayesian Networks built from FMEA tables for MDP). This scalable model offers a modular and comprehensive method to incorporate different types of diagnosis modules based on BN (Bayesian Networks) and FMEA table (Failure Mode and Effects Analysis) to mission specifications expressed as a MDP (Markov Decision Processes). The BFM model implements the complete decision making process that covers both the application configurations at the embedded system level and the mission planning at the UAV level. These decisions are based on the QoS (Quality of Service) of applications, the resource use and the system and sensors health. We demonstrate on a case study for a target tracking mission that the BFM model can interface hazards and applications specifications and can improve the success and quality of the mission. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first proposal of a systematic method that integrates diagnosis modules to MDP model in order to take care of the implementation of embedded applications during a mission.


Title: Simultaneous Optimization of Assignments and Goal Formations for Multiple Robots
Key Words: approximation theory  computational complexity  graph theory  multi-robot systems  optimisation  path planning  O(n3) time complexity  optimal assignments  multiple robots  fixed goal formations  standard assignment problem  transformed problem  formation parameters  linear sum assignment problem  variable goal formation problem  location parameters  Collision avoidance  Robot kinematics  Trajectory  Shape  Cost function 
Abstract: This paper presents algorithms to simultaneously compute the optimal assignments and formation parameters for a team of robots from a given initial formation to a variable goal formation (where the shape of the goal formation is given, and its scale and location parameters must be optimized). We assume the n robots are identical spheres. We use the sum of squared travel distances as the objective function to be minimized, which also ensures that the trajectories are collision free. We show that this assignment with variable goal formation problem can be transformed to a linear sum assignment problem (LSAP) with pseudo costs that we establish are independent of the formation parameters. The transformed problem can then be solved using the Hungarian algorithm in O(n3) time. Thus the assignment problem with variable goal formations using this new approach has the same O(n3) time complexity as the standard assignment problem with fixed goal formations. Results from simulations on 200 and 600 robots are presented to show the algorithm is sufficiently fast for practical applications.


Title: Perception-Informed Autonomous Environment Augmentation with Modular Robots
Key Words: collision avoidance  mobile robots  planning (artificial intelligence)  high-level planner  disconnected regions  hardware experiments  planning tools  robot locomotion capabilities  specially-designed building blocks  environment characterization algorithm  modular robot systems  building structures  high-level tasks  perception-informed autonomous environment augmentation  Task analysis  Hardware  Mobile robots  Bridges  Buildings  Planning 
Abstract: We present a system enabling a modular robot to autonomously build structures in order to accomplish high-level tasks. Building structures allows the robot to surmount large obstacles, expanding the set of tasks it can perform. This addresses a common weakness of modular robot systems, which often struggle to traverse large obstacles. This paper presents the hardware, perception, and planning tools that comprise our system. An environment characterization algorithm identifies features in the environment that can be augmented to create a path between two disconnected regions of the environment. Specially-designed building blocks enable the robot to create structures that can augment the environment to make obstacles traversable. A high-level planner reasons about the task, robot locomotion capabilities, and environment to decide if and where to augment the environment in order to perform the desired task. We validate our system in hardware experiments.


Title: Grasp Planning for Load Sharing in Collaborative Manipulation
Key Words: dexterous manipulators  force control  grippers  human-robot interaction  industrial manipulators  lifting  manipulators  collaborative manipulation  manipulation task  grasp location  human robot collaborative lifting task  grasp planning  grasp analysis approach  load sharing  partial observability  two-agent decentralized set-up  Task analysis  Robot kinematics  Planning  Collaboration  Force  Quadratic programming 
Abstract: In near future, robots are envisioned to work alongside humans in unstructured professional and domestic environments. In such setups, collaborative manipulation is a fundamental skill that allows manipulation of heavy loads by load sharing between agents. Grasp planning plays a pivotal role for load sharing but it has not received attention in the literature. This work proposes a grasp analysis approach for collaborative manipulation that allows load sharing by minimizing exerted grasp wrenches in a task specific way. The manipulation task is defined as expected external wrenches acting on the target object. The analysis approach is demonstrated in a two-agent decentralized set-up with unknown objects. After the first agent has grasped the target, the second agent observes the first agent's grasp location and plans its own grasp according to optimal load sharing. The method was verified in a human robot collaborative lifting task. Experiments with multiple objects show that the proposed method results in optimal load sharing despite limited information and partial observability.


Title: Deep Auxiliary Learning for Visual Localization and Odometry
Key Words: distance measurement  feature extraction  learning (artificial intelligence)  neural nets  pose estimation  video signal processing  state-of-the-art SIFT-based approaches  deep learning technique  multitask learning  Geometric Consistency Loss  visual odometry estimation  global localization  parameter sharing  multitask model  consecutive monocular images  VLocNet  convolutional neural networks  action execution  robot  visual localization  Task analysis  Visual odometry  Estimation  Visualization  Training  Robustness 
Abstract: Localization is an indispensable component of a robot's autonomy stack that enables it to determine where it is in the environment, essentially making it a precursor for any action execution or planning. Although convolutional neural networks have shown promising results for visual localization, they are still grossly outperformed by state-of-the-art local feature-based techniques. In this work, we propose VLocNet, a new convolutional neural network architecture for 6-DoF global pose regression and odometry estimation from consecutive monocular images. Our multitask model incorporates hard parameter sharing, thus being compact and enabling real-time inference, in addition to being end-to-end trainable. We propose a novel loss function that utilizes auxiliary learning to leverage relative pose information during training, thereby constraining the search space to obtain consistent pose estimates. We evaluate our proposed VLocNet on indoor as well as outdoor datasets and show that even our single task model exceeds the performance of state-of-the-art deep architectures for global localization, while achieving competitive performance for visual odometry estimation. Furthermore, we present extensive experimental evaluations utilizing our proposed Geometric Consistency Loss that show the effectiveness of multitask learning and demonstrate that our model is the first deep learning technique to be on par with, and in some cases outperforms state-of-the-art SIFT-based approaches.


Title: Reconfiguration Analysis and Motion Planning of a Novel Reconfigurable Mobile Manipulator Torso
Key Words: bars  flexible manipulators  manipulator dynamics  manipulator kinematics  mobile robots  motion control  path planning  position control  reconfiguration analysis  mutual mode transition rules  kinematics model  motion planning  reconfiguration rules  ReConBot  flexible torso  straight bar-shape base  metamorphic kinematic chains  configuration states  reconfigurable mobile manipulator torso  2RER reconfigurable parallel mechanism  transition handling  singularity position  Kinematics  Torso  Mathematical model  Robot kinematics  Planning  Manipulators 
Abstract: A novel 2-RER reconfigurable parallel mechanism (ReConBot) considered as the flexible torso of the mobile manipulator is proposed. This paper deals with the analysis of reconfiguration, kinematics, and motion planning. The ReConBot is composed of straight bar-shape base and moving platforms and two metamorphic kinematic chains (MKC) consisted of a revolute (R) joint, a planar (E) joint, and an R joint in sequence. Firstly, mobility and reconfiguration analysis discuss the conditions and mutual mode transition rules of 12 possible configuration states. And then, the kinematics model covers all states with Cartesian coordinate and axis/angle representations. What's more, the motion planning following the rules of the mode transition is explained and illustrated together with a case study. Furthermore, the method of handling the transition at singularity position is discussed. Finally, the robotic system and its experiments verify the correctness of the theoretical analysis and the validation of reconfiguration rules.


Title: Reactive Magnetic-Field-Inspired Navigation for Non-Holonomic Mobile Robots in Unknown Environments
Key Words: mobile robots  navigation  path planning  TurtleBot mobile robot platform  local sensory information  arbitrary-shaped convex environment  magnetic fields  nonholonomic mobile robot taking inspiration  reactive robot navigation method  unknown environments  nonholonomic mobile robots  reactive magnetic-field-inspired navigation  Robot sensing systems  Collision avoidance  Navigation  Mobile robots  Force  Wires 
Abstract: In this paper, we present a reactive robot navigation method for a non-holonomic mobile robot taking inspiration from the phenomena observed in magnetic fields. The algorithm is shown to be able to guide mobile robots in arbitrary-shaped convex environment without being trapped in local minima by exploiting the local sensory information without priori knowledge about the environment. A preliminary validation study involving simulation of and experiments with a TurtleBot mobile robot platform show the advantage of the proposed method over existing ones.


Title: Aerial Grasping Based on Shape Adaptive Transformation by HALO: Horizontal Plane Transformable Aerial Robot with Closed-Loop Multilinks Structure
Key Words: aerospace control  autonomous aerial vehicles  closed loop systems  mobile robots  optimisation  position control  propellers  closed-loop aerial transformation  aerial grasping  shape adaptive transformation  aerial manipulation  HALO  horizontal plane transformable aerial robot  closed-loop multilinks structure  flight control  serial-link structure  propeller  optimization planning method  Unmanned aerial vehicles  Propellers  Shape  Grasping  Servomotors  Force  End effectors 
Abstract: In this paper, we present the achievement of aerial grasping by shape adaptive transformation to the object shape, using a novel transformable aerial robot called HALO: Horizontal Plane Transformable Aerial Robot with Closed-loop Multilinks Structure. Aerial manipulation is an active research area and using multiple aerial robots is an effective solution for the large size object. However the cooperation is considered that there are some difficulties such as the synchronized flight control and collision with each other. Then, we focus on the transformable aerial robot with two-dimensional multilinks proposed in our previous works, which can transform to the suitable form for the target object and grasp it. However the transformable aerial robot with the serial-link structure could not achieve stable flight in terms of horizontal position and yaw control due to the low rigidity and large inertia in the case of more than 4 links. Thus, first we construct a novel type of multilinks with closed-loop structure to avoid the deformation and a new link module with a tilted propeller for fully-actuated control. Second, we describe transformation method with closed-loop multilinks. Third, we present the optimization planning method for the multilinks form to be adaptive to the two-dimensional shape of the target object. Finally, we present experimental results to demonstrate the feasibility of closed-loop aerial transformation and aerial grasping for the large size object.


Title: ACT: An Autonomous Drone Cinematography System for Action Scenes
Key Words: cinematography  motion estimation  remotely operated vehicles  video cameras  action scenes  aerial filming  autonomous cinematography system  autonomous drone cinematography system  state-of-the-art drone camera system  real-time dynamical camera planning strategy  drone platform  human action  external motion capture systems  drone cinematography systems  aesthetic objectives  Cameras  Drones  Three-dimensional displays  Skeleton  Planning  Robot vision systems  Trajectory 
Abstract: Drones are enabling new forms of cinematography. Aerial filming via drones in action scenes is difficult because it requires users to understand the dynamic scenarios and operate the drone and camera simultaneously. Existing systems allow the user to manually specify the shots and guide the drone to capture footage, while none of them employ aesthetic objectives to automate aerial filming in action scenes. Meanwhile, these drone cinematography systems depend on the external motion capture systems to perceive the human action, which is limited to the indoor environment. In this paper, we propose an Autonomous CinemaTography system “ACT” on the drone platform to address the above the challenges. To our knowledge, this is the first drone camera system which can autonomously capture cinematic shots of action scenes based on limb movements in both indoor and outdoor environments. Our system includes the following novelties. First, we propose an efficient method to extract 3D skeleton points via a stereo camera. Second, we design a real-time dynamical camera planning strategy that fulfills the aesthetic objectives for filming and respects the physical limits of a drone. At the system level, we integrate cameras and GPUs into the limited space of a drone and demonstrate the feasibility of running the entire cinematography system onboard in real-time. Experimental results in both simulation and real-world scenarios demonstrate that our cinematography system “ACT” can capture more expressive video footage of human action than that of a state-of-the-art drone camera system.


Title: Approximate Branch and Bound for Fast, Risk-Bound Stochastic Path Planning
Key Words: integer programming  linear programming  mobile robots  path planning  stochastic processes  tree searching  risk-bound stochastic path planning  often intractable problem  autonomous agents  complex stochastic processes  fast path planning  chance constraint  stochastic path planning problem  nonconvex problem  scales computational effort  MILP approach  parallelized sampling-based approach  Computational modeling  Stochastic processes  Trajectory  Uncertainty  Planning  Aerospace electronics 
Abstract: Path planning under uncertainty is a difficult and often intractable problem. Autonomous agents must model and reason about complex stochastic processes to quickly derive high quality plans. Most approaches separate the model of uncertainty from the planning; a model is selected and then a controller derived. This work proposes an approach for fast path planning under uncertainty that scales the model of uncertainty such that good policies receive the most effort. To do this, we use an innovative form of the problem's chance constraint to formulate a convex, stochastic path planning problem from the non-convex problem. Next, a bound on the path's expected cost is developed that allows a trade-off between speed of computation and accuracy. The bound is trivially parallelized on a GPU. Finally, a modified branch and bound algorithm is introduced that scales computational effort for more promising solutions. The method is benchmarked against existing approaches including those using Boole's inequality, a MILP approach, and a parallelized sampling-based approach. It outperforms other approaches based on speed and the ability to meet the chance constraint while not being overly conservative.


Title: Rapidly-Exploring Random Vines (RRV) for Motion Planning in Configuration Spaces with Narrow Passages
Key Words: collision avoidance  eigenvalues and eigenfunctions  mobile robots  random processes  sampling methods  trees (mathematics)  configuration space  tree expansion  eigenvectors  classical RRT algorithm  rapidly-exploring random vines algorithm  motion planning problem  narrow passage  Space exploration  Planning  Terminology  Principal component analysis  Probabilistic logic  Robots  Collision avoidance 
Abstract: Classical RRT algorithm is blind to efficiently explore configuration space for expanding the tree through a narrow passage when solving a motion planning (MP) problem. Although there have been several attempts to deal with narrow passages which are based on a wide spectrum of assumptions and configuration setups, we solve this problem in rather general way. We use dominant eigenvectors of the configuration sets formed by properly sampling the space around the nearest node, to efficiently expand the tree around the obstacles and through narrow passages. Unlike classical RRT, our algorithm is aware of having the tree nodes in front of a narrow passage and in a narrow passage, which enables a proper tree expansion in a vine-like manner. A thorough comparison with RRT, RRT-connect, and DDRRT algorithm is provided by solving three different difficult MP problems. The results suggest a significant superiority the proposed Rapidly-exploring Random Vines (RRV) algorithm might have in configuration spaces with narrow passages.


Title: Generalizing Informed Sampling for Asymptotically-Optimal Sampling-Based Kinodynamic Planning via Markov Chain Monte Carlo
Key Words: approximation theory  convergence of numerical methods  estimation theory  learning (artificial intelligence)  Markov processes  Monte Carlo methods  optimisation  path planning  random processes  sampling methods  state-space methods  trees (mathematics)  asymptotically-optimal motion planners  subsequent samples  motion-planning problem  Euclidean space  nonEuclidean state spaces  dimensional state space  planning algorithm  sub-level-set  Monte Carlo sampling methods  high-quality solutions  high-dimensional problems  Markov chain Monte Carlo  informed set  generalizing informed sampling  asymptotically-optimal sampling-based kinodynamic planning  hierarchical rejection sampling  Trajectory  Planning  Monte Carlo methods  Markov processes  Cost function  Heuristic algorithms 
Abstract: Asymptotically-optimal motion planners such as RRT* have been shown to incrementally approximate the shortest path between start and goal states. Once an initial solution is found, their performance can be dramatically improved by restricting subsequent samples to regions of the state space that can potentially improve the current solution. When the motion-planning problem lies in a Euclidean space, this region Xinf, called the informed set, can be sampled directly. However, when planning with differential constraints in non-Euclidean state spaces, no analytic solutions exists to sampling Xinf directly. State-of-the-art approaches to sampling Xinf in such domains such as Hierarchical Rejection Sampling (HRS) may still be slow in high -dimensional state space. This may cause the planning algorithm to spend most of its time trying to produces samples in Xinf rather than explore it. In this paper, we suggest an alternative approach to produce samples in the informed set Xinf for a wide range of settings. Our main insight is to recast this problem as one of sampling uniformly within the sub-level-set of an implicit non-convex function. This recasting enables us to apply Monte Carlo sampling methods, used very effectively in the Machine Learning and Optimization communities, to solve our problem. We show for a wide range of scenarios that using our sampler can accelerate the convergence rate to high-quality solutions in high-dimensional problems.


Title: Dancing PRM*: Simultaneous Planning of Sampling and Optimization with Configuration Free Space Approximation
Key Words: approximation theory  optimisation  path planning  grid-based approaches  optimization-based planner  resolution-complete factors  spatial information  empirical information  learned information  optimization-based local planner  asymptotic optimal planners  simultaneous planning  configuration free space approximation  optimal motion planning  sampling-based planner  Dancing PRM  Planning  Approximation algorithms  Trajectory  Optimization  Robots  Probabilistic logic  Linear programming 
Abstract: A recent trend in optimal motion planning has broadened the research area toward the hybridization of sampling, optimization and grid-based approaches. We can expect that synergy from such integrations leads to overall performance improvement, but seamless integration and generalization is still an open problem. In this paper, we suggest a hybrid motion planning algorithm utilizing a sampling-based and optimization-based planner while simultaneously approximating a configuration free space. Unlike conventional optimization-based approaches, the proposed algorithm does not depend on a priori information or resolution-complete factors, e.g., a distance field. Ours instead learns spatial information on the fly by exploiting empirical information during the execution, and decentralizes the information over the constructed graph for efficient access. With the help of the learned information, our optimization-based local planner exploits the local area to identify the connectivity of configuration free space without depending on the precomputed domain knowledge. To show the novelty of proposed algorithm, we evaluate it against other asymptotic optimal planners in both synthetic and complex benchmarks with varying degrees of freedom. We also discuss the performance improvement, properties and limitations we have observed.


Title: Randomized Kinodynamic Planning for Constrained Systems
Key Words: collision avoidance  large-scale systems  manipulators  mobile robots  random processes  robot dynamics  robot kinematics  state-space methods  trajectory control  trees (mathematics)  kinodynamic RRT planner  atlas  state-space manifold  randomized kinodynamic planner  holonomic constraints  constrained systems  high-dimensional dynamical systems  parallel manipulators  complex systems  trajectories  robots  Mathematical model  Robot kinematics  Planning  Trajectory  Manifolds  Standards 
Abstract: Kinodynamic RRT planners are considered to be general tools for effectively finding feasible trajectories for high-dimensional dynamical systems. However, they struggle when holonomic constraints are present in the system, such as those arising in parallel manipulators, in robots that cooperate to fulfill a given task, or in situations involving contacts with the environment. In such cases, the state space becomes an implicitly-defined manifold, which makes the diffusion heuristic inefficient and leads to inaccurate dynamical simulations. To address these issues, this paper presents an extension of the kinodynamic RRT planner that constructs an atlas of the state-space manifold incrementally, and uses this atlas both to generate random states and to dynamically steer the system towards such states. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first randomized kinodynamic planner that explicitly takes holonomic constraints into account. We validate the approach in significantly-complex systems.


Title: Learning Sampling Distributions for Robot Motion Planning
Key Words: collision avoidance  mobile robots  sampling methods  robot motion planning  sampling-based motion planning  collision-avoidance  variational autoencoder  bias sampling  Planning  Robots  Probabilistic logic  Manifolds  Collision avoidance  Feature extraction  Acceleration 
Abstract: A defining feature of sampling-based motion planning is the reliance on an implicit representation of the state space, which is enabled by a set of probing samples. Traditionally, these samples are drawn either probabilistically or deterministically to uniformly cover the state space. Yet, the motion of many robotic systems is often restricted to “small” regions of the state space, due to e.g. differential constraints or collision-avoidance constraints. To accelerate the planning process, it is thus desirable to devise non-uniform sampling strategies that favor sampling in those regions where an optimal solution might lie. This paper proposes a methodology for nonuniform sampling, whereby a sampling distribution is learned from demonstrations, and then used to bias sampling. The sampling distribution is computed through a conditional variational autoencoder, allowing sample generation from the latent space conditioned on the specific planning problem. This methodology is general, can be used in combination with any sampling-based planner, and can effectively exploit the underlying structure of a planning problem while maintaining the theoretical guarantees of sampling-based approaches. Specifically, on several planning problems, the proposed methodology is shown to effectively learn representations for the relevant regions of the state space, resulting in an order of magnitude improvement in terms of success rate and convergence to the optimal cost.


Title: Ruling the Control Authority of a Service Robot Based on Information Precision
Key Words: geriatrics  handicapped aids  mobile robots  path planning  position control  service robots  SLAM (robots)  active sensing system  control law  senior user guidance  path following problem  landmarks  actuator control  accurate localisation  exact localisation  robotic walking assistant  information precision  service robot  control authority  design strategy  massive data collection  SLAM approaches  Robot sensing systems  Estimation error  Uncertainty  Probabilistic logic  Service robots  Automobiles 
Abstract: We consider the problem of guiding a senior user along a path using a robotic walking assistant. This is a particular type of path following problem, for which most of the solutions available in the literature require an exact localisation of the robot in the environment. An accurate localisation is obtained either with a heavy infrastructure (e.g., an active sensing system deployed in the environment or deploying landmarks in known positions) or using SLAM approaches with a massive data collection. Our key observation is that the intervention of the system (and a good level of accuracy) is only required in proximity of difficult decision points, while we can rely on the user in an environment where the only possibility is just to maintain a course (e.g., a corridor). The direct implication is that we can instrument the environment with a heavy infrastructure only in certain areas. This design strategy has to be complemented by an adequate control law that shifts the authority (i.e., the control of the actuators) between the robot and the user according to the accuracy of the information available to the robot. Such a control law is exactly the contribution of this paper.


Title: Feature-constrained Active Visual SLAM for Mobile Robot Navigation
Key Words: collision avoidance  mobile robots  navigation  path planning  robot vision  SLAM (robots)  sensory constraints  iterative motion planning framework  collision avoidance  online mapping  associated map points  distance-optimal path planner  data-driven approach  continuous identification  feature-based Visual Simultaneous Localization  vision-based navigation  failure avoidance  mobile robot navigation  feature-constrained active Visual SLAM  Cameras  Navigation  Collision avoidance  Simultaneous localization and mapping  Planning 
Abstract: This paper focuses on tracking failure avoidance during vision-based navigation to a desired goal in unknown environments. While using feature-based Visual Simultaneous Localization and Mapping (VSLAM), continuous identification and association of map points are required during motion. Thus, we discuss a motion planning framework that takes into account sensory constraints for a reliable navigation. We use information available in the SLAM and propose a data-driven approach to predict the number of map points associated in a given pose. Then, a distance-optimal path planner utilizes the model to constrain paths such that the number of associated map points in each pose is above a threshold. We also include an online mapping of the environment for collision avoidance. Overall, we propose an iterative motion planning framework that enables real-time replanning after the acquisition of more information. Experiments in two environments demonstrate the performance of the proposed framework.


Title: Level-Headed: Evaluating Gimbal-Stabilised Visual Teach and Repeat for Improved Localisation Performance
Key Words: feature extraction  mobile robots  path planning  robot vision  rough terrain  unstructured terrain  border patrol  agricultural work  sensor-based navigation  erratic motion  feature-poor environments test feature tracking  repeat matching  salient point features  Grizzly Robotic Utility Vehicle  actively gimbaled camera  image motion  search-and-rescue  field-deployable ground robot  vision-based route-following  feature extraction  Transforms  Cameras  Visualization  Robot sensing systems  Robustness  Navigation 
Abstract: Operating in rough, unstructured terrain is an essential requirement for any truly field-deployable ground robot. Search-and-rescue, border patrol and agricultural work all require operation in environments with little established infrastructure for easy navigation. This presents challenges for sensor-based navigation such as vision, where erratic motion and feature-poor environments test feature tracking and hinder the performance of repeat matching of point features. For vision-based route-following methods such as Visual Teach and Repeat (VT&R), maintaining similar visual perspective of salient point features is critical for reliable odometry and accurate localisation over long periods. In this paper, we investigate a potential solution to these challenges by integrating a gimbaled camera with VT&R on a Grizzly Robotic Utility Vehicle (RUV) for testing at high speeds and in visually challenging environments. We examine the benefits and drawbacks of using an actively gimbaled camera to attenuate image motion and control viewpoint. We compare the use of a gimbaled camera to our traditional fixed stereo configuration and demonstrate cases of improved performance in Visual Odometry (VO), localisation and path following in several sets of outdoor experiments.


Title: Counterexamples for Robotic Planning Explained in Structured Language
Key Words: control engineering computing  formal verification  integer programming  linear programming  Markov processes  natural languages  path planning  robots  complex automaton  mixed-integer linear programming  Markov decision processes  model checking  warehouse robots planning  robotic mission plan  MDP model  robotic behavior  structured natural language sentences  Robots  Natural languages  Planning  Computational modeling  Charging stations  Model checking  Markov processes 
Abstract: Automated techniques such as model checking have been used to verify models of robotic mission plans based on Markov decision processes (MDPs) and generate counterexamples that may help diagnose requirement violations. However, such artifacts may be too complex for humans to understand, because existing representations of counterexamples typically include a large number of paths or a complex automaton. To help improve the interpretability of counterexamples, we define a notion of explainable counterexample, which includes a set of structured natural language sentences to describe the robotic behavior that lead to a requirement violation in an MDP model of robotic mission plan. We propose an approach based on mixed-integer linear programming for generating explainable counterexamples that are minimal, sound and complete. We demonstrate the usefulness of the proposed approach via a case study of warehouse robots planning.


Title: Multi-Vehicle Motion Planning for Social Optimal Mobility-on-Demand
Key Words: automobiles  collision avoidance  mobile robots  optimal control  optimisation  road traffic  scheduling  potential collision situations  road geometries  joint motion plans  multivehicle motion planning  road network  Vienna Convention  desired deadlines  integrated route  road traffic  motion planning problem  social optimal mobility-on-demand  self-driving cars  bubble spaces  queue scheduling  Roads  Planning  Delays  Task analysis  Sensors  Trajectory  Automobiles 
Abstract: In this paper we consider a fleet of self-driving cars operating in a road network governed by rules of the road, such as the Vienna Convention on Road Traffic, providing rides to customers to serve their demands with desired deadlines. We focus on the associated motion planning problem that trades-off the demands' delays and level of violation of the rules of the road to achieve social optimum among the vehicles. Due to operating in the same environment, the interaction between the cars must be taken into account, and can induce further delays. We propose an integrated route and motion planning approach that achieves scalability with respect to the number of cars by resolving potential collision situations locally within so-called bubble spaces enclosing the conflict. The algorithms leverage the road geometries, and perform joint planning only for lead vehicles in the conflict and use queue scheduling for the remaining cars. Furthermore, a framework for storing previously resolved conflict situations is proposed, which can be use for quick querying of joint motion plans. We show the mobility-on-demand setup and effectiveness of the proposed approach in simulated case studies involving up to 10 self-driving vehicles.


Title: Auctioning over Probabilistic Options for Temporal Logic-Based Multi-Robot Cooperation Under Uncertainty
Key Words: control engineering computing  formal specification  mobile robots  multi-robot systems  operating systems (computers)  path planning  temporal logic  probabilistic options  temporal logic-based multirobot cooperation  temporal dependencies  task specification  robot team  temporal logic specifications  goal specification  ROS implementation  Robot kinematics  Task analysis  Uncertainty  Planning  Resource management  Probabilistic logic 
Abstract: Coordinating a team of robots to fulfill a common task is still a demanding problem. This is even more the case when considering uncertainty in the environment, as well as temporal dependencies within the task specification. A multi-robot cooperation from a single goal specification requires mechanisms for decomposing the goal as well as an efficient planning for the team. However, planning action sequences offline is insufficient in real world applications. Rather, due to uncertainties, the robots also need to closely coordinate during execution and adjust their policies when additional observations are made. The framework presented in this paper enables the robot team to cooperatively fulfill tasks given as temporal logic specifications while explicitly considering uncertainty and incorporating observations during execution. We present the effectiveness of our ROS implementation of this approach in a case study scenario.


Title: Underactuated Hand Design Using Mechanically Realizable Manifolds
Key Words: actuators  dexterous manipulators  grippers  manipulator kinematics  stability  hand synergies  kinematic hand model  physical underactuation mechanism  hand posture  single-actuator hand  underactuated hand design  mechanically realizable manifolds  joint coordination patterns  planning algorithms  robotic grasping  mechanically realizable manifold  Tendons  Force  Optimization  Springs  Manifolds  Kinematics  Grasping 
Abstract: Hand synergies, or joint coordination patterns, have become an effective tool for achieving versatile robotic grasping with simple hands or planning algorithms. Here we propose a method to determine the hand synergies such that they can be physically implemented in an underactuated fashion. Given a kinematic hand model and a set of desired grasps, our algorithm optimizes a Mechanically Realizable Manifold designed to be achievable by a physical underactuation mechanism, enabling the resulting hand to achieve the desired grasps with few actuators. Furthermore, in contrast to existing methods for determining synergies which are only concerned with hand posture, our method explicitly optimizes the stability of the target grasps. We implement this method in the design of a three-finger single-actuator hand as an example, and evaluate its effectiveness numerically and experimentally.


Title: Robotic Handling of Liquids with Spilling Avoidance: A Constraint-Based Control Approach
Key Words: industrial manipulators  materials handling  motion control  path planning  sloshing  handling liquids  service robotic applications  motion planning  liquid transfer  sloshing control  anti spilling constraint  spilling avoidance constraint  constraint-based control  sloshing suppression  industrial ABB robot  robotic manipulators  Liquids  Robots  Trajectory  Containers  Task analysis  Acceleration  Optimization 
Abstract: Handling liquids with spilling avoidance is a topic of interest for a broad range of fields, both in industry and in service robotic applications. In this paper we present a new control architecture for motion planning of industrial robots, able to tackle the problem of liquid transfer with sloshing control. We do not focus on a complete sloshing suppression, but we show how to enforce an anti spilling constraint. This less conservative approach allows to impose higher accelerations, reducing motion time. A constraint-based approach, amenable to an Online implementation, has been developed. The proposed controller generates trajectories in real time, in order to follow a reference path, while being compliant to the spilling avoidance constraint. The approach has been validated on a 6 degree of freedom industrial ABB robot.


Title: A Robust Robot Design for Item Picking
Key Words: calibration  cameras  grippers  industrial manipulators  learning (artificial intelligence)  path planning  robot vision  service robots  feature-based comparison  gripper system  grasping strategy  robust performance  target items  robot system  dual 6 degrees of freedom industrial arms  error recovery strategies  fixed calibrated frame  multiple stereo cameras  vision system  custom-designed top-open extendable shelf  calibrated table  fixed bases  module designs  component selection  motion planning  system requirements  Amazon Robotics Challenge  reliable system  stable system  item picking  robust robot design  Cameras  Manipulators  Task analysis  Planning  Service robots  Robot vision systems 
Abstract: In order to build a stable and reliable system for the Amazon Robotics Challenge we went through a detailed study of the performance and system requirements based on the rules and our past experience of the challenge. The challenge was to build a robot that integrates grasping, vision, motion planning, among others, to be able to pick items from a shelf to specific order boxes. This paper presents the development process including component selection, module designs, and deployment. The resulting robot system has dual 6 degrees of freedom industrial arms mounted on fixed bases, which in turn are mounted on a calibrated table. The robot works with a custom-designed top-open extendable shelf. The vision system uses multiple stereo cameras mounted on a fixed calibrated frame. Feature-based comparison and machine-learning based matching are used to identify and determine item pose. The gripper system uses suction cup and the grasping strategy is pick from the top. Error recovery strategies were also implemented to ensure robust performance. During the competition, the robot was able to pick all target items with the shortest amount of time.


Title: Semantic Robot Programming for Goal-Directed Manipulation in Cluttered Scenes
Key Words: graph theory  image colour analysis  learning (artificial intelligence)  manipulators  path planning  pose estimation  robot programming  robot vision  object geometries  Semantic Robot Programming  task planning  motion planning  Discriminatively-Informed Generative Estimation of Scenes and Transforms  DIGEST method  RGBD images  goal-directed manipulation  cluttered scene dataset  Michigan Progress Fetch robot  object poses  robot manipulator  SRP  semantic mapping  Task analysis  Semantics  Robot programming  Estimation  Planning  Detectors 
Abstract: We present the Semantic Robot Programming (SRP) paradigm as a convergence of robot programming by demonstration and semantic mapping. In SRP, a user can directly program a robot manipulator by demonstrating a snapshot of their intended goal scene in workspace. The robot then parses this goal as a scene graph comprised of object poses and inter-object relations, assuming known object geometries. Task and motion planning is then used to realize the user's goal from an arbitrary initial scene configuration. Even when faced with different initial scene configurations, SRP enables the robot to seamlessly adapt to reach the user's demonstrated goal. For scene perception, we propose the Discriminatively-Informed Generative Estimation of Scenes and Transforms (DIGEST) method to infer the initial and goal states of the world from RGBD images. The efficacy of SRP with DIGEST perception is demonstrated for the task of tray-setting with a Michigan Progress Fetch robot. Scene perception and task execution are evaluated with a public household occlusion dataset and our cluttered scene dataset.


Title: Historical Data is Useful for Navigation Planning: Data Driven Route Generation for Autonomous Ship
Key Words: autonomous underwater vehicles  collision avoidance  marine control  marine navigation  mobile robots  ships  Navigation Feature  historical data  navigation planning  data driven route generation  autonomous ship  automated generation  autonomous surface vessel  robotic surface vessel  Historical Automatic Identification System data  AIS locations  nearest neighbour based path retrieval  Ship Feature  AIS records  Marine vehicles  Navigation  Artificial intelligence  Noise measurement  Planning  Path planning  Databases 
Abstract: This work presents a method for automated generation of navigation plan for autonomous or robotic surface vessel. Historical Automatic Identification System (AIS) data is of significant value to this problem. The method joins AIS locations of a same vessel at different time and locations in a region into a route. Next, it automatically computes navigation plans using nearest neighbour based path retrieval relying on two representations, Ship Feature and Navigation Feature. Before starting service, existing AIS records in the form of ship properties and corresponding route are preprocessed and stored in the form of Ship and Navigation Feature. During online retrieval, given input constraints in vector form, nearest neighbour of this query vector in the same space is found and corresponding path of the neighbour is returned as recommended path. Analysis was done in four and two dimensional spaces for Ship and Navigation Feature respectively. Application of the method is demonstrated in two regions of Australian, covering Bass Strait and Great Australian Bight.


Title: Robust Dense Mapping for Large-Scale Dynamic Environments
Key Words: cameras  image motion analysis  image reconstruction  image segmentation  mobile robots  motion control  object detection  path planning  pose estimation  robot vision  stereo image processing  robust dense mapping  large-scale dynamic environments  stereo-based dense mapping algorithm  large-scale dynamic urban environments  static background  high-level mobile robotic tasks  crowded environments  instance-aware semantic segmentation  sparse scene flow  visual odometry  depth maps  stereo input  map pruning technique  reconstruction accuracy  stationary objects  moving objects detection  path planning  camera poses estimation  frequency 2.5 Hz  Three-dimensional displays  Cameras  Semantics  Vehicle dynamics  Dynamics  Real-time systems  Heuristic algorithms 
Abstract: We present a stereo-based dense mapping algorithm for large-scale dynamic urban environments. In contrast to other existing methods, we simultaneously reconstruct the static background, the moving objects, and the potentially moving but currently stationary objects separately, which is desirable for high-level mobile robotic tasks such as path planning in crowded environments. We use both instance-aware semantic segmentation and sparse scene flow to classify objects as either background, moving, or potentially moving, thereby ensuring that the system is able to model objects with the potential to transition from static to dynamic, such as parked cars. Given camera poses estimated from visual odometry, both the background and the (potentially) moving objects are reconstructed separately by fusing the depth maps computed from the stereo input. In addition to visual odometry, sparse scene flow is also used to estimate the 3D motions of the detected moving objects, in order to reconstruct them accurately. A map pruning technique is further developed to improve reconstruction accuracy and reduce memory consumption, leading to increased scalability. We evaluate our system thoroughly on the well-known KITTI dataset. Our system is capable of running on a PC at approximately 2.5Hz, with the primary bottleneck being the instance-aware semantic segmentation, which is a limitation we hope to address in future work. The source code is available from the project Websitea.


Title: Self-triggered Adaptive Planning and Scheduling of UAV Operations
Key Words: adaptive control  autonomous aerial vehicles  collision avoidance  energy consumption  helicopters  mobile robots  noise  reachability analysis  risk analysis  scheduling  trajectory optimisation (aerospace)  obstacles avoidance  energy consumption  trajectory curvature  self-triggered adaptive planning  unmanned aerial vehicles  scheduling  quadrotor UAV motion planning  obstacles detection  time consumption  constant periodic sensor measurements  online speed adaptation policy  risk-based analysis  noise  reachability analysis  Trajectory  Robot sensing systems  Safety  Unmanned aerial vehicles  Reachability analysis  Schedules 
Abstract: Modern unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs) rely on constant periodic sensor measurements to detect and avoid obstacles. However, constant checking and replanning are time and energy consuming and are often not necessary especially in situations in which the UAV can safely fly in uncluttered environments without entering unsafe states. Thus, in this paper, we propose a self-triggered framework that leverages reachability analysis to schedule the next time to check sensor measurements and perform replanning while guaranteeing safety under noise and disturbance effects. Further, we relax sensor checking and motion replanning operations by leveraging a risk-based analysis that determines the likelihood to reach undesired states over a certain time horizon. We also propose an online speed adaptation policy based on the planned trajectory curvature to minimize drift from the desired path due to the system dynamics. Finally, we validate the proposed approach with simulations and experiments for a quadrotor UAV motion planning case study in a cluttered environment.


Title: Intent-Aware Multi-Agent Reinforcement Learning
Key Words: aerospace robotics  control engineering computing  decision theory  function approximation  learning (artificial intelligence)  Markov processes  multi-agent systems  planning (artificial intelligence)  robot dynamics  low-level planning algorithms  intent-aware multiagent reinforcement learning  learning algorithm  planning process  partially observable Markov decision process  linear function approximation  intent-aware multiagent planning  aerial robots  human interaction  dynamic process  POMDP  Planning  Prediction algorithms  Automata  Vehicles  History  Computational modeling 
Abstract: This paper proposes an intent-aware multi-agent planning framework as well as a learning algorithm. Under this framework, an agent plans in the goal space to maximize the expected utility. The planning process takes the belief of other agents' intents into consideration. Instead of formulating the learning problem as a partially observable Markov decision process (POMDP), we propose a simple but effective linear function approximation of the utility function. It is based on the observation that for humans, other people's intents will pose an influence on our utility for a goal. The proposed framework has several major advantages: i) it is computationally feasible and guaranteed to converge. ii) It can easily integrate existing intent prediction and low-level planning algorithms. iii) It does not suffer from sparse feedbacks in the action space. We experiment our algorithm in a real-world problem that is non-episodic, and the number of agents and goals can vary over time. Our algorithm is trained in a scene in which aerial robots and humans interact, and tested in a novel scene with a different environment. Experimental results show that our algorithm achieves the best performance and human-like behaviors emerge during the dynamic process.


Title: Deep Reinforcement Learning Supervised Autonomous Exploration in Office Environments
Key Words: decision making  learning (artificial intelligence)  mobile robots  path planning  supervised autonomous exploration  office environments  exploration region selection  autonomous robot exploration task  greedy methods  long-term planning  deep reinforcement learning  exploration knowledge  office blueprints  DRL model  next-best-view selection approach  structural integrity measurement  office maps  decision making process  Planning  Optimization  Prediction algorithms  Task analysis  Predictive models  Computer architecture  Uncertainty 
Abstract: Exploration region selection is an essential decision making process in autonomous robot exploration task. While a majority of greedy methods are proposed to deal with this problem, few efforts are made to investigate the importance of predicting long-term planning. In this paper, we present an algorithm that utilizes deep reinforcement learning (DRL) to learn exploration knowledge over office blueprints, which enables the agent to predict a long-term visiting order for unexplored subregions. On the basis of this algorithm, we propose an exploration architecture that integrates a DRL model, a next-best-view (NBV) selection approach and a structural integrity measurement to further improve the exploration performance. At the end of this paper, we evaluate the proposed architecture against other methods on several new office maps, showing that the agent can efficiently explore uncertain regions with a shorter path and smarter behaviors.


Title: Trajectory Replanning for Quadrotors Using Kinodynamic Search and Elastic Optimization
Key Words: aircraft control  autonomous aerial vehicles  control system synthesis  elasticity  helicopters  mobile robots  optimal control  path planning  pipes  predictive control  quadratic programming  robot dynamics  robot kinematics  robot vision  search problems  splines (mathematics)  trajectory control  quadratically constrained quadratic programming problem  receding horizon replanner design  trajectory replanning  grid structure  dynamically feasible time-parameterized trajectory  B-spline based kinodynamic search algorithm  greedy search  B-spline parameterization  position-only shortest path search  monocular vision-based quadrotor  replanning system  local control property  expanded elastic tube  optimal control point placement  EO approach  RBK search  post-optimization process  elastic optimization approach  Splines (mathematics)  Trajectory  Optimization  Real-time systems  Process control  Planning  Complexity theory 
Abstract: We focus on a replanning scenario for quadrotors where considering time efficiency, non-static initial state and dynamical feasibility is of great significance. We propose a real-time B-spline based kinodynamic (RBK) search algorithm, which transforms a position-only shortest path search (such as A * and Dijkstra) into an efficient kinodynamic search, by exploring the properties of B-spline parameterization. The RBK search is greedy and produces a dynamically feasible time-parameterized trajectory efficiently, which facilitates non-static initial state of the quadrotor. To cope with the limitation of the greedy search and the discretization induced by a grid structure, we adopt an elastic optimization (EO) approach as a post-optimization process, to refine the control point placement provided by the RBK search. The EO approach finds the optimal control point placement inside an expanded elastic tube which represents the free space, by solving a Quadratically Constrained Quadratic Programming (QCQP) problem. We design a receding horizon replanner based on the local control property of B-spline. A systematic comparison of our method against two state-of-the-art methods is provided. We integrate our replanning system with a monocular vision-based quadrotor and validate our performance onboard.


Title: On Bisection Continuous Collision Checking Method: Spherical Joints and Minimum Distance to Obstacles
Key Words: collision avoidance  mobile robots  motion control  path planning  bisection Continuous Collision checking method  spherical joints  Continuous Collision Detection method  tight motion bounds  sampling-based motion planning technique  Baxter research robot  minimum distance extension  obstacle minimum distance  robotic systems  Collision avoidance  Charge coupled devices  Planning  Computational modeling  Manipulators  Motion segmentation 
Abstract: In this paper, we adapt the Continuous Collision Detection (CCD) method proposed in [1] to efficiently handle the case of spherical and two revolute joints, this kind of joints is very common in modern robotic systems. The new formulations provide more tight motion bounds, thus increase the success rate of checking collision-free paths. We also propose an extension to get the minimum distance to obstacles along a path, this information is primordial as it allows sampling-based motion planning techniques to sort collision-free paths according to their minimum clearance. We have integrated our implementation into a sampling-based motion planning technique and validated it through simulation and on the real Baxter research robot. The experiments revealed that the method not only does not miss any collision between the robot and the obstacles, but also the minimum distance extension provides the path with the maximum clearance at no additional computational cost.


Title: Avoidance of High-Speed Obstacles Based on Velocity Obstacles
Key Words: collision avoidance  mobile robots  velocity control  time horizon  obstacle avoidance algorithm  collision avoidance  two-period velocity obstacle algorithm  high-speed obstacles avoidance  mobile robots  Collision avoidance  Robot kinematics  Prediction algorithms  Heuristic algorithms  Robot sensing systems  Dynamics 
Abstract: For obstacles moving with high speeds, existing motion planning methods can rarely guarantee collision avoidance. This paper proposes a viable two-period velocity obstacle algorithm where one period predicts potential collisions within a limited time horizon, and the second period foresees collisions beyond that horizon. The second period is activated only when the obstacle's moving speed is larger than the maximum speed of the robot. The applicability of the new algorithm and the related computation issues are discussed. Both computer simulations and laboratory experiments illustrated the effectiveness of the proposed obstacle avoidance algorithm.


Title: NanoMap: Fast, Uncertainty-Aware Proximity Queries with Lazy Search Over Local 3D Data
Key Words: cartography  collision avoidance  mobile robots  navigation  sensors  NanoMap  uncertainty-aware proximity queries  lazy search  local 3D data  local 3D information  robustly plan motions  local map structure  mapping approaches  global map fusion  motion planner  pose-uncertainty-aware local 3D geometric information  noisy relative pose transforms  depth sensor measurements  minimum-uncertainty view  motion planning  fast 3D obstacle avoidance  mapping techniques  Uncertainty  Robot sensing systems  Planning  Three-dimensional displays  Collision avoidance  History  Current measurement 
Abstract: We would like robots to be able to safely navigate at high speed, efficiently use local 3D information, and robustly plan motions that consider pose uncertainty of measurements in a local map structure. This is hard to do with previously existing mapping approaches, like occupancy grids, that are focused on incrementally fusing 3D data into a common world frame. In particular, both their fragile sensitivity to state estimation errors and computational cost can be limiting. We develop an alternative framework, NanoMap, which alleviates the need for global map fusion and enables a motion planner to efficiently query pose-uncertainty-aware local 3D geometric information. The key idea of NanoMap is to store a history of noisy relative pose transforms and search over a corresponding set of depth sensor measurements for the minimum-uncertainty view of a queried point in space. This approach affords a variety of capabilities not offered by traditional mapping techniques: (a) the pose uncertainty associated with 3D data can be incorporated in motion planning, (b) poses can be updated (i.e., from loop closures) with minimal computational effort, and (c) 3D data can be fused lazily for the purpose of planning. We provide an open-source implementation of NanoMap, and analyze its capabilities and computational efficiency in simulation experiments. Finally, we demonstrate in hardware its effectiveness for fast 3D obstacle avoidance onboard a quadrotor flying up to 10 m/s.


Title: Cartman: The Low-Cost Cartesian Manipulator that Won the Amazon Robotics Challenge
Key Words: industrial manipulators  robot vision  warehouse automation  autonomous warehousing  robotic vision  manipulation  Cartesian robot system Cartman  experience-centred design methodology  low-cost cartesian manipulator  Amazon Robotics Challenge  pick-and-place robot  Task analysis  Manipulators  Tools  Grippers  Planning  Robustness 
Abstract: The Amazon Robotics Challenge enlisted sixteen teams to each design a pick-and-place robot for autonomous warehousing, addressing development in robotic vision and manipulation. This paper presents the design of our custom-built, cost-effective, Cartesian robot system Cartman, which won first place in the competition finals by stowing 14 (out of 16) and picking all 9 items in 27 minutes, scoring a total of 272 points. We highlight our experience-centred design methodology and key aspects of our system that contributed to our competitiveness. We believe these aspects are crucial to building robust and effective robotic systems.


Title: Model-Based Probabilistic Pursuit via Inverse Reinforcement Learning
Key Words: decision theory  graph theory  learning (artificial intelligence)  Markov processes  mobile robots  navigation  path planning  probability  search problems  control problem  single follower robot  visual contact  moving target  plausible predictions  predictive models  discrete hypotheses  combinatorial search  physical space  model target behavior  learned navigation reward function  semantic terrain features  search methods  predictive pursuit algorithm  multiple satellite maps  simulation scenarios  inverse reinforcement learning  long term behavior  short term behavior  planning pursuit paths  locations  graph representation  latent destination  position  POMDP solvers  domain specific knowledge  model based probabilistic pursuit  Navigation  Planning  Trajectory  Visualization  Entropy  Predictive models  Learning (artificial intelligence) 
Abstract: We address the integrated prediction, planning, and control problem that enables a single follower robot (the photographer) to quickly re-establish visual contact with a moving target (the subject) that has escaped the follower's field of view. We deal with this scenario, which reactive controllers are typically ill-equipped to handle, by making plausible predictions about the long- and short-term behavior of the target, and planning pursuit paths that will maximize the chance of seeing the target again. At the core of our pursuit method is the use of predictive models of target behavior, which help narrow down the set of possible future locations of the target to a few discrete hypotheses, as well as the use of combinatorial search in physical space to check those hypotheses efficiently. We model target behavior in terms of a learned navigation reward function, using Inverse Reinforcement Learning, based on semantic terrain features of satellite maps. Our pursuit algorithm continuously predicts the latent destination of the target and its position in the future, and relies on efficient graph representation and search methods in order to navigate to locations at which the target is most likely to be seen at an anticipated time. We perform extensive evaluation of our predictive pursuit algorithm over multiple satellite maps, thousands of simulation scenarios, against state-of-the art MDP and POMDP solvers. We show that our method significantly outperforms them by exploiting domain-specific knowledge, while being able to run in real-time.


Title: U sing a UAV for Destructive Surveys of Mosquito Population
Key Words: autonomous aerial vehicles  diseases  graph theory  integer programming  path planning  travelling salesman problems  destructive surveys  mosquito population  electrified screen  UAV path  mosquito elimination  trajectory planning  traveling salesman problem  milling with turn cost  lawn mower problem  grid graph  optimized energy consumption  Integer Programming  mosquito-borne diseases  mosquito-killing UAV  Unmanned aerial vehicles  Sociology  Statistics  Global Positioning System  Robots  Monitoring  Wind tunnels 
Abstract: This paper introduces techniques for mosquito population surveys in the field using electrified screens (bug zappers) mounted to a UAV. Instrumentation on the UAV logs the UAV path and the GPS location, altitude, and time of each mosquito elimination. Hardware experiments with a UAV equipped with an electrified screen provide real-time measurements of (former) mosquito locations and mosquito-free volumes. Planning a trajectory for the UAV that maximizes the number of mosquito kills is related to the Traveling Salesman Problem, the Lawn Mower Problem and, most closely, Milling with Turn Cost. We reduce this problem to considering variants of covering a grid graph with minimum turn cost, corresponding to optimized energy consumption. We describe an exact method based on Integer Programming that is able to compute provably optimal instances with over 1,500 pixels. These solutions are then implemented on the UAV.


Title: A Self-contained Teleoperated Quadrotor: On-Board State-Estimation and Indoor Obstacle Avoidance
Key Words: autonomous aerial vehicles  cameras  collision avoidance  distance measurement  feedback  Global Positioning System  helicopters  image sequences  Kalman filters  mobile robots  path planning  probability  sensors  state estimation  telerobotics  tracking  on-board state-estimation  indoor obstacle avoidance  unmanned aerial vehicles  GPS signal  teleoperated quadrotor UAV platform  onboard miniature computer  linear velocity  Kalman filter integration  inertial flow  optical flow  depth measurements  robo-centric obstacle model  collision-free navigation  distance measurements  cramped spaces  sensors  tracking  RGB-D camera  visual feedback  probabilistic  Collision avoidance  Robot sensing systems  Estimation  Cameras  Robot kinematics 
Abstract: Indoor operation of unmanned aerial vehicles (UAV s) poses many challenges due to the lack of GPS signal and cramped spaces. The presence of obstacles in an unfamiliar environment requires reliable state estimation and active algorithms to prevent collisions. In this paper, we present a teleoperated quadrotor UAV platform equipped with an onboard miniature computer and a minimal set of sensors for this task. The platform is capable of highly accurate state-estimation, tracking of desired velocity commanded by the user and ensuring collision-free navigation. The robot estimates its linear velocity through a Kalman filter integration of inertial and optical flow (OF) readings with corresponding distance measurements. An RGB-D camera serves the purpose of providing visual feedback to the operator and depth measurements to build a probabilistic, robo-centric obstacle model, allowing the robot to avoid collisions. The platform is thoroughly validated in experiments in an obstacle rich environment.


