total paper: 8
Title: Coverage Path Planning Under the Energy Constraint
Key Words: approximation theory  geometry  mobile robots  path planning  energy constraint  coverage path planning problem  battery limitations  working environment  geometric version  polygonal grid  single charging station  energy consumption  constant-factor approximation algorithm  contour-connected environments  aerial robot  mobile robot systems  Robots  Charging stations  Approximation algorithms  Path planning  Batteries  Partitioning algorithms  Energy consumption 
Abstract: In the coverage path planning problem, a common assumption is that the robot can fully cover the environment without recharging. However, in reality most mobile robot systems operate under battery limitations. To incorporate this constraint, we consider the problem when the working environment is large and the robot needs to recharge multiple times to fully cover the environment. We focus on a geometric version where the environment is represented as a polygonal grid with a single charging station. Energy consumption throughout the environment is assumed to be uniform and proportional to the distance traveled. We first present a constant-factor approximation algorithm for contour-connected environments. We then extend the algorithm for general environments. We also validate the results in experiments performed with an aerial robot.


Title: Multi-Robot Realization Based on Goal Adjacency Constraints
Key Words: closed loop systems  matrix algebra  mobile robots  multi-robot systems  navigation  path planning  position control  velocity control  pairwise distances  velocity-controlled robot  multirobot realization  goal adjacency constraints  robot positions  exact goal positions  relative distances  pairwise adjacency constraints  multirobots  adjacency matrix  adjacency threshold  robot pairs  coordinated navigation  closed-loop dynamics  Conferences  Automation  Australia 
Abstract: This paper considers the problem of multi-robot realization. A realization is a set of robot positions where pairwise distances are either bounded from above or from below by a given adjacency threshold - depending on whether the respective robot pairs are to be adjacent or not. In the realization problem, unlike the related coordinated navigation or formation control problems, exact goal positions or relative distances need not be specified. Rather, only pairwise adjacency constraints are given and the robots' positions are required to satisfy these constraints. Applications of realization problem include multi-robots involved in team games (playing soccer, etc), patrolling and area coverage. We present a novel solution to this problem in which the robots simultaneously navigate to find a realization of a given adjacency matrix without colliding with each other along the way. In this solution, complete information about pairwise distances and free configuration space are encoded using an artificial potential function over the cross product space of the robots' simultaneous positions and proximity variables. The closed-loop dynamics governing the motion of each velocity-controlled robot take the form of the appropriate projection of the gradient of this function while pairwise distances are adjusted accordingly. Our extensive simulations demonstrate that the proposed approach has considerably higher realization percentage and shorter movement distances in comparison to a standard 2-stage approach.


Title: Indoor Coverage Path Planning: Survey, Implementation, Analysis
Key Words: mobile robots  path planning  service robots  trajectory control  indoor coverage path planning  robot trajectories  mobile cleaning robots  lawn mowing robots  harvesting machines  Path planning  Cleaning  Robot sensing systems  Planning  Traveling salesman problems 
Abstract: Coverage Path Planning (CPP) describes the process of generating robot trajectories that fully cover an area or volume. Applications are, amongst many others, mobile cleaning robots, lawn mowing robots or harvesting machines in agriculture. Many approaches and facets of this problem have been discussed in literature but despite the availability of several surveys on the topic there is little work on quantitative assessment and comparison of different coverage path planning algorithms. This paper analyzes six popular off-line coverage path planning methods, applicable to previously recorded maps, in the setting of indoor coverage path planning on room-sized units. The implemented algorithms are thoroughly compared on a large dataset of over 550 rooms with and without furniture.


Title: Multi-robot Dubins Coverage with Autonomous Surface Vehicles
Key Words: computational complexity  mobile robots  multi-robot systems  path planning  remotely operated vehicles  travelling salesman problems  multirobot Dubins coverage  aerial monitoring  single robot approaches  multirobot approaches  Dubins vehicle kinematics  environmental monitoring  multirobot team  Dubins vehicles  NP-complete problems  salesman problem-k-TSP-formulation  autonomous surface vehicles  large scale coverage operations  marine exploration  Robot sensing systems  Clustering algorithms  Task analysis  Lakes  Multi-robot systems  Kinematics 
Abstract: In large scale coverage operations, such as marine exploration or aerial monitoring, single robot approaches are not ideal, as they may take too long to cover a large area. In such scenarios, multi-robot approaches are preferable. Furthermore, several real world vehicles are non-holonomic, but can be modeled using Dubins vehicle kinematics. This paper focuses on environmental monitoring of aquatic environments using Autonomous Surface Vehicles (ASVs). In particular, we propose a novel approach for solving the problem of complete coverage of a known environment by a multi-robot team consisting of Dubins vehicles. It is worth noting that both multi-robot coverage and Dubins vehicle coverage are NP-complete problems. As such, we present two heuristics methods based on a variant of the traveling salesman problem-k-TSP-formulation and clustering algorithms that efficiently solve the problem. The proposed methods are tested both in simulations to assess their scalability and with a team of ASVs operating on a 200 km2 lake to ensure their applicability in real world.


Title: Topological Hotspot Identification for Informative Path Planning with a Marine Robot
Key Words: computational geometry  graph theory  greedy algorithms  image segmentation  marine control  mobile robots  path planning  robot vision  topological graph  greedy-coverage algorithm  informative path planning problem  topological hotspot identification  marine robot  topological map  biological hotspots  aquatic environment  Fast Marching-based Voronoi segmentation  scheduling problem  Path planning  Monitoring  Oceans  Robot sensing systems  Task analysis  Frequency modulation 
Abstract: In this work, we present a novel method for constructing a topological map of biological hotspots in an aquatic environment using a Fast Marching-based Voronoi segmentation. Using this topological map, we develop a closed form solution to the scheduling problem for any single path through the graph. Searching over the space of all paths allows us to compute a maximally informative path that traverses a subset of the hotspots, given some budget. Using a greedy-coverage algorithm we can then compute an informative path. We evaluate our method in a set of simulated trials, both with randomly generated environments and a real-world environment. In these trials, we show that our method produces a topological graph which more accurately captures features in the environment than standard thresholding techniques. Additionally, We show that our method can improve the performance of a greedy-coverage algorithm in the informative path planning problem by guiding it to different informative areas to help it escape from local maxima.


Title: Coverage Control for Wire-Traversing Robots
Key Words: gradient methods  minimisation  mobile robots  motion control  path planning  continuous constrained coverage control problem  mobile robots  COW map  Continuous Onto Wires map  constrained locational cost minimization  final projection step  Lloyd descent algorithm  planar environment  continuous motion  one-dimensional manifolds  two-dimensional motion  wire-traversing robots  Wires  Minimization  Robot sensing systems  Optimization  Motion control  Power transmission lines 
Abstract: In this paper we consider the coverage control problem for a team of wire-traversing robots. The two-dimensional motion of robots moving in a planar environment has to be projected to one-dimensional manifolds representing the wires. Starting from Lloyd's descent algorithm for coverage control, a solution that generates continuous motion of the robots on the wires is proposed. This is realized by means of a Continuous Onto Wires (COW) map: the robots' workspace is mapped onto the wires on which the motion of the robots is constrained to be. A final projection step is introduced to ensure that the configuration of the robots on the wires is a local minimizer of the constrained locational cost. An algorithm for the continuous constrained coverage control problem is proposed and it is tested both in simulation and on a team of mobile robots.


Title: Efficient Active SLAM Based on Submap Joining, Graph Topology and Convex Optimization
Key Words: computational complexity  convex programming  least squares approximations  minimisation  mobile robots  path planning  predictive control  quadratic programming  robot vision  SLAM (robots)  graph topology  active SLAM problem  robot trajectory  area coverage task  model predictive control framework  uncertainty minimization MPC problem  graphical structure  2D feature-based SLAM  variable substitutions  convex optimization method  MPC framework  sequential quadratic programming method  linear SLAM  submap joining approach  planning  simultaneous localization and mapping  nonconvex constrained least-squares problem  Optimized production technology  Simultaneous localization and mapping  Uncertainty  Task analysis  Robot kinematics 
Abstract: The active SLAM problem considered in this paper aims to plan a robot trajectory for simultaneous localization and mapping (SLAM) as well as for an area coverage task with robot pose uncertainty. Based on a model predictive control (MPC) framework, these two problems are solved respectively by different methods. For the uncertainty minimization MPC problem, based on the graphical structure of the 2D feature-based SLAM, a non-convex constrained least-squares problem is presented to approximate the original problem. Then, using variable substitutions, it is further transformed into a convex problem, and then solved by a convex optimization method. For the coverage task considering robot pose uncertainty, it is formulated and solved by the MPC framework and the sequential quadratic programming (SQP) method. In the whole process, considering the computation complexity, we use linear SLAM, which is a submap joining approach, to reduce the time for planning and estimation. Finally, various simulations are presented to validate the effectiveness of the proposed approach.


Title: Optimized Environment Exploration for Autonomous Underwater Vehicles
Key Words: autonomous underwater vehicles  image reconstruction  mobile robots  path planning  quadtrees  tree data structures  viewpoint generation process  consistent maps  noisy sonar data  optimized environment exploration  autonomous underwater  autonomous robotic environment exploration  underwater domain  noisy acoustic sensors  high localization error  control disturbances  robotic exploration algorithm  underwater vehicles  view planning  path planning algorithms  exploration approach  quadtree data structure  relevant queries  natural environments  underwater maps  map representation  optical coverage  time 3.0 d  Cameras  Sonar  Planning  Robot sensing systems  Inspection  Three-dimensional displays 
Abstract: Achieving full autonomous robotic environment exploration in the underwater domain is very challenging, mainly due to noisy acoustic sensors, high localization error, control disturbances of the water and lack of accurate underwater maps. In this work we present a robotic exploration algorithm for underwater vehicles that does not rely on prior information about the environment. Our method has been greatly influenced by many robotic exploration, view planning and path planning algorithms. The proposed method constitutes a significant improvement over our previous work [1]: Firstly, we refine our exploration approach to improve robustness; Secondly, we propose an alternative map representation based on the quadtree data structure that allows different relevant queries to be performed efficiently, reducing the computational cost of the viewpoint generation process; Thirdly, we present an algorithm that is capable of generating consistent maps even when noisy sonar data is used. The aforementioned contributions have increased the reliability of the algorithm, allowing new real experiments performed in artificial structures but also in more challenging natural environments, from which we provide a 3D reconstruction to show that with this algorithm full optical coverage is obtained.


