total paper: 233
Title: Automatic Optimized 3D Path Planner for Steerable Catheters with Heuristic Search and Uncertainty Tolerance
Key Words: catheters  drugs  medical robotics  needles  path planning  surgery  RRT-Connect  sample-based algorithms  obstacle occupancy  insertion procedure  catheter modeling  asymptotically-optimal solution  BIT* algorithm  sample-based heuristic search  drug delivery  multisegment steerable probe  programmable bevel-tip needle  EDEN2020  neurosurgeon  minimally invasive neurosurgery  automatic planner  steerable catheters  Neurosurgery  Catheters  Three-dimensional displays  Kinematics  Needles  Planning  Uncertainty 
Abstract: In this paper, an automatic planner for minimally invasive neurosurgery is presented. The solution provides the neurosurgeon with the best path to connect a user-defined entry point with a target in accordance with a specific cost function. The approach guarantees the avoidance of obstacles which can be found along the insertion pathway. The method is tailored to the EDEN2020* programmable bevel-tip needle, a multisegment steerable probe intended to be used to perform drug delivery for the treatment of glioblastomas. A sample-based heuristic search inspired by the BIT* algorithm is used to define the asymptotically-optimal solution in terms of path length, followed by a smoothing phase to meet the required kinematic constraints of the needle. To account for inaccuracies in catheter modeling, which could determine unexpected control errors over the insertion procedure, an uncertainty margin is defined in order to increase the algorithm's safety. The feasibility of the proposed solution was demonstrated by testing the method in simulated neurosurgical scenarios with different degrees of obstacle occupancy and against other sample-based algorithms present in literature: RRT, RRT* and an enhanced version of the RRT-Connect.


Title: A Novel Approach to Under-Actuated Control of Fluidic Systems
Key Words: actuators  flow control  fluidics  under-actuated control  fluidic actuation  Fluidic Systems  Robots  Pneumatic systems  Valves  Pistons  Damping  Task analysis  Inspection 
Abstract: Thanks to the growing interest in soft robotics, hydropneumatics and inflatable system dynamics are attracting renewed attention from the scientific community. Typical fluidic systems are composed of several chambers and require a complex and bulky network of active components for their control. This paper presents a novel approach to fluidic actuation, which consists in the co-design of both the mechanical parameters of the system and of custom input signals, to enable the elicitation of different behaviors of the system with fewer control components. The principle is presented in theory and simulation and then experimentally validated through the application to a case study, an in-pipe inchworm-like robot. It is shown that it is possible to obtain forward and backward movements by modulating a unique input.


Title: Constrained Sampling-Based Planning for Grasping and Manipulation
Key Words: manipulator dynamics  motion control  path planning  position control  redundant manipulators  sampling methods  sensors  trees (mathematics)  constrained sampling-based planning  sampling-based motion  transport tasks  redundant robotic manipulator  planning margin  grasp configuration  approach direction  sensor uncertainty  execution errors  soft constraints  computational efficiency  studied approaches  target position  grasp tasks  optimal grasp pose  Rapidly-exploring Random Tree algorithm  RRT algorithm  Planning  Grasping  Task analysis  Manipulators  Jacobian matrices  Robustness  Manifolds 
Abstract: This paper presents a novel constrained, sampling-based motion planning method for grasp and transport tasks with a redundant robotic manipulator. We utilize a planning margin for grasping with constraints that allow the best grasp configuration and approach direction to be determined automatically. For manipulators with many degrees of freedom, our method efficiently chooses the optimal grasp pose when there are many redundant solutions. The method also introduces a parameterized intermediate pose that is optimized to determine the approach direction, increasing robustness under sensor uncertainty and execution errors. Our method also considers transporting the grasped object to the desired target position using a Rapidly-exploring Random Tree (RRT) algorithm that incorporates soft constraints via appropriate cost penalties. We demonstrate the effectiveness and efficiency of our algorithms on a number of simulated and experimental applications. Our experimental results show a marked improvement in computational efficiency in comparison to previously studied approaches.


Title: Rearrangement with Nonprehensile Manipulation Using Deep Reinforcement Learning
Key Words: learning (artificial intelligence)  manipulators  mobile robots  path planning  potential field-based heuristic exploration strategy  deep Q-network  nonprehensile rearrangement strategy  physical environment  physical world  skillful interaction  tabletop surface  rearranging objects  deep reinforcement learning  nonprehensile manipulation  quicker learning  training process  Planning  Task analysis  Robots  Tools  Cameras  Visualization  Training 
Abstract: Rearranging objects on a tabletop surface by means of nonprehensile manipulation is a task which requires skillful interaction with the physical world. Usually, this is achieved by precisely modeling physical properties of the objects, robot, and the environment for explicit planning. In contrast, as explicitly modeling the physical environment is not always feasible and involves various uncertainties, we learn a nonprehensile rearrangement strategy with deep reinforcement learning based on only visual feedback. For this, we model the task with rewards and train a deep Q-network. Our potential field-based heuristic exploration strategy reduces the amount of collisions which lead to suboptimal outcomes and we actively balance the training set to avoid bias towards poor examples. Our training process leads to quicker learning and better performance on the task as compared to uniform exploration and standard experience replay. We demonstrate empirical evidence from simulation that our method leads to a success rate of 85%, show that our system can cope with sudden changes of the environment, and compare our performance with human level performance.


Title: Decentralized Adaptive Control for Collaborative Manipulation
Key Words: adaptive control  decentralised control  Lyapunov methods  manipulators  multi-robot systems  stability  center-of-mass measurements  angular velocity  local measurements  collaborative manipulation  decentralized adaptive controller  common payload  agent positions  payload properties  Lyapunov-style analysis  stability  convergence  Payloads  Robots  Collaboration  Angular velocity  Velocity measurement  Task analysis  Stability analysis 
Abstract: This paper presents a design for a decentralized adaptive controller that allows a team of agents to manipulate a common payload in $\mathbb{R}^{2}$ or $\mathbb{R}^{3}$. The controller requires no communication between agents and requires no a priori knowledge of agent positions or payload properties. The agents can control the payload to track a reference trajectory in linear and angular velocity with center-of-mass measurements, in angular velocity using only local measurements and a common frame, and can stabilize its rotation with only local measurements. The controller is designed via a Lyapunov-style analysis and has proven stability and convergence. The controller is validated in simulation and experimentally with four robots manipulating an object in the plane.


Title: Trajectory Generation for Minimum Closed-Loop State Sensitivity
Key Words: autonomous aerial vehicles  closed loop systems  mobile robots  Monte Carlo methods  optimisation  controller dynamics  reference trajectory  system trajectories  trajectory optimization problems  closed-loop sensitivity  trajectory generation  minimum closed-loop state sensitivity  dynamical system fulfil  nominal parameters  closed-loop trajectory  system/controller pair  control inputs  system states  robotic systems  Monte Carlo simulations  unicycle  quadrotor UAV  Trajectory  Sensitivity  Task analysis  Optimization  Uncertainty  Robots  Robustness 
Abstract: In this paper we propose a novel general method to let a dynamical system fulfil at best a control task when the nominal parameters are not perfectly known. The approach is based on the introduction of the novel concept of closed-loop sensitivity, a quantity that relates parameter variations to deviations of the closed-loop trajectory of the system/controller pair. This new definition takes into account the dependency of the control inputs from the system states and nominal parameters as well as from the controller dynamics. The reference trajectory to be tracked is taken as optimization variable, and the dynamics of both the sensitivity and of its gradient are computed analytically along the system trajectories. We then show how this computation can be effectively exploited for solving trajectory optimization problems aimed at generating a reference trajectory that minimizes a norm of the closed-loop sensitivity. The theoretical results are validated via an extensive campaign of Monte Carlo simulations for two relevant robotic systems: a unicycle and a quadrotor UAV.


Title: Modeling and Control of Multi-Arm and Multi-Leg Robots: Compensating for Object Dynamics During Grasping
Key Words: actuators  dexterous manipulators  humanoid robots  legged locomotion  manipulator dynamics  manipulator kinematics  mobile robots  motion control  object dynamics compensation  ANYmal  free-floating robot link  KUKA LWR IV+ representing fingers  contact wrenches control  floating-base multileg robots control  virtual DOF  enormous robot hand  underactuated robots  contact consistent motion generation  Projected Inverse Dynamics Control approach  underactuated system  multiarm robot  modeling approach  grasping scenarios  virtual manipulator  mass 9.0 kg  Grasping  Dynamics  Task analysis  Jacobian matrices  Manipulator dynamics 
Abstract: We consider a virtual manipulator in grasping scenarios which allows us to capture the effect of the object dynamics. This modeling approach turns a multi-arm robot into an underactuated system. We observe that controlling floating-base multi-leg robots is fundamentally similar. The Projected Inverse Dynamics Control approach is employed for decoupling contact consistent motion generation and controlling contact wrenches. The proposed framework for underactuated robots has been evaluated on an enormous robot hand composed of four KUKA LWR IV+ representing fingers cooperatively manipulating a 9kg box with total 28 actuated DOF and six virtual DOF representing the object as additional free-floating robot link. Finally, we validate the same approach on ANYmal, a floating-base quadruped with 12 actuated DOF. Experiments are performed both in simulation and real world.


Title: Multi-Priority Cartesian Impedance Control Based on Quadratic Programming Optimization
Key Words: collision avoidance  humanoid robots  human-robot interaction  motion control  quadratic programming  robot dynamics  service robots  torque control  prioritized Cartesian impedance control  inverse dynamics  matrix pseudoinversion  inverse kinematics computation  QP optimization  QP implementation  classical Cartesian impedance controller  humanoid upper-body torque controlled robot  quadratic programming optimization  inequality constraints  multipriority Cartesian impedance control  algebraic implementation  joint torque limits  virtual model control  Task analysis  Impedance  Robots  Force  Torque  Optimization  Acceleration 
Abstract: In this work we introduced a prioritized Cartesian impedance control under the framework of the Quadratic Programming (QP) optimization. In particular, we present a formulation which is simpler than full inverse dynamics, avoids any matrix pseudo-inversion, inverse kinematics computation and considers strict priorities among tasks. Our formulation is based on QP optimization permitting to take into account also explicit inequality constraints. We compare in simulation the tracking results obtained with a classical algebraic implementation against those derived from the proposed QP implementation taking into account joint torque limits. We consider the classical Cartesian impedance controller and a simplified version, also known as Virtual Model Control. Finally the proposed method was implemented and validated on a humanoid upper-body torque controlled robot. Experimental trials involving various physical interaction conditions were executed to demonstrate the performance of the proposed method.


Title: Contact Point Localization for Articulated Manipulators with Proprioceptive Sensors and Machine Learning
Key Words: control engineering computing  learning (artificial intelligence)  manipulator dynamics  manipulator kinematics  multilayer perceptrons  optimisation  position control  contact point localization  articulated manipulators  proprioceptive sensors  machine learning  joint positions  one-dimensional joint torques  robot arm  RFs  contact link  contact points  Kinova Jaco 2 manipulator  optimization based approach  ML approach  serial manipulator  random forests  multilayer perceptrons  MLP  Force  Torque  Three-dimensional displays  Robot sensing systems  Manipulator dynamics 
Abstract: A model-based Machine Learning (ML) approach is presented to detect and localize external contacts on a 6 degree of freedom (DoF) serial manipulator. This approach only requires the use of proprioceptive sensors (joint positions, velocities and one-dimensional (ID) joint torques already available in the robot arm). Good results are obtained with Random Forests (RFs) and Multi-Layer-Perceptrons (MLPs) leading to a precise localization of the contact link and its orientation. Apart from the link in contact and the orientation of the force, RFs and MLPs are also able to differentiate between contact points on the same link and orientation but with different distances to the joint axis. We experimentally verify this approach on simulated and real data obtained from the Kinova Jaco 2 manipulator and compare it to an optimization based approach.


Title: Planning, Fast and Slow: A Framework for Adaptive Real-Time Safe Trajectory Planning
Key Words: autonomous aerial vehicles  collision avoidance  mobile robots  multi-robot systems  path planning  trajectory control  motion planning  robotics community  FaSTrack  sensor measurements  meta-planning notion  Crazyflie 2.0 quadrotor  adaptive realtime safe trajectory planning  safety guarantee  online planner  offline computation  motion plans  modular safety guarantee  Planning  Trajectory  Safety  Real-time systems  Robustness  Navigation  Computational modeling 
Abstract: Motion planning is an extremely well-studied problem in the robotics community, yet existing work largely falls into one of two categories: computationally efficient but with few if any safety guarantees, or able to give stronger guarantees but at high computational cost. This work builds on a recent development called FaSTrack in which a slow offline computation provides a modular safety guarantee for a faster online planner. We introduce the notion of “meta-planning” in which a refined offline computation enables safe switching between different online planners. This provides autonomous systems with the ability to adapt motion plans to a priori unknown environments in real-time as sensor measurements detect new obstacles, and the flexibility to maneuver differently in the presence of obstacles than they would in free space, all while maintaining a strict safety guarantee. We demonstrate the meta-planning algorithm both in simulation and in hardware using a small Crazyflie 2.0 quadrotor.


Title: Unsupervised Contact Learning for Humanoid Estimation and Control
Key Words: end effectors  friction  humanoid robots  legged locomotion  pattern clustering  probability  robot kinematics  state estimation  unsupervised learning  humanoid estimation  contact state estimation  fuzzy clustering  six-dimensional humanoid contacts  proprioceptive sensors - endeffector contact wrench sensors  inertial measurement units  clustering-based contact probability estimator  kinematics-based base state estimator  sensor noise  unsupervised contact learning  IMUs  DoFs  Friction  Sensors  Force  Foot  State estimation  Computational modeling 
Abstract: This work presents a method for contact state estimation using fuzzy clustering to learn contact probability for full, six-dimensional humanoid contacts. The data required for training is solely from proprioceptive sensors - endeffector contact wrench sensors and inertial measurement units (IMUs) - and the method is completely unsupervised. The resulting cluster means are used to efficiently compute the probability of contact in each of the six endeffector degrees of freedom (DoFs) independently. This clustering-based contact probability estimator is validated in a kinematics-based base state estimator in a simulation environment with realistic added sensor noise for locomotion over rough, low-friction terrain on which the robot is subject to foot slip and rotation. The proposed base state estimator which utilizes these six DoF contact probability estimates is shown to perform considerably better than that which determines kinematic contact constraints purely based on measured normal force.


Title: Robust Control of Dynamic Walking Robots Using Transverse H∞
Key Words: control system synthesis  gait analysis  legged locomotion  linear quadratic control  motion control  robot dynamics  robust control  H∞ control  LQR controllers  compass gait walker  gait sensitivity norm  disturbance rejection  transverse coordinates  robust controllers  dynamic walkers  unstructured environments  dynamic walking robots  robust control  Legged locomotion  Robot kinematics  Robustness  Sensitivity  Robot sensing systems  Trajectory 
Abstract: The control of walking robots has been a long-studied problem as researchers attempt to bring robots out of the lab and into unstructured environments. In particular, there is significant interest in dynamic walkers: a class of walking robots that exhibit highly efficient gaits, but are sensitive to disturbances. This paper develops robust controllers for dynamic walkers in transverse coordinates using H∞ control, with a focus on rejecting disturbances at foot impact. The optimization objective is a measure of disturbance rejection known as the gait sensitivity norm. The controller was used to stabilise a compass gait walker in simulation for various disturbances. Simulation results demonstrate the advantages of phase-tracking and H∞ control for robustness compared to time-varying and LQR controllers.


Title: Comparison Study of Nonlinear Optimization of Step Durations and Foot Placement for Dynamic Walking
Key Words: humanoid robots  legged locomotion  nonlinear control systems  optimisation  pendulums  robot dynamics  dynamic walking  nonlinear optimization problem  continuous dynamics  discrete dynamics  remaining step duration  foot location  motion model captures  mass dynamics  low-dimensionality  holistic approach  three-dimensional parametric space  computational efficiency  sequential approach  customized optimization  current step duration  optimal solutions  bipedal locomotion  Optimization  Foot  Legged locomotion  Robustness  Lips  Dynamics  Computational modeling 
Abstract: This paper studies bipedal locomotion as a nonlinear optimization problem based on continuous and discrete dynamics, by simultaneously optimizing the remaining step duration, the next step duration and the foot location to achieve robustness. The linear inverted pendulum as the motion model captures the center of mass dynamics and its low-dimensionality makes the problem more tractable. We first formulate a holistic approach to search for optimality in the three-dimensional parametric space and use these results as baseline. To further improve computational efficiency, our study investigates a sequential approach with two stages of customized optimization that first optimizes the current step duration, and subsequently the duration and location of the next step. The effectiveness of both approaches is successfully demonstrated in simulation by applying different perturbations. The comparison study shows that these two approaches find mostly the same optimal solutions, but the latter requires considerably less computational time, which suggests that the proposed sequential approach is well suited for real-time implementation with a minor trade-off in optimality.


Title: Torque-Based Dynamic Walking - A Long Way from Simulation to Experiment
Key Words: gait analysis  legged locomotion  motion control  robot dynamics  torque control  torque-based dynamic walking - a long way  torque-controlled robots  trajectory generation  DCM controller  whole-body controller  WBC  full-body walking behavior  sophisticated walking gaits  original control framework  divergent component  Legged locomotion  Task analysis  Foot  Trajectory  Force  Torque 
Abstract: This paper presents methods that facilitate the implementation of dynamic walking on torque-controlled robots in real world experiments. The work uses the Divergent Component of Motion (DCM) for walking trajectory generation and control. The DCM controller is embedded into a whole-body controller (WBC) that produces a full-body walking behavior. While in simulation the combination of DCM and WBC is sufficient for achieving sophisticated walking gaits, during our initial experiments several real-world issues, detailed in this paper, prevented the original control framework from functioning. This work presents the improvements to the original control framework that enabled a breakthrough on the way to achieving torque-based dynamic walking on a real robot.


Title: Online Falling-Over Control of Humanoids Exploiting Energy Shaping and Distribution Methods
Key Words: end effectors  humanoid robots  nonlinear control systems  position control  energy distribution polygons  humanoid robot  lateral falls  sagittal falls  EDP concepts  total energy  impact forces  online falling-over control  fall control technique  energy concepts  orientation control  energy shaping  nonlinear control  ES concepts  humanoids  end effectors  Force  Numerical models  Energy conversion  Robot kinematics  Position control  Dynamics 
Abstract: This paper proposes a novel fall control technique based on energy concepts, which can be applied online to mitigate the impact forces incurred during the falling over of humanoids. The technique reduces the total energy using a nonlinear control tool, called energy shaping (ES), and further distributes the reduced energy over multiple contacts by means of energy distribution polygons (EDP). We also include an effective orientation control to safeguard the end-effectors in the event of ground impacts. The performance of the proposed method is numerically evaluated by dynamic simulations under the sudden falling over scenario of the humanoid robot for both lateral and sagittal falls. The effectiveness of the proposed ES and EDP concepts are verified by diverse comparative simulations with total energy, distribution, and impact forces.


Title: Multilayered Kinodynamics Simulation for Detailed Whole-Body Motion Generation and Analysis
Key Words: biomedical measurement  fracture  gait analysis  injuries  kinematics  Monte Carlo methods  whole-body motions  whole-body motion generation  vertical contact force  human motion mechanisms  whole-body human model  MLKD Sim  multilayered kinodynamics simulation  Dynamics  Computational modeling  Force  Legged locomotion  Kinematics  Data models  Analytical models 
Abstract: This study generates and analyzes unsafe human motions that cannot be measured experimentally in laboratories with dynamic consistency. Detailed whole-body motions are generated by a multilayered kinodynamics simulation (MLKD Sim) that uses a detailed digital whole-body human model and a simple motion-representation model that parametrically represents human motion mechanisms. First, we develop the simple motion-representation model that represents human motion and contact force data that are experimentally measured in a laboratory, and we identify this model's parameters based on these experimental data. Forward dynamics computation of this motion-representation model with changing model and/or environmental parameters simulates motion modification as well as a contact force with dynamic consistency. Finally, the mapping function from the motion-representation model's motion to the detailed motion identified from the experimental data is used to reconstruct the detailed whole-body motion. MLKD Sim reconstructs a vertical contact force with average error of 2.18E+02 N, center of mass trajectory with average error of 3.31E-02 m, ankle joint angle with average error of 1.11E-01 rad (2.95E+00%), and ankle joint torque with average error of 6.13E+01 Nm (1.93E+01%). Unsafe motion simulation results show that the physical load on the hip, knee, and ankle joints increases by 9.23E+01%, 5.42E+02%, and 1.45E+02% respectively with 0.5-m level difference in a running surface. These results imply that when sprinting in an unknown environment, we need to protect, in order, the knee ankle, and hip joints. This study conducts detailed dynamics and kinematics analysis of unsafe human motions that cannot be measured experimentally in laboratories to prevent injuries, falls, and fatigue, and these results should find applications in the fields of medicine and welfare.


Title: Sample and Feedback Efficient Hierarchical Reinforcement Learning from Human Preferences
Key Words: human-robot interaction  learning (artificial intelligence)  human feedback  reward function  bi-perspective reward learning  simulated robot grasping task  general hierarchical reinforcement learning framework  robot perspective  feedback efficiency  physical robot  informative reward function  human preferences  Robots  Grasping  Task analysis  Trajectory  Learning (artificial intelligence)  Context modeling  Customer relationship management 
Abstract: While reinforcement learning has led to promising results in robotics, defining an informative reward function is challenging. Prior work considered including the human in the loop to jointly learn the reward function and the optimal policy. Generating samples from a physical robot and requesting human feedback are both taxing efforts for which efficiency is critical. We propose to learn reward functions from both the robot and the human perspectives to improve on both efficiency metrics. Learning a reward function from the human perspective increases feedback efficiency by assuming that humans rank trajectories according to a low-dimensional outcome space. Learning a reward function from the robot perspective circumvents the need for a dynamics model while retaining the sample efficiency of model-based approaches. We provide an algorithm that incorporates bi-perspective reward learning into a general hierarchical reinforcement learning framework and demonstrate the merits of our approach on a toy task and a simulated robot grasping task.


Title: Inverse Reinforcement Learning via Function Approximation for Clinical Motion Analysis
Key Words: function approximation  image motion analysis  injuries  learning (artificial intelligence)  medical image processing  neurophysiology  Bellman Optimality Equation  reward learning  inverse reinforcement learning  learned reward function  computationally expensive reinforcement learning problems  function approximation method  clinical motion analysis  Learning (artificial intelligence)  Mathematical model  Trajectory  Function approximation  Spinal cord injury  Markov processes  Estimation 
Abstract: This paper introduces a new method for inverse reinforcement learning in large state spaces, where the learned reward function can be used to control high-dimensional robot systems and analyze complex human movement. To avoid solving the computationally expensive reinforcement learning problems in reward learning, we propose a function approximation method to ensure that the Bellman Optimality Equation always holds, and then estimate a function to maximize the likelihood of the observed motion. The time complexity of the proposed method is linearly proportional to the cardinality of the action set, thus it can handle large state spaces efficiently. We test the proposed method in a simulated environment on reward learning, and show that it is more accurate than existing methods and significantly better in scalability. We also show that the proposed method can extend many existing methods to large state spaces. We then apply the method to evaluating the effect of rehabilitative stimulations on patients with spinal cord injuries based on the observed patient motions.


Title: Learning User Preferences in Robot Motion Planning Through Interaction
Key Words: human-robot interaction  mobile robots  optimal control  path planning  user preferences  robot motion planning  complex task specifications  human-robot interaction  temporal constraints  complex robot tasks  user constraint  user-optimal path  spatial constraints  Task analysis  Service robots  Roads  Robot motion  Planning  Shortest path problem 
Abstract: In this paper we develop an approach for learning user preferences for complex task specifications through human-robot interaction. We consider the problem of planning robot motion in a known environment, but where a user has specified additional spatial and temporal constraints on allowable robot motions. To illustrate the impact of the user's constraints on performance, we iteratively present users with alternative solutions on an interface. The user provides a ranking of alternate paths, and from this we learn about the importance of different constraints. This allows for an accessible method for specifying complex robot tasks. We present an algorithm that iteratively builds a set of constraints on the relative importance of each user constraint, and prove that with sufficient interaction, the algorithm determines a user-optimal path. We demonstrate the practical performance by simulating realistic material transport scenarios in industrial facilities.


Title: A Whole Body Attitude Stabilizer for Hybrid Wheeled-Legged Quadruped Robots
Key Words: attitude control  legged locomotion  motion control  quadratic programming  robot kinematics  stability  wheels  motion capabilities  Centauro robot  body attitude stabilizer  attitude balancing strategy  quadrupedal robot  inverse kinematics solution scheme  stable reaction response  smooth reaction response  robot hybrid wheeled-legged mobility system  quadratic programming optimization  Wheels  Legged locomotion  Task analysis  Stability analysis  Kinematics 
Abstract: This work presents a new attitude balancing strategy implemented and validated on a quadrupedal robot equipped with a custom hybrid wheel-legged mobility system. The proposed method uses an inverse kinematics solution scheme based on Quadratic Programming optimization to generate full body motions that ensure the desired balancing performances. The strategy generates a compliant behaviour to cope with the applied external forces resulting in a stable and smooth reaction response. Furthermore, the method takes advantage of the robot hybrid wheeled-legged mobility system to provide new motion capabilities and balancing reactions as it will be shown through the paper. Extensive simulation studies on the Centauro robot are presented. Results show the efficiency of the propose method demonstrating significant contribution in the rejection of the applied external disturbances.


Title: Controlling a Non-Holonomic Mobile Manipulator in a Constrained Floor Space
Key Words: collision avoidance  end effectors  mobile robots  motion control  redundant manipulators  constrained floor space  robotic manipulators  mobile platforms  warehouse shelf stacking  assistive robots  critical time  continuous operation  experienced operator  end-effector workspace  floor obstacles  straightforward control method  time-dependent constraints  time constraints  mobile base trajectory  sensor-assisted obstacle avoidance  freedom mobility  safe obstacle-free time-independent path  5-DoF redundant Planar Mobile Manipulator  9-DoF redundant mobile manipulator  mobile platform motion  allowed obstacle-free path  task completion  nonholonomic mobile manipulator  Manipulators  Task analysis  Trajectory  Hardware  Kinematics  Robot kinematics 
Abstract: Robotic manipulators that are attached to mobile platforms are often used in workspaces that require the end-effector to mobilize beyond the manipulator's limited reach, such as in warehouse shelf stacking and similar applications. However, such assistive robots fall short of completing tasks that require the end-effector to be situated in a specific configuration at a critical time during the task. Traditionally, users control the mobile base to situate the arm such that the task can be completed through continuous operation. This requires an experienced operator who can predict the needed end-effector workspace, and can operate the base accordingly to maximize the likelihood of a successful task while avoiding any floor obstacles. In this work, we propose a straightforward control method that provides sufficient freedom to the end-effector to complete a task that is bound by time-dependent constraints. This is achieved by relaxing the time constraints on the mobile base trajectory in a floor space obstructed by obstacles. The trajectory of the platform is determined by sensor-assisted obstacle avoidance algorithm such that a single degree of freedom mobility can be represented through a safe obstacle-free time-independent path. The proposed control method is implemented in simulation and on physical hardware built in our labs. The simulation included a 5-DoF redundant Planar Mobile Manipulator (PMM). The hardware implementation and testing utilized a 9-DoF redundant mobile manipulator. The implementation results demonstrate the effectiveness of the control method in adjusting the mobile platform motion along its allowed obstacle-free path to enable the end-effector to follow its trajectory for task completion that would otherwise fail to complete when conventional control methods are used.


Title: Dynamic Simulation of Planetary Rovers with Terrain Property Mapping * Research supported by National Natural Science Foundation of China (Grant No. 61370033), National Basic Research Program of China (Grant No. 2013CB035502), Foundation for Innovative Research Groups of the Natural Science Foundation of China (Grant No. 51521003), Foundation of Chinese State Key Laboratory of Robotics and Systems (Grant No. SKLRS201501B, SKLRS20164B), Harbin Applied Technology Project of Research and Development (2015RQQXJ081), and the “111 Project” (Grant No. B07018).
Key Words: cartography  control engineering computing  geometry  Mars  mobile robots  planetary rovers  soil  wheels  digital elevation map  terrain physical properties  terrain pressure-sinkage property  contact model  soil  terramechanics model  shearing property  friction angle  Mars exploration  complex terrains  terrain property mapping  planetary rovers  dynamic simulation  three-wheel-rover  Soil  Mathematical model  Wheels  Stress  Computational modeling  Shearing  Force 
Abstract: Simulation of planetary rovers moving on complex terrains is critical for Mars exploration. Equivalent stiffness is proposed and used to characterize the pressure-sinkage property of terrain, while friction angle to characterize the shearing property. Terramechanics model for calculating forces between rigid wheel and soil is proved to be the same with that contact model for calculating forces between rigid wheel and rock. A Digital Elevation Map with Physical Properties is developed and applied to simulate terrain physical properties along with its geometry information. The established methods are validated using simulation and experimental tests with a three-wheel-rover.


Title: Design Considerations and Redundancy Resolution for Variable Geometry Continuum Robots
Key Words: Jacobian matrices  manipulator kinematics  mobile robots  redundant manipulators  design alternative  kinematic redundancy  kinematic parameter adaptation  continuum robot design  admissible design parameter values  joint forces  gradient descent redundancy resolution problem  variable geometry continuum  joint limits  multibackbone continuum robots  continuum robot segment  situational awareness  task execution performance  Couplings  Kinematics  Elbow  Robot sensing systems  Redundancy  Fasteners  Continuum robots  variable geometry robots  redundancy  angulated scissor mechanism  kinematics 
Abstract: Current multi-backbone continuum robots are limited to a constant cross-sectional diameter. This paper proposes a design alternative that overcomes this limitation. The ability to change the diameter of a continuum robot expands the repertoire of kinematic redundancy and enables kinematic parameter adaptation to optimize performance. A continuum robot design based on the angulated scissor mechanism is presented along with its position analysis. An exploration of admissible design parameter values for a given continuum robot segment with a desired maximum curvature while maintaining an open bore along its center is also carried out. A design presenting how this mechanism can be incorporated into a continuum robot is shown and a strategy for minimizing joint forces and avoiding joint limits is formulated as a gradient descent redundancy resolution problem in a simulation case study. The simulation results show that varying the diameter can significantly reduce joint forces while preserving the workspace and avoiding joint limits. This work is a first step towards continuum robots with situational awareness that will use their sensing capabilities to adapt their structure in order to optimize task execution performance.


Title: Extending a Dynamic Friction Model with Nonlinear Viscous and Thermal Dependency for a Motor and Harmonic Drive Gear
Key Words: brushless DC motors  compensation  electric drives  friction  humanoid robots  manipulator dynamics  dynamic friction model  thermal dependency  robotic actuation  friction behavior  actuator components  friction compensation  output torque estimation  dynamic simulations  brush-less DC motor  harmonic drive gear  humanoid David  DLR Floating Spring Joint  friction models  nonlinear viscous dependency  temperature 24 degC to 50 degC  Friction  Mathematical model  Torque  Gears  Robots  Harmonic analysis  Springs 
Abstract: In robotic actuation a well identified and modeled friction behavior of the actuator components helps to significantly improve friction compensation, output torque estimation, and dynamic simulations. The friction of two components, i.e. a brush-less DC motor and a harmonic drive gear (HD) is investigated in order to build an accurate dynamic model of the main actuator of the arms of the humanoid David namely the DLR Floating Spring Joint (FSJ). A dedicated testbed is built to precisely identify input and output torques, temperatures, positions, and elasticities of the investigated components at a controlled environment temperature. Extensive test series are performed in the full velocity operating range in a temperature interval from 24 to 50 °C. The nonlinear influences of velocity and temperature are identified to be dominant effects. It is proposed how to include these nonlinear velocity and temperature dependencies into a static and a dynamic friction model, e.g. LuGre. Dynamic models of the motor and HD are built with the proposed method and experimentally evaluated. The new models are compared to friction models with linear dependencies and show a significant improvement of correspondence with reality.


Title: Eddy Current Damper Design for Vibration Suppression in Robotic Milling Process
Key Words: damping  design engineering  eddy currents  finite element analysis  frequency response  industrial robots  machine tool spindles  machining chatter  magnetic flux  magnetic forces  mechanical stability  milling  vibration control  robotic milling process  vibration attenuation method  vibration suppression process  tool tip frequency response function  milling spindle tool  chatter stability  magnetic force  magnetic flux density  finite element method  eddy current damper design  Robots  Milling  Damping  Tools  Force  Copper  Vibrations  Robotic milling  eddy current damper  vibration suppression  chatter 
Abstract: This paper presents a novel eddy current damper design for chatter suppression in robotic milling process. The designed eddy current dampers are installed on a milling spindle to damp the tool tip vibrations. The structural design of the eddy current dampers and the working principle of the proposed vibration attenuation method are explained. Finite element method is used to analyze the magnetic flux density and the magnetic force generated by the designed eddy current. The dynamics of the robotic milling system without and with eddy current dampers are modeled, and the damping performance of the proposed method is verified through simulations in both frequency and time domains. The results show that the peaks of the tool tip frequency response function caused by the spindle and milling tool modes are damped by 3.2 dB and 5.3 dB, respectively, and the chatter stability is improved by about 43% in the high spindle speed zone, compared to the case without eddy current dampers.


Title: Compliant Manipulation of Free-Floating Objects
Key Words: force control  force sensors  manipulators  minimisation  motion control  position control  interaction forces  direct force control  implicit force control algorithms  compliant manipulation  free-floating objects  compliant motions  reaction forces  constant force  manipulator inertia  KUKA LWR4+ manipulator arm  Manipulators  Force  Force control  Impedance  Damping  Aerospace electronics 
Abstract: Compliant motions allow alignment of workpieces using naturally occurring interaction forces. However, free-floating objects do not have a fixed base to absorb the reaction forces caused by the interactions. Consequently, if the interaction forces are too high, objects can gain momentum and move away after contact. This paper proposes an approach based on direct force control for compliant manipulation of free-floating objects. The objective of the controller is to minimize the interaction forces while maintaining the contact. The proposed approach achieves this by maintaining small constant force along the motion direction and an apparent reduction of manipulator inertia along remaining Degrees of Freedom (DOF). Simulation results emphasize the importance of relative inertia of the robotic manipulator with respect to the free-floating object. The experiments were performed with KUKA LWR4+ manipulator arm and a two-dimensional micro-gravity emulator (object floating on an air bed), which was developed in-house. It was verified that the proposed control law is capable of controlling the interaction forces and aligning the tools without pushing the object away. We conclude that direct force control works better with a free-floating object than implicit force control algorithms, such as impedance control.


Title: Validation of the Robot Rendezvous and Grasping Manoeuvre Using Microgravity Simulators
Key Words: aerospace robotics  artificial satellites  control system synthesis  end effectors  industrial robots  multi-robot systems  path planning  space debris  space vehicles  robot rendezvous  grasping manoeuvre  unmanned chaser satellite  performing rendezvous  grasping manoeuvres  space debris  manoeuvres high disturbances  manipulator arm end-effector  robotic subsystem  chaser rendezvous  planar air-bearing microgravity simulators  industrial robots  specified test-bed system  Manipulators  Satellites  Orbits  Space vehicles  Service robots  Control systems 
Abstract: Robots mounted on an unmanned chaser satellite could be used for performing rendezvous and grasping manoeuvres in order to repair satellites or remove space debris from orbit. Use of manipulators for such purposes is challenging, since the performed task need to be done autonomously, accurately and with high level of robustness. During manoeuvres high disturbances might appear e.g. due to contact between the manipulator arm end-effector and the target spacecraft. In this paper an approach for validation of the robotic subsystem during chaser rendezvous and grasping manoeuvre has been shown. Two type of testbed systems were used: planar air-bearing microgravity simulators and a test-bed system with industrial robots. The proposed approach took advantage of possible replacement of particular subsystem in reference model or reference hardware in specified test-bed system. The list of tests performed are included in the paper.


Title: Workspace Fixation for Free-Floating Space Robot Operations
Key Words: aerospace robotics  end effectors  mobile robots  CoM  degree-of-freedom  free-floating space robot operations  workspace fixation  6DOF moving base  center-of-mass regulation  end-effector  Manipulators  Symmetric matrices  Fuels  Robot kinematics  Satellites 
Abstract: When a space robot accidentally or voluntarily comes in contact with a target object, a workspace shift happens due to exchange of momentum between the objects. The problem of workspace adjustment is addressed herein. A novel controller is derived to simultaneously adjust the workspace and control the end-effector pose. The controller is based on a center-of-mass (CoM) regulation which fixes the workspace in the inertial space while leaving the base free to move, resulting in fuel efficiency. The control is validated on hardware using a robotic simulator composed of a seven degree-of-freedom (DOF) arm mounted on a 6DOF moving base.


Title: Kinematic Design Optimization of a Parallel Surgical Robot to Maximize Anatomical Visibility via Motion Planning
Key Words: biological tissues  manipulator kinematics  medical robotics  motion control  needles  optimisation  path planning  simulated annealing  surgery  tissue surface  CRISP robot  parallel structure connection points  global stochastic optimization algorithm  kinematic design optimization  parallel surgical robot  Continuum Reconfigurable Incisionless Surgical Parallel robot  needle-diameter medical robot  minimally invasive procedures  motion planning  anatomical visibility  adaptive simulated annealing  ASA  Electron tubes  Kinematics  Collision avoidance  Robot kinematics  Cameras  Robot vision systems 
Abstract: We introduce a method to optimize on a patient-specific basis the kinematic design of the Continuum Reconfigurable Incisionless Surgical Parallel (CRISP) robot, a needle-diameter medical robot based on a parallel structure that is capable of performing minimally invasive procedures. Our objective is to maximize the ability of the robot's tip camera to view tissue surfaces in constrained spaces. The kinematic design of the CRISP robot, which greatly influences its ability to perform a task, includes parameters that are fixed before the procedure begins, such as entry points into the body and parallel structure connection points. We combine a global stochastic optimization algorithm, Adaptive Simulated Annealing (ASA), with a motion planner designed specifically for the CRISP robot. ASA facilitates exploration of the robot's design space while the motion planner enables evaluation of candidate designs based on their ability to successfully view target regions on a tissue surface. By leveraging motion planning, we ensure that the evaluation of a design only considers motions which do not collide with the patient's anatomy. We analytically show that the method asymptotically converges to a globally optimal solution and demonstrate our algorithm's ability to optimize kinematic designs of the CRISP robot on a patient-specific basis.


Title: Workspace, Transmissibility and Dynamics of a New 3T3R Parallel Pick-and-place Robot with High Rotational Capability
Key Words: actuators  end effectors  manipulator dynamics  manipulator kinematics  3-axis translations  rotations  robot end-effector  orientational workspace  gearbox  workspace volume  commercial Delta-type robots  high-speed parallel robot  6-axis Delta-type robot  structural complexity  rotational capability  3T3R parallel pick-and-place robot  commercial actuation combination  Robot kinematics  Manipulators  Actuators  Kinematics  Service robots  Dynamics 
Abstract: This paper presents a six-limb high-speed parallel robot for pick-and-place operations that is based on two Delta robots, where the two sub-platforms are connected by a gearbox. Unlike the current 6-axis Delta-type robot, all the actuators of the robot are mounted on a base platform, allowing to reduce the inertia for high dynamic performance. Besides the 3-axis translations, the three rotations of the robot end-effector are realized by the differential motions of the two sub-platforms in three directions for large orientational workspace, but without significantly increased structural complexity of gearbox, compared to the existing one. The kinematic problems are studied to reveal that the workspace volume of the robot is similar to the commercial Delta-type robots. The simplified dynamic model is established and the simulation results show that the robot can reach up to a 20G acceleration subject to the commercial actuation combination.


Title: Available Wrench Set for Planar Mobile Cable-Driven Parallel Robots
Key Words: cables (mechanical)  end effectors  manipulator kinematics  mobile robots  robot dynamics  geometric architecture  parallel manipulators  convex hull methods  hyperplane shifting methods  point-mass end-effector  static equilibrium  mobile cable-driven parallel robots  available wrench set  Task analysis  Parallel robots  Power cables  Collision avoidance  Prototypes  Wheels 
Abstract: Cable-Driven Parallel Robots (CDPRs) have several advantages over conventional parallel manipulators most notably a large workspace. CDPRs whose workspace can be further increased by modification of the geometric architecture are known as Reconfigurable Cable Driven Parallel Robots(RCDPRs). A novel concept of RCDPRs, known as Mobile CDPR (MCDPR) that consists of a CDPR carried by multiple mobile bases, is studied in this paper. The system is capable of autonomously navigating to a desired location then deploying to a standard CDPR. In this paper, we analyze the Static equilibrium (SE) of the mobile bases when the system is fully deployed. In contrast to classical CDPRs we show that the workspace of the MCDPR depends, not only on the tension limits, but on the SE constraints as well. We demonstrate how to construct the Available Wrench Set (AWS) for a planar MCDPR wih a point-mass end-effector using both the convex hull and Hyperplane shifting methods. The obtained results are validated in simulation and on an experimental platform consisting of two mobile bases and a CDPR with four cables.


Title: Algorithm for Optimal Chance Constrained Knapsack Problem with Applications to Multi-Robot Teaming
Key Words: autonomous aerial vehicles  concave programming  knapsack problems  mobile robots  multi-robot systems  stochastic programming  chance-constrained 0-1 knapsack problem  variance-mean plane  deterministic knapsack problems  multirobot team selection problem  optimal chance constrained knapsack problem  2D discrete optimization problem  risk-averse knapsack problem  Robots  Optimization  Random variables  Task analysis  Batteries  Linear programming  Approximation algorithms 
Abstract: Motivated by applications in multirobot team selection, in this paper, we present a novel algorithm for computing optimal solution of chance-constrained 0-1 knapsack problem. In this variation of the knapsack problem, the objective function is deterministic but the weights of the items are stochastic and therefore the knapsack constraint is stochastic. We convert the chance-constrained knapsack problem to a two-dimensional discrete optimization problem on the variance-mean plane, where each point on the plane can be identified with an assignment of items to the knapsack. By exploiting the geometry of the non-convex feasible region of the chance-constrained knapsack problem in the variance-mean plane, we present a novel deterministic technique to find an optimal solution by solving a sequence of deterministic knapsack problems (called risk-averse knapsack problem). We apply our algorithm to a multirobot team selection problem to cover a given route, where the length of the route is much larger than the length each individual robot can fly and the length that an individual robot can fly is a random variable (with known mean and variance). We present simulation results on randomly generated data to demonstrate that our approach is scalable with both the number of robots and increasing uncertainty of the distance an individual robot can travel.


Title: Planning-Aware Communication for Decentralised Multi-Robot Coordination
Key Words: control engineering computing  mobile robots  Monte Carlo methods  multi-robot systems  path planning  planning (artificial intelligence)  statistical distributions  tree searching  decentralised multirobot coordination  coordinated multirobot missions  polynomial-time belief-space planning algorithm  informative communication planning  planning-aware communication  multirobot information gathering  robot simulation  decentralised Monte Carlo tree search  Planning  Robot kinematics  Prediction algorithms  Probability distribution  Australia  Cognition 
Abstract: We present an algorithm for selecting when to communicate during online planning phases of coordinated multi-robot missions. The key idea is that a robot decides to request communication from another robot by reasoning over the predicted information value of communication messages over a sliding time-horizon, where communication messages are probability distributions over action sequences. We formulate this problem in the context of the recently proposed decentralised Monte Carlo tree search (Dec-MCTS) algorithm for online, decentralised multi-robot coordination. We propose a particle filter for predicting the information value, and a polynomial-time belief-space planning algorithm for finding the optimal communication schedules in an online and decentralised manner. We evaluate the benefit of informative communication planning for a multi-robot information gathering scenario with 8 simulated robots. Our results show reductions in channel utilisation of up to four-fifths with surprisingly little impact on coordination performance.


Title: Multi-Robot Realization Based on Goal Adjacency Constraints
Key Words: closed loop systems  matrix algebra  mobile robots  multi-robot systems  navigation  path planning  position control  velocity control  pairwise distances  velocity-controlled robot  multirobot realization  goal adjacency constraints  robot positions  exact goal positions  relative distances  pairwise adjacency constraints  multirobots  adjacency matrix  adjacency threshold  robot pairs  coordinated navigation  closed-loop dynamics  Conferences  Automation  Australia 
Abstract: This paper considers the problem of multi-robot realization. A realization is a set of robot positions where pairwise distances are either bounded from above or from below by a given adjacency threshold - depending on whether the respective robot pairs are to be adjacent or not. In the realization problem, unlike the related coordinated navigation or formation control problems, exact goal positions or relative distances need not be specified. Rather, only pairwise adjacency constraints are given and the robots' positions are required to satisfy these constraints. Applications of realization problem include multi-robots involved in team games (playing soccer, etc), patrolling and area coverage. We present a novel solution to this problem in which the robots simultaneously navigate to find a realization of a given adjacency matrix without colliding with each other along the way. In this solution, complete information about pairwise distances and free configuration space are encoded using an artificial potential function over the cross product space of the robots' simultaneous positions and proximity variables. The closed-loop dynamics governing the motion of each velocity-controlled robot take the form of the appropriate projection of the gradient of this function while pairwise distances are adjusted accordingly. Our extensive simulations demonstrate that the proposed approach has considerably higher realization percentage and shorter movement distances in comparison to a standard 2-stage approach.


Title: Cooperative Object Transport in 3D with Multiple Quadrotors Using No Peer Communication
Key Words: aerospace robotics  asymptotic stability  compensation  controllability  distributed control  helicopters  mobile robots  trajectory optimisation (aerospace)  exponential stability  distributed compensation scheme  controllability  local optimization problem  entire assembly  distributed wrench controller  rigidly attached quadrotor aerial robots  multiple quadrotors  subsequent trajectory optimization  output wrench space  control wrench  group control authority  Robot kinematics  Trajectory  Torque  Three-dimensional displays  Payloads  Unmanned aerial vehicles 
Abstract: We present a framework to enable a fleet of rigidly attached quadrotor aerial robots to transport heavy objects along a known reference trajectory without inter-robot communication or centralized coordination. Leveraging a distributed wrench controller, we provide exponential stability guarantees for the entire assembly, under a mild geometric condition. This is achieved by each quadrotor independently solving a local optimization problem to counteract the biased torque effects from each robot in the assembly. We rigorously analyze the controllability of the object, design a distributed compensation scheme to address these challenges, and show that the resulting strategy collectively guarantees full group control authority. To ensure feasibility for online implementation, we derive bounds on the net desired control wrench, characterize the output wrench space of each quadrotor, and perform subsequent trajectory optimization under these input constraints. We thoroughly validate our method in simulation with eight quadrotors transporting a heavy object in a cluttered environment subject to various sources of uncertainty, and demonstrate the algorithm's resilience.


Title: An Energy-Based Approach for the Multi-Rate Control of a Manipulator on an Actuated Base
Key Words: aerospace robotics  damping  manipulators  observers  stability  vibration control  energy-based approach  multirate control  robotic system  actuated floating base  space applications  stability issues  time domain passivity approach  base-manipulator multibody simulation  passivity-based stabilizing controller  energy observer design  Manipulators  Satellites  Jacobian matrices  Stability analysis  Delays  Time-domain analysis 
Abstract: In this paper we address the problem of controlling a robotic system mounted on an actuated floating base for space applications. In particular, we investigate the stability issues due to the low rate of the base control unit. We propose a passivity-based stabilizing controller based on the time domain passivity approach. The controller uses a variable damper regulated by a designed energy observer. The effectiveness of the proposed strategy is validated on a base-manipulator multibody simulation.


Title: Optimal Intermittent Deployment and Sensor Selection for Environmental Sensing with Multi-Robot Teams
Key Words: decision theory  Markov processes  multi-robot systems  partial environmental information  optimal policy  optimal intermittent deployment  multirobot team  environmental sensing problem  team composition  environmental process  heterogeneous robots  heterogeneous robot teams  sensor types  sensor selection policy  Robot sensing systems  Robot kinematics  Markov processes  Computational modeling  Delays 
Abstract: In this paper, we formulate an environmental sensing problem for multi-robot teams that couples intermittent deployments with the selection of team composition and sensor type over time. We suppose that a multi-robot team needs to autonomously sense an environmental process and find the optimal policy for deploying heterogeneous robots. In addition, heterogeneous robot teams can be composed in various ways by selecting different mobility and sensor types which have varying accuracies and costs, resulting in a more complex problem. The question is then how to find an optimal intermittent deployment and sensor selection policy that captures both cost and estimation accuracy based on partial environmental information. By utilizing structural results from partially observable Markov decision processes (POMDP) and exploiting submodularity, an optimal policy, which minimizes cost while maintaining a high accuracy, can be achieved in this paper. The effectiveness of this method is demonstrated by simulation results and comparisons with naive policies.


Title: Cooperative Object Transportation by Multiple Ground and Aerial Vehicles: Modeling and Planning
Key Words: cables (mechanical)  dynamic programming  mobile robots  multi-robot systems  optimal control  path planning  planning problems  aerial robots  transportation task  ground robots  nonrigid inextensible cables  heterogeneous multirobot system  multiple aerial vehicles  general constrained optimal planning problem  multiple ground vehicles  cooperative object transportation  modeling problems  dynamic programming  Vehicle dynamics  Manipulators  Load modeling  Unmanned aerial vehicles  Dynamics 
Abstract: In this paper the modeling and planning problems of a system composed of multiple ground and aerial robots involved in a transportation task are considered. The ground robots rigidly grasp a load, while the aerial vehicles are attached to the object through non-rigid inextensible cables. The idea behind such a heterogeneous multi-robot system is to benefit of the advantages of both types of robots that might be the precision of ground robots, the increased payload of multiple aerial vehicles and their larger workspace. The overall model of the system is derived and its expression and redundancy are exploited by setting a general constrained optimal planning problem. The problem is herein solved by dynamic programming and simulation results validated the proposed scheme.


Title: Data-Driven Approach to Simulating Realistic Human Joint Constraints
Key Words: backpropagation  human-robot interaction  neural nets  optimisation  physical human-robot interaction  physics simulation  implicit equation  human data  physics engine  data-driven approach  human joint limits  joint motion  realistic human joint limits  human joint configurations  realistic human joint constraints  backpropagation  optimization problem  fully connected neural network  Joints  Mathematical model  Physics  Robots  Neural networks  Elbow  Computational modeling 
Abstract: Modeling realistic human joint limits is important for applications involving physical human-robot interaction. However, setting appropriate human joint limits is challenging because it is pose-dependent: the range of joint motion varies depending on the positions of other bones. The paper introduces a new technique to accurately simulate human joint limits in physics simulation. We propose to learn an implicit equation to represent the boundary of valid human joint configurations from real human data. The function in the implicit equation is represented by a fully connected neural network whose gradients can be efficiently computed via back-propagation. Using gradients, we can efficiently enforce realistic human joint limits through constraint forces in a physics engine or as constraints in an optimization problem.


Title: Socially Compliant Navigation Through Raw Depth Inputs with Generative Adversarial Imitation Learning
Key Words: learning (artificial intelligence)  mobile robots  path planning  socially compliant navigation  raw depth inputs  mobile robots  socially compliant manner  generative adversarial imitation learning strategy  raw sensory input  GAIL-based approach  behavior cloning policy  social force model  Force  Navigation  Cloning  Sensors  Mobile robots  Learning (artificial intelligence)  Visualization 
Abstract: We present an approach for mobile robots to learn to navigate in dynamic environments with pedestrians via raw depth inputs, in a socially compliant manner. To achieve this, we adopt a generative adversarial imitation learning (GAIL) strategy, which improves upon a pre-trained behavior cloning policy. Our approach overcomes the disadvantages of previous methods, as they heavily depend on the full knowledge of the location and velocity information of nearby pedestrians, which not only requires specific sensors, but also the extraction of such state information from raw sensory input could consume much computation time. In this paper, our proposed GAIL-based model performs directly on raw depth inputs and plans in real-time. Experiments show that our GAIL-based approach greatly improves the safety and efficiency of the behavior of mobile robots from pure behavior cloning. The real-world deployment also shows that our method is capable of guiding autonomous vehicles to navigate in a socially compliant manner directly through raw depth inputs. In addition, we release a simulation plugin for modeling pedestrian behaviors based on the social force model.


Title: Imitation from Observation: Learning to Imitate Behaviors from Raw Video via Context Translation
Key Words: learning by example  robot programming  video signal processing  context translation  observation-action tuples  supervised learning algorithm  imitation-from-observation  deep reinforcement learning  video prediction  raw video  robotic skills learning  imitation learning  Task analysis  Robots  Context modeling  Learning (artificial intelligence)  Visualization  Tools  Cloning 
Abstract: Imitation learning is an effective approach for autonomous systems to acquire control policies when an explicit reward function is unavailable, using supervision provided as demonstrations from an expert, typically a human operator. However, standard imitation learning methods assume that the agent receives examples of observation-action tuples that could be provided, for instance, to a supervised learning algorithm. This stands in contrast to how humans and animals imitate: we observe another person performing some behavior and then figure out which actions will realize that behavior, compensating for changes in viewpoint, surroundings, object positions and types, and other factors. We term this kind of imitation learning “imitation-from-observation,” and propose an imitation learning method based on video prediction with context translation and deep reinforcement learning. This lifts the assumption in imitation learning that the demonstration should consist of observations in the same environment configuration, and enables a variety of interesting applications, including learning robotic skills that involve tool use simply by observing videos of human tool use. Our experimental results show the effectiveness of our approach in learning a wide range of real-world robotic tasks modeled after common household chores from videos of a human demonstrator, including sweeping, ladling almonds, pushing objects as well as a number of tasks in simulation.


Title: Incremental Task Modification via Corrective Demonstrations
Key Words: autoregressive processes  Bayes methods  finite state machines  hidden Markov models  intelligent robots  manipulators  Incremental Task Modification via Corrective Demonstrations  state transition auto-regressive hidden Markov model  probabilistic properties  simulated block sorting domain  real-world pouring task  ITMCD Model Selection  approximate Bayesian model selection  FSA  finite state automaton representation  Hidden Markov models  Task analysis  Robots  Computational modeling  Adaptation models  Probabilistic logic  Bayes methods 
Abstract: In realistic environments, fully specifying a task model such that a robot can perform a task in all situations is impractical. In this work, we present Incremental Task Modification via Corrective Demonstrations (ITMCD), a novel algorithm that allows a robot to update a learned model by making use of corrective demonstrations from an end-user in its environment. We propose three different types of model updates that make structural changes to a finite state automaton (FSA) representation of the task by first converting the FSA into a state transition auto-regressive hidden Markov model (STARHMM). The STARHMM's probabilistic properties are then used to perform approximate Bayesian model selection to choose the best model update, if any. We evaluate ITMCD Model Selection in a simulated block sorting domain and the full algorithm on a real-world pouring task. The simulation results show our approach can choose new task models that sufficiently incorporate new demonstrations while remaining as simple as possible. The results from the pouring task show that ITMCD performs well when the modeled segments of the corrective demonstrations closely comply with the original task model.


Title: Design, modeling and control of t3-multirotor: a tilting thruster type multirotor
Key Words: aerospace components  attitude control  helicopters  large-scale systems  servomechanisms  tilting thruster type multirotor  mechanically separated thrusters  fuselage posture  relative attitude control  T3-multirotor  translational acceleration  servo-linkage mechanism  dynamically complex system  autonomous level flight  Servomotors  Mathematical model  Force  Torque  Dynamics  Attitude control  Analytical models 
Abstract: This paper presents a new design of multirotor, named as `Tilting Thruster Type' (T3)-multirotor. The new platform is equipped with mechanically separated thrusters, which can take any fuselage posture within a specified range regardless of any direction of translational acceleration. A specially designed servo-linkage mechanism is employed for relative attitude control between the thruster and the fuselage. Mathematical modeling and analysis of the new platform are conducted to explore the control method of the dynamically complex system. For demonstrating the potential of the new T3-multirotor, an autonomous level flight is performed where the fuselage maintains zero roll and pitch angle during the entire flight. Both simulation and experimental results are provided with detailed analysis.


Title: Design and Analysis of a Fixed-Wing Unmanned Aerial-Aquatic Vehicle
Key Words: aerospace components  autonomous aerial vehicles  autonomous underwater vehicles  closed loop systems  mobile robots  optimisation  fixed-wing unmanned aerial-aquatic vehicle  fixed-wing vehicle  aerobatic post-stall maneuvers  water-to-air transition execution  direct hybrid trajectory optimization  closed-loop control  Propellers  Vehicle dynamics  Prototypes  Unmanned aerial vehicles  Design tools 
Abstract: In this paper, we describe the design and analysis of a fixed-wing unmanned aerial-aquatic vehicle. Inspired by prior work in aerobatic post-stall maneuvers for fixed-wing vehicles [1], we explore the feasibility of executing a water-to-air transition with a fixed-wing vehicle using almost entirely commercial off-the-shelf components (excluding the fuselage). To do this, we first propose a conceptual design based on observations about the dominant forces and dimensionless analysis. We then further refine this concept by building a design tool based on simplified models to explore the design space. To verify the results of the design tool, we use a higher fidelity model along with a direct hybrid trajectory optimization approach to show via numerical simulation that the water-to-air transition is feasible. Finally, we successfully test our design experimentally by hand-piloting a prototype vehicle through the water-to-air transition and discuss our approach for replacing the human-pilot with closed-loop control.


Title: Design, Modeling and Control of a Solar-Powered Quadcopter
Key Words: aerodynamics  aerospace control  control system synthesis  energy harvesting  feedback  helicopters  solar powered vehicles  virtualisation  long-endurance missions  aerodynamic  feedback control system  virtual simulation  solar energy harvesting capabilities  solar-powered quadcopter  Solar panels  Prototypes  Batteries  Photovoltaic cells  Payloads  Propellers  Aerodynamics  Solar Energy  Quadcopter  System Design  Vehicle Control 
Abstract: This paper presents the design, modeling, control, and experimental test of a solar-powered quadcopter to allow for long-endurance missions. We first present the design of a large-scale quadcopter that incorporates solar energy harvesting capabilities. Based on the design results, we built the dynamical model of the customized quadcopter with analysis of the aerodynamic influence. A feedback control system is developed for the solar-powered quadcopter that takes into account the wind disturbance and is verified in virtual simulation examples. All parameters used in the modeling and simulations are based on a developed prototype of the solar-powered quadcopter. Flight tests with the prototype are presented to validate the feasibility and theoretical basis of the solar-powered quadcopter.


Title: Distributed Multi-Robot Cooperation for Information Gathering Under Communication Constraints
Key Words: cooperative systems  decision making  distributed control  Gaussian processes  multi-robot systems  path planning  Gaussian processes  path planning  path clustering  multi-robot exploration  inter-robot communication constraints  information-theoretic utility function  Max-sum algorithm  distributed decision-making algorithm  multirobot information gathering  inter-robot restrictions  distributed multirobot cooperation  Clustering algorithms  Robot kinematics  Robot sensing systems  Heuristic algorithms  Linear programming 
Abstract: Many recent works have proposed algorithms for information gathering that benefit from multi-robot cooperation. However, most algorithms either employ discretization of the state and action spaces, which makes them computationally intractable for robotic systems with complex dynamics; or cannot deal with inter-robot restrictions like e.g. communication constraints. This paper presents an approach for multi-robot information gathering that tackles the two aforementioned issues. To this end we propose an algorithm that combines in an innovative manner Gaussian processes (GPs) to model the physical process of interest, RRT planners to plan paths in a continuous domain, and a distributed decision-making algorithm to achieve multi-robot cooperation. Specifically, we employ the Max-sum algorithm for distributed multi-robot cooperation by defining an information-theoretic utility function together with a path clustering approach. This function maximizes information gathering, subject to inter-robot communication constraints. We validate the proposed approach in simulations, and in a field experiment where three quadcopters explore a simulated wind field. Results demonstrate the effectiveness of the approach.


Title: GOMSF: Graph-Optimization Based Multi-Sensor Fusion for robust UAV Pose estimation
Key Words: autonomous aerial vehicles  distance measurement  graph theory  Kalman filters  mobile robots  nonlinear filters  optimisation  pose estimation  robot vision  sensor fusion  SLAM (robots)  GOMSF  proprioceptive measurements  exteroceptive measurements  navigation algorithms  agile mobile robots  Unmanned Aerial Vehicles  UAV pose estimation  graph optimization based multisensor fusion  6 Degree-of-Freedom visual-inertial odometry poses  extended Kalman filter  Robot sensing systems  Robot kinematics  Optimization  Pose estimation  Global Positioning System  Time measurement 
Abstract: Achieving accurate, high-rate pose estimates from proprioceptive and/or exteroceptive measurements is the first step in the development of navigation algorithms for agile mobile robots such as Unmanned Aerial Vehicles (UAVs). In this paper, we propose a decoupled Graph-Optimization based Multi-Sensor Fusion approach (GOMSF) that combines generic 6 Degree-of-Freedom (DoF) visual-inertial odometry poses and 3 DoF globally referenced positions to infer the global 6 DoF pose of the robot in real-time. Our approach casts the fusion as a real-time alignment problem between the local base frame of the visual-inertial odometry and the global base frame. The alignment transformation that relates these coordinate systems is continuously updated by optimizing a sliding window pose graph containing the most recent robot's states. We evaluate the presented pose estimation method on both simulated data and large outdoor experiments using a small UAV that is capable to run our system onboard. Results are compared against different state-of-the-art sensor fusion frameworks, revealing that the proposed approach is substantially more accurate than other decoupled fusion strategies. We also demonstrate comparable results in relation with a finely tuned Extended Kalman Filter that fuses visual, inertial and GPS measurements in a coupled way and show that our approach is generic enough to deal with different input sources in a straightforward manner. Video - https//youtu.be/GIZNSZ2soL8.


Title: Deep Inference for Covariance Estimation: Learning Gaussian Noise Models for State Estimation
Key Words: covariance analysis  Gaussian noise  image representation  learning (artificial intelligence)  measurement errors  measurement uncertainty  neural nets  regression analysis  state estimation  raw sensor data  raw sensor measurement  ground-truth measurement error  measurement model  prediction performance  covariance prediction  state Estimation  measurement covariance estimation  deep neural network  Gaussian noise models  measurement uncertainty  deep inference for covariance estimation  predictive sensor modeling  hand-coded features  Robot sensing systems  Measurement uncertainty  Measurement errors  Covariance matrices  Predictive models  Estimation  Neural networks 
Abstract: We present a novel method of measurement covariance estimation that models measurement uncertainty as a function of the measurement itself. Existing work in predictive sensor modeling outperforms conventional fixed models, but requires domain knowledge of the sensors that heavily influences the accuracy and the computational cost of the models. In this work, we introduce Deep Inference for Covariance Estimation (DICE), which utilizes a deep neural network to predict the covariance of a sensor measurement from raw sensor data. We show that given pairs of raw sensor measurement and ground-truth measurement error, we can learn a representation of the measurement model via supervised regression on the prediction performance of the model, eliminating the need for hand-coded features and parametric forms. Our approach is sensor-agnostic, and we demonstrate improved covariance prediction on both simulated and real data.


Title: A Study on Optimal Placement of Accelerometers for Pose Estimation of a Robot Arm
Key Words: accelerometers  end effectors  legged locomotion  mobile robots  Monte Carlo methods  pose estimation  position control  prosthetics  sensors  optimal placement  accelerometers  inertial sensor placement  noise characteristics  joint angle encoders  end-effector positioning  legged locomotion  dual arm  prosthetic limbs  inertial measurement units  artificial skin patches  noise properties  signal-to-noise Ratio  micromachined sensors  two-link robot arm  expected estimation error metric values  accelerometer configurations  optimal number  arm pose estimation error  SNR  Monte-Carlo simulations  robot arm pose estimation  IMU  Robot sensing systems  Accelerometers  Manipulators  Pose estimation  Robot kinematics 
Abstract: This study investigates the effects of inertial sensor placement and noise characteristics on the accuracy of robot pose estimation. Of course, most robots are equipped with joint angle encoders for pose estimation and end-effector positioning. However, in some situations, it's not possible or not desirable to introduce encoders on all joints. Such common examples include legged locomotion, dual arm co-manipulation, and prosthetic limbs. To tackle such situations, one solution is to embed inertial measurement units (IMUs) into artificial skin patches placed on robots' limbs and body. This work analyzes the effects of design parameters such as the number of sensors, their placement on the robot, and noise properties on the quality of robot pose estimation and its signal-to-noise Ratio (SNR). We study the benefits of using a large number of IMUs, which is possible due to the proliferation of inexpensive micro-machined sensors. We use Monte-Carlo simulations and experiments with a two-link robot arm to obtain the distributions of expected estimation error metric values for several accelerometer configurations, which are then compared to determine the optimal number and placement for the IMUs. Results show that the placement of at least two accelerometers on each link has the most significant impact on the pose estimation error, while using a larger number of accelerometers plays a less significant role in reducing the arm pose estimation error and resultant SNR.


Title: Locomotion Envelopes for Adaptive Control of Powered Ankle Prostheses
Key Words: adaptive control  gait analysis  Gaussian processes  medical robotics  prosthetics  regression analysis  Gaussian process regression  human subjects walking  locomotion variables  nonlinear manifolds  anthropomorphic control  impedance control  adaptive control  powered ankle foot prosthesis  locomotion envelope  gait-cycle duration  temporal evolution  velocity range  Legged locomotion  Prosthetics  Impedance  Manifolds  Kernel  Gaussian processes  Robustness 
Abstract: In this paper we combine Gaussian process regression and impedance control, to illicit robust, anthropomorphic, adaptive control of a powered ankle prosthesis. We learn the non-linear manifolds which guide how locomotion variables temporally evolve, and regress that surface over a velocity range to create a manifold. The joint set of manifolds, as well as the temporal evolution of the gait-cycle duration is what we term a locomotion envelope. Current powered prostheses have problems adapting across speeds. It is likely that humans rely upon a control strategy which is adaptable, can become more robust and accurate with more data and provides a nonparametric approach which allows the strategy to grow with the number of observations. We demonstrate such a strategy in this study and successfully simulate locomotion well beyond our training data. The method we propose is based on common physical features observed in numerous human subjects walking at different speeds. Based on the derived locomotion envelopes we show that ankle power increases monotonically with speed among all subjects. We demonstrate our methods in simulation and human experiments, on a powered ankle foot prosthesis to demonstrate the effectiveness of the method.


Title: Modeling and Characterization of a Potential Bladder Based Orthotic Device to Mitigate Shoe Slip
Key Words: accident prevention  footwear  friction  orthotics  physiological models  wearable robots  friction force  valves  slip event  impact force  bladder walls  contact forces  slip-mitigating potential  orthotic device  intelligent orthotic shoe  longitudinal slip  shoe slip  bladder based orthotic device  rubberized shoe sole  robotic shoes  slip-fall accidents  Bladder  Atmospheric modeling  Conferences  Automation  Australia  Friction 
Abstract: The exploration of an “intelligent” orthotic shoe sole to negate, or minimize, longitudinal slip by momentarily increasing friction force is presented. The conceptual device takes the form of a rubberized shoe sole containing pockets of air that can be released via valves controlled by a microprocessor. During a slip event, the valves would be opened and the bladders would be collapsed by the weight of the user, which modulates contact and friction forces. The goal is to increase friction forces in this process, by creating an impact force between the user and ground surface, with the potential to increase friction and mitigate slip. Simulations of bladder walls, air flow through valves, contact forces, and friction forces are modeled and combined into a lumped parameter model to predict device behavior. Prototypes of the device are created and evaluated to validate models and slip-mitigating potential.


Title: Reliably Arranging Objects in Uncertain Domains
Key Words: learning (artificial intelligence)  manipulators  mobile robots  multi-robot systems  path planning  control uncertainty  conformant planning approach  robot manipulation  multiple planar objects  specified arrangement  external sensing  belief-state planning problem  initial belief state  forward belief-state planning  deterministic belief-state transition model  off-line physics simulations  on-line physics-based manipulation approach  physical robot experiments  uncertain domains  Planning  Robot sensing systems  Task analysis  Reliability  Computational modeling  Uncertainty 
Abstract: A crucial challenge in robotics is achieving reliable results in spite of sensing and control uncertainty. In this work, we explore the conformant planning approach to robot manipulation. In particular, we tackle the problem of pushing multiple planar objects simultaneously to achieve a specified arrangement without external sensing. Conformant planning is a belief-state planning problem. A belief state is the set of all possible states of the world, and the goal is to find a sequence of actions that will bring an initial belief state to a goal belief state. To do forward belief-state planning, we created a deterministic belief-state transition model from supervised learning based on off-line physics simulations. We compare our method with an on-line physics-based manipulation approach and show significantly reduced planning times and increased robustness in simulated experiments. Finally, we demonstrate the success of this approach in simulations and physical robot experiments.


Title: Fast Planning for 3D Any-Pose-Reorienting Using Pivoting
Key Words: dexterous manipulators  geometry  grippers  mesh generation  solid modelling  fast planning  two-finger pinch gripper  3D mesh model  gripper motions  arbitrary object  grasping positions  gripper poses  motion primitives  compliant rolling  planning problem  object shapes  nontrivial geometry  gripper workspace  3D Any-pose-reorienting  mesh models approximation  pivoting  Grippers  Planning  Gravity  Robots  Three-dimensional displays  Friction 
Abstract: In this paper, we consider reorienting 3D objects on a table using a two-finger pinch gripper. Given the 3D mesh model of the object, our algorithm solves for the gripper motions that are required to transit between arbitrary object poses, grasping positions and gripper poses. The two motion primitives we used, pivoting and compliant rolling, enable us to decompose the planning problem and solve it more efficiently. Our algorithm can work with approximated (simplified) mesh models while being robust to approximation errors, thereby allowing us to efficiently handle object shapes with originally thousands of facets. We show the effectiveness of the proposed method by testing on objects with non-trivial geometry in both simulations and experiments. Results show that our algorithm can solve a larger range of reorienting problems with less number of making and breaking contacts when compared to traditional pick-and-place based methods, especially when the gripper workspace is highly constrained.


Title: Modeling and Control of Brachiating Robots Traversing Flexible Cables
Key Words: cables (mechanical)  legged locomotion  manipulator dynamics  motion control  optimal control  torque control  trajectory control  vibration control  brachiating robots  coupling soft junctions  multiple-shooting  parametric trajectory approaches  catenary cable  energy-efficient continuous brachiation  optimal torque profiles  control torque profiles  optimized trajectories  robot locomotion  cable vibration  energy-minimizing optimal control strategy  two-link robot  multibody system  flexible cable  two-link underactuated brachiating robot  locomotion control  dynamic modeling  Junctions  Mathematical model  Grippers  Legged locomotion  Trajectory  Robot kinematics 
Abstract: This paper describes the dynamic modeling and locomotion control of a two-link underactuated brachiating robot traversing a flexible cable. A multi-body system comprised of a two-link robot, a flexible cable, and coupling soft junctions is modeled dynamically. This model is used to formulate an energy-minimizing optimal control strategy that includes the effects of cable vibration induced by robot locomotion. Optimized trajectories and control torque profiles are obtained via multiple-shooting and parametric trajectory approaches. Simulation results show that these optimal torque profiles result in energy-efficient continuous brachiation over a flexible cable. Additional studies examine how the optimal torque profiles change depending on the robot's initial position along a catenary cable.


Title: Performance Indicator for Benchmarking Force-Controlled Robots
Key Words: force control  force feedback  mobile robots  position control  robotic assembly  performance indicator  force control  impedance control  robot-based sensitive assembly  robotics  force feedback information  direct force control  force-controlled robot benchmarking  Force  Robot sensing systems  Service robots  Task analysis  Tools  Benchmark testing 
Abstract: Robot-based sensitive assembly is a recent and growing trend in robotics. Force-controlled robots are expected to interact with an unknown environment using solely force feedback information. In general, the exact contact is difficult to predict due to various impact factors, such as the dynamics of the interaction, work-piece stiffness and geometry, the robot's configuration, and the efficiency of the control algorithm. Currently, there is no general indicator for evaluating the performance of a force-controlled robot. This work presents a concept of such a performance indicator. In order to test the proposed concept for comparison, an experimental setup is presented that simulates a contour-following task under force control. This setup is used to test two robots with different force-controllers and control principles, namely direct force and impedance control. The results indicate good applicability of the proposed performance indicator to benchmark force-controlled robots, and this is extensively discussed.


Title: A Failure-Tolerant Approach to Synchronous Formation Control of Mobile Robots Under Communication Delays
Key Words: delays  mobile robots  motion control  multi-robot systems  switching systems (control)  topology  failure-tolerant approach  mobile robots  communication delays  robot malfunction  robot formation control  system malfunction  synchronous formation control problem  network connectivity  motion synchronism  robot replacements  synchronous formation control method  recursive switched topology control strategy  neighboring robots  Topology  Switches  Robot kinematics  Network topology  Synchronization 
Abstract: Robot malfunction is inevitable in practical applications of the robot formation control due to uncontrolled crashing, system malfunction or communication loss. In this paper, we study the synchronous formation control problem in the presence of robot malfunctions. Our main idea is to improve the network connectivity and motion synchronism of the robot formation through a series of topology switchings and robot replacements. Firstly, the synchronous formation control method is introduced which enables the robots to tracking their desired trajectories while keeping predefined formation shapes. Secondly, a recursive switched topology control strategy is proposed to restore the formation shape as well as to improve the network connectivity and motion synchronism in the presence of robot malfunctions. Thirdly, the convergence analysis of the proposed control system is presented and a sufficient condition is obtained under an average dwell time scheme. What's more, the proposed approach is fully distributed and the communication delays between neighboring robots also have been taken into consideration. Simulation results demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed approach.


Title: Perceived Stiffness Estimation for Robot Force Control
Key Words: adaptive control  force control  manipulators  position control  environment stiffness  perceived stiffness estimation  positive force feedback loop  contact dynamics  force measurements  force signals  low pass filters  environment dynamics  force control performance  force control perspective  robot effective mass  force based stiffness estimation strategy  control gains  control optimization parameter  force control  robot dynamics  Robots  Force  Estimation  Dynamics  Force control  Effective mass  Adaptation models 
Abstract: Typical robot force control architectures have a positive force feedback loop to decouple robot dynamics from contact dynamics. Due to the noisy profile of force measurements, it is common to filter force signals by low pass filters. This paper shows that, when force feedback is filtered, robot and environment dynamics are no longer decoupled, affecting force control performance. Additionally, the perceived stiffness from the force control perspective, is correlated with the robot effective mass. To cope with this issue, a force based stiffness estimation strategy that also includes the inertial properties (effective mass) in the estimation algorithm is proposed, allowing to adapt control gains based on the robot effective mass. In this way, the perceived stiffness can be seen as a control optimization parameter, rather than a well defined physical property. Simulation and experimental results with a 1-DoF robot and 7-DoF manipulator, respectively, validate the estimation strategy, showing better force control results with the perceived stiffness in the control loop, as compared to the real environment stiffness.


Title: Design and Evaluation of Skating Motions for a Dexterous Quadruped
Key Words: control system synthesis  legged locomotion  mobile robots  motion control  robot dynamics  wheels  Dexterous Quadruped  contact force distribution  wheel slip  three-wheeled skating maneuvers  omnidirectional motion primitives  dexterous limbs  quadruped robot  skating motions  locomotion  continuous ground contact  Wheels  Mobile robots  Planning  Force  Trajectory  Acceleration 
Abstract: This paper describes skating locomotion for a quadruped robot with dexterous limbs. The emphasis is on design of omnidirectional motion primitives and quantification of resulting speed and accuracy when traversing different types of smooth but potentially non-flat terrain. In particular, we study trade-offs between using four-wheeled versus three-wheeled skating maneuvers. In four-wheeled skating, motions have the benefit of symmetry, so that errors due to wheel slip should theoretically cancel out on average. Three-wheeled skating, by contrast, introduces significantly more asymmetry in configuration and contact force distribution over time; however, it has the advantage of guaranteeing continuous ground contact for all skates when terrain has bumps or other curvature. We present simulation results quantifying errors for each approach, for various terrains. Our results allow us to tune motions to reduce biases and variability in motion, which are primarily due to accelerations as locomotion begins.


Title: Robot Navigation in Complex Workspaces Using Harmonic Maps
Key Words: geometry  mobile robots  motion control  path planning  robot vision  SLAM (robots)  complex workspaces  harmonic maps  Artificial Potential Fields  autonomous robot navigation control schemes  local minima  APF based control scheme  goal configuration  multiply connected compact 2D workspaces  Harmonic analysis  Navigation  Robot kinematics  Convergence  Tuning  Trajectory 
Abstract: Artificial Potential Fields (APFs) constitute an intuitive tool for designing autonomous robot navigation control schemes, though they generally suffer from the existence of local minima which may trap the robot away from its desired configuration, an issue usually addressed by appropriate offline “tuning” of the potential field's parameters. On the other side, most APF based approaches rely on a diffeomorphism to sphere worlds to handle realistic scenarios, which may be either costly to compute (e.g., conformal mappings) or requires some sort of preconditioning of the workspace (e.g., decomposition of complex geometries to simple elementary components). In this work, we first propose a constructive procedure to map multiply connected compact 2D workspaces to one or more punctured disks based on harmonic maps. Subsequently, we design an APF based control scheme along with an adaptive law for its parameters that requires no offline tuning to guarantee safe convergence to its goal configuration. Finally, an extensive simulation study is conducted to demonstrate the efficacy of the proposed control scheme.


Title: Backprop-MPDM: Faster Risk-Aware Policy Evaluation Through Efficient Gradient Optimization
Key Words: decision making  gradient methods  learning (artificial intelligence)  Markov processes  optimisation  stochastic processes  multipolicy decision-making  gradient optimization  risk-aware policy evaluation  backprop-MPDM policy  robot platform  easily-differentiable heuristic function  random sampling  stochastic gradient optimization algorithms  decision making process  risk-aware formulations  Robots  Computational modeling  Trajectory  Navigation  Decision making  Cost function 
Abstract: In Multi-Policy Decision-Making (MPDM), many computationally-expensive forward simulations are performed in order to predict the performance of a set of candidate policies. In risk-aware formulations of MPDM, only the worst outcomes affect the decision making process, and efficiently finding these influential outcomes becomes the core challenge. Recently, stochastic gradient optimization algorithms, using a heuristic function, were shown to be significantly superior to random sampling. In this paper, we show that accurate gradients can be computed - even through a complex forward simulation - using approaches similar to those in deep networks. We show that our proposed approach finds influential outcomes more reliably, and is faster than earlier methods, allowing us to evaluate more policies while simultaneously eliminating the need to design an easily-differentiable heuristic function. We demonstrate significant performance improvements in simulation as well as on a real robot platform navigating a highly dynamic environment.


Title: Bayesian Optimization Using Domain Knowledge on the ATRIAS Biped
Key Words: Bayes methods  control engineering computing  gait analysis  learning (artificial intelligence)  legged locomotion  motion control  optimisation  Bayesian optimization  1-dimensional space  feature transformation  different walking controllers  ATRIAS bipedal robot  nonhumanoid robot morphologies  human-inspired neuromuscular controller  human walking  16-dimensional locomotion controller  bipedal locomotion  black-box data-efficient optimization scheme  data-efficient learning techniques  legged locomotion  simulation transfer  expert-designed heuristics  robotics controllers  domain knowledge  Hardware  Legged locomotion  Optimization  Kernel  Transforms  Measurement 
Abstract: Robotics controllers often consist of expert-designed heuristics, which can be hard to tune in higher dimensions. Simulation can aid in optimizing these controllers if parameters learned in simulation transfer to hardware. Unfortunately, this is often not the case in legged locomotion, necessitating learning directly on hardware. This motivates using data-efficient learning techniques like Bayesian Optimization (BO) to minimize collecting expensive data samples. BO is a black-box data-efficient optimization scheme, though its performance typically degrades in higher dimensions. We aim to overcome this problem by incorporating domain knowledge, with a focus on bipedal locomotion. In our previous work, we proposed a feature transformation that projected a 16-dimensional locomotion controller to a 1-dimensional space using knowledge of human walking. When optimizing a human-inspired neuromuscular controller in simulation, this feature transformation enhanced sample efficiency of BO over traditional BO with a Squared Exponential kernel. In this paper, we present a generalized feature transform applicable to non-humanoid robot morphologies and evaluate it on the ATRIAS bipedal robot, in both simulation and hardware. We present three different walking controllers and two are evaluated on the real robot. Our results show that this feature transform captures important aspects of walking and accelerates learning on hardware and simulation, as compared to traditional BO.


Title: An MPC Walking Framework with External Contact Forces
Key Words: compensation  integer programming  legged locomotion  linear systems  predictive control  quadratic programming  hand contact  MPC walking framework  external contact forces  two-step optimization problem  Zero Moment Point  ZMP tracking error  friction cone  walking control scheme  linear model predictive control scheme  multiple contact locations  center of mass trajectory  mixed integer quadratic program  frequency 100.0 Hz to 300.0 Hz  Optimization  Force  Legged locomotion  Trajectory  Friction  Dynamics 
Abstract: In this work, we present an extension to a linear Model Predictive Control (MPC) scheme that plans external contact forces for the robot when given multiple contact locations and their corresponding friction cone. To this end, we set up a two-step optimization problem. In the first optimization, we compute the Center of Mass (CoM) trajectory, foot step locations, and introduce slack variables to account for violating the imposed constraints on the Zero Moment Point (ZMP). We then use the slack variables to trigger the second optimization, in which we calculate the optimal external force that compensates for the ZMP tracking error. This optimization considers multiple contacts positions within the environment by formulating the problem as a Mixed Integer Quadratic Program (MIQP) that can be solved at a speed between 100-300 Hz. Once contact is created, the MIQP reduces to a single Quadratic Program (QP) that can be solved in real-time (<; 1kHz). Simulations show that the presented walking control scheme can withstand disturbances 2-3× larger with the additional force provided by a hand contact.


Title: Inclusion of Angular Momentum During Planning for Capture Point Based Walking
Key Words: angular momentum  gait analysis  humanoid robots  legged locomotion  motion control  trajectory control  smooth trajectories  continuous trajectories  leg swing  nonnegligible angular momentum rate  reference trajectory generator  bipedal walking  centroidal angular momentum  planning stage  closed-form trajectory solutions  centroidal moment pivot  instantaneous capture point  CMP  ICP  center of mass  Legged locomotion  Trajectory  Iterative closest point algorithm  Planning  Dynamics  Lips 
Abstract: When walking at high speeds, the swing legs of robots produce a non-negligible angular momentum rate. To accommodate this, we provide a reference trajectory generator for bipedal walking that incorporates predicted centroidal angular momentum at the planning stage. This can be done efficiently as the Centroidal Moment Pivot (CMP), Instantaneous Capture Point (ICP) and the center of mass (CoM) all have closed-form trajectory solutions due to their linear dynamics. This is then used to produce smooth, continuous trajectories. We furthermore provide a lightweight model to estimate angular momentum as induced during leg swing of the gait cycle. Our proposed trajectory generator is tested thoroughly in simulation and has been shown to successfully operate on the real hardware.


Title: SqueezeSeg: Convolutional Neural Nets with Recurrent CRF for Real-Time Road-Object Segmentation from 3D LiDAR Point Cloud
Key Words: computer games  feedforward neural nets  image classification  image segmentation  learning (artificial intelligence)  object detection  optical radar  pattern clustering  Grand Theft Auto  video game  autonomous driving  road-objects  semantic segmentation  3D LiDAR point cloud  real-time road-object segmentation  recurrent CRF  realistic training data  LiDAR simulator  extra training data  3D bounding boxes  point-wise segmentation labels  CNN model  instance-level labels  point-wise label map  transformed LiDAR point cloud  convolutional neural networks  SqueezeSeg  end-to-end pipeline  point-wise classification problem  LiDAR point clouds  time 8.2 ms to 9.2 ms  time 3.0 d  Three-dimensional displays  Laser radar  Computational modeling  Pipelines  Autonomous vehicles  Semantics  Clustering algorithms 
Abstract: We address semantic segmentation of road-objects from 3D LiDAR point clouds. In particular, we wish to detect and categorize instances of interest, such as cars, pedestrians and cyclists. We formulate this problem as a point-wise classification problem, and propose an end-to-end pipeline called SqueezeSeg based on convolutional neural networks (CNN): the CNN takes a transformed LiDAR point cloud as input and directly outputs a point-wise label map, which is then refined by a conditional random field (CRF) implemented as a recurrent layer. Instance-level labels are then obtained by conventional clustering algorithms. Our CNN model is trained on LiDAR point clouds from the KITTI [1] dataset, and our point-wise segmentation labels are derived from 3D bounding boxes from KITTI. To obtain extra training data, we built a LiDAR simulator into Grand Theft Auto V (GTA-V), a popular video game, to synthesize large amounts of realistic training data. Our experiments show that SqueezeSeg achieves high accuracy with astonishingly fast and stable runtime (8.7±0.5 ms per frame), highly desirable for autonomous driving. Furthermore, additionally training on synthesized data boosts validation accuracy on real-world data. Our source code is open-source released1. The paper is accompanied by a video2 containing a high level introduction and demonstrations of this work.


Title: Planning Ergonomic Sequences of Actions in Human-Robot Interaction
Key Words: ergonomics  human-robot interaction  multi-agent systems  multi-robot systems  path planning  optimization formulation  ergonomic situations  human-robot interaction  human-robot collaboration  motion planning problem  multiagent case  human robot  Ergonomics  Task analysis  Robot kinematics  Planning  Cost function 
Abstract: In this paper, we define the problem of human-robot collaboration as a combined task and motion planning problem which is extended to the multi-agent case (human and robot). Our proposed approach allows us to explicitly take into account ergonomic cost, synchrony and concurrency of behavior in an optimization formulation. We show simulated results as well as an experiment with a real robot combined with a user study. Results show that optimizing over a sequence of actions leads to more ergonomic situations.


Title: Pedestrian Feature Generation in Fish-Eye Images via Adversary
Key Words: driver information systems  feature extraction  image classification  object detection  pedestrians  FSTN  pedestrian detection  pedestrian feature generation  advanced driver assistance systems  ADAS  training  fish eye spatial transformer network  fish eye images  feature maps  robust  deformation  ETH  KITTI pedestrian datasets  adversarial network  fish eye pedestrian detectors  Detectors  Training  Feature extraction  Mathematical model  Cameras  Proposals  Convolution 
Abstract: Pedestrian detection in fish-eye images is always an important problem in advanced driver assistance systems (ADAS). In conventional methods, pedestrian detectors will be trained using fish-eye images. But it is hard to collect and label enough fish-eye images manually. Therefore, a new strategy for training fish-eye pedestrian detectors using images from normal pedestrian datasets is proposed in this work. Concretely, Fish-eye Spatial Transformer Network (FSTN) is designed to generate pedestrian features in fish-eye images. FSTN aims to simulate distorted pedestrian features on the feature maps. Then the entire network is trained via adversary. FSTN is trained to generate examples which are difficult for pedestrian detectors to classify. So that the detectors are more robust to the deformation. FSTN can be embedded into state-of-the-art detectors easily. And the entire pedestrian detector, where the FSTN embedded, can be trained end to end via adversary. Moreover, experiments on ETH and KITTI pedestrian datasets show the slight accuracy improvement of pedestrian detection in fish-eye images using adversarial network compared with conventional methods.


Title: Dynamic Occupancy Grid Prediction for Urban Autonomous Driving: A Deep Learning Approach with Fully Automatic Labeling
Key Words: Bayes methods  convolution  feedforward neural nets  filtering theory  intelligent transportation systems  mobile robots  Monte Carlo methods  road traffic  time series  traffic engineering computing  unsupervised learning  complex interactions  dynamic occupancy grid prediction  urban autonomous driving  deep learning approach  long-term situation prediction  intelligent vehicles  complex downtown scenarios  multiple road users  motor vehicles  Bayesian filtering technique  environment representation  machine learning  deep convolutional neural network  spatially distributed velocity estimates  raw data sequence  input time series  multiple sensors  convolutional neural networks  road user interaction  pixel-wise balancing  static cells  dynamic cells  unsupervised learning character  pedestrians  bikes  distributed velocity estimation  Monte-Carlo simulation  Vehicle dynamics  Machine learning  Sensor fusion  Roads  Time series analysis  Laser radar 
Abstract: Long-term situation prediction plays a crucial role for intelligent vehicles. A major challenge still to overcome is the prediction of complex downtown scenarios with multiple road users, e.g., pedestrians, bikes, and motor vehicles, interacting with each other. This contribution tackles this challenge by combining a Bayesian filtering technique for environment representation, and machine learning as long-term predictor. More specifically, a dynamic occupancy grid map is utilized as input to a deep convolutional neural network. This yields the advantage of using spatially distributed velocity estimates from a single time step for prediction, rather than a raw data sequence, alleviating common problems dealing with input time series of multiple sensors. Furthermore, convolutional neural networks have the inherent characteristic of using context information, enabling the implicit modeling of road user interaction. Pixel-wise balancing is applied in the loss function counteracting the extreme imbalance between static and dynamic cells. One of the major advantages is the unsupervised learning character due to fully automatic label generation. The presented algorithm is trained and evaluated on multiple hours of recorded sensor data and compared to Monte-Carlo simulation. Experiments show the ability to model complex interactions.


Title: Encoderless Gimbal Calibration of Dynamic Multi-Camera Clusters
Key Words: angular measurement  calibration  cameras  encoderless gimbal calibration  dynamic multiCamera Clusters  Dynamic Camera Clusters  multicamera systems  cameras  joint angle measurements  time-varying transformation  static camera  motor encoders  transformation chain  encoderless gimbal mechanism  online estimation  Cameras  Calibration  Robot vision systems  Estimation  Reluctance motors  Kinematics  Vehicle dynamics 
Abstract: Dynamic Camera Clusters (DCCs) are multi-camera systems where one or more cameras are mounted on actuated mechanisms such as a gimbal. Existing methods for DCC calibration rely on joint angle measurements to resolve the time-varying transformation between the dynamic and static camera. This information is usually provided by motor encoders, however, joint angle measurements are not always readily available on off-the-shelf mechanisms. In this paper, we present an encoderless approach for DCC calibration which simultaneously estimates the kinematic parameters of the transformation chain as well as the unknown joint angles. We also demonstrate the integration of an encoderless gimbal mechanism with a state-of-the art VIO algorithm, and show the extensions required in order to perform simultaneous online estimation of the joint angles and vehicle localization state. The proposed calibration approach is validated both in simulation and on a physical DCC composed of a 2-DOF gimbal mounted on a UAV. Finally, we show the experimental results of the calibrated mechanism integrated into the OKVIS VIO package, and demonstrate successful online joint angle estimation while maintaining localization accuracy that is comparable to a standard static multi-camera configuration.


Title: 3D Lidar-IMU Calibration Based on Upsampled Preintegrated Measurements for Motion Distortion Correction
Key Words: calibration  cameras  image motion analysis  optical radar  optimisation  probability  sampling methods  stereo image processing  interpolated inertial measurements  lidar scan  lidar point-to-plane distances  upsampled preintegrated measurements  motion distortion correction  probabilistic framework  lidar-IMU sensing system  motion distortion  on-manifold optimisation  3D lidar-IMU calibration  Laser radar  Calibration  Distortion  Robot sensing systems  Three-dimensional displays  Distortion measurement  Motion measurement 
Abstract: In this paper, we present a probabilistic framework to recover the extrinsic calibration parameters of a lidar-IMU sensing system. Unlike global-shutter cameras, lidars do not take single snapshots of the environment. Instead, lidars collect a succession of 3D-points generally grouped in scans. If these points are assumed to be expressed in a common frame, this becomes an issue when the sensor moves rapidly in the environment causing motion distortion. The fundamental idea of our proposed framework is to use preintegration over interpolated inertial measurements to characterise the motion distortion in each lidar scan. Moreover, by using a set of planes as a calibration target, the proposed method makes use of lidar point-to-plane distances to jointly calibrate and localise the system using on-manifold optimisation. The calibration does not rely on a predefined target as arbitrary planes are detected and modelled in the first lidar scan. Simulated and real data are used to show the effectiveness of the proposed method.


Title: A Low-Cost Navigation Strategy for Yield Estimation in Vineyards
Key Words: agriculture  image colour analysis  image resolution  object detection  yield estimation  grape varieties  vineyard management  low-cost navigation strategy  navigation algorithm  grape pictures  low-cost autonomous system  RGB camera  RGB image processing  Navigation  Pipelines  Yield estimation  Cameras  Robot vision systems  Lasers 
Abstract: Accurate yield estimation is very important for improving the vineyard management, the quality of the grapes and the health of the vines. The most common systems use RGB image processing for achieving a good estimation. In order to collect images, robots or farming vehicles can be equipped with a RGB camera. In this paper, we propose a low-cost autonomous system which can navigate through a vineyard while collecting grape pictures in order to provide a yield estimation. Our system uses only a laser scanner to detect the row and follows it until its end, then it navigates towards the next one, exploiting the knowledge of the vineyard. The navigation algorithm was tested both in simulation and in a real environment with good results. Furthermore, a yield estimation of two different grape varieties is presented.


Title: Optimizing Placement and Number of RF Beacons to Achieve Better Indoor Localization
Key Words: indoor radio  mobility management (mobile radio)  optimisation  RF beacons  RF signal propagation  indoor infrastructure  cost function  Radio Frequency beacons  indoor localization  Sensors  Optimization  Wireless sensor networks  Lattices  Genetic algorithms  Radio frequency  RF signals  Indoor localization  Beacon deployment  Bluetooth Low Energy (BLE)  k-Coverage  Wireless sensor networks (WSN) 
Abstract: In this paper, we propose a novel solution to optimize the deployment of Radio Frequency (RF) beacons for the purpose of indoor localization. We propose a system that optimizes both the number of beacons and their placement in a given environment. We propose a novel cost-function, called CovBsm, that allows to simultaneously optimize the 3-coverage while maximizing the beacon spreading. Using this cost function, we propose a framework that maximize both the number of beacons and their placement in a given environment. The proposed solution accounts for the indoor infrastructure and its influence on the RF signal propagation by embedding a realistic simulator into the optimization process.


Title: Local Nearest Neighbor Integrity Risk Evaluation for Robot Navigation
Key Words: computational complexity  feature extraction  mobile robots  nearest neighbour methods  risk analysis  sensor fusion  association faults  nearest neighbor data association algorithm  upper bound  nearest neighbor integrity risk evaluation  robot localization  integrity risk prediction  robot navigation  data association algorithms  feature extraction  Feature extraction  Technological innovation  Covariance matrices  Robots  Upper bound  Safety  Noise measurement 
Abstract: This paper describes the design of a new integrity risk prediction/monitoring methodology for robot localization that uses feature extraction and data association algorithms. The work specifically addresses incorrect association faults when employing a local nearest neighbor data association algorithm. This approach is more efficient and easier to implement than previous work. The methodology is tested in simulation, showing that the computed upper bound on integrity risk is a performance metric capable of providing warnings when the safety of the system cannot be guaranteed.


Title: Aided Inertial Navigation with Geometric Features: Observability Analysis
Key Words: cameras  inertial navigation  Monte Carlo methods  observability  optical radar  radar imaging  radionavigation  sonar imaging  stereo image processing  Monte Carlo simulations  VINS  plane features  bearing measurements  point features  bearing sensor  vision-aided INS  generic exteroceptive range  inertial navigation systems  observability analysis  Observability  Jacobian matrices  Sensors  Position measurement  Gravity  Rotation measurement  Current measurement 
Abstract: In this paper, we perform observability analysis for inertial navigation systems (INS) aided by generic exteroceptive range and/or bearing sensors with different geometric features including points, lines and planes. While the observability of vision-aided INS (VINS, which uses camera as a bearing sensor) with point features has been extensively studied in the literature, we analytically show that the same observability property remains if using generic range and/or bearing measurements, and if global measurements are also available, as expected, some unobservable directions dismiss. We study in-depth the effects of four degenerate motions on the system observability. In particular, building upon the observability analysis of the aided INS with point features, we perform observability analysis for the same system but with line and plane features, respectively, and show that there exist 5 (and 6) unobservable directions for a single line (and plane) feature. Moreover, we, for the first time, analytically derive the unobservable directions for the cases of multiple lines/planes. We validate our analysis through Monte Carlo simulations.


Title: Multi-Agent Time-Based Decision-Making for the Search and Action Problem
Key Words: computational complexity  control engineering computing  decision making  multi-agent systems  multi-robot systems  probability  rescue robots  search-and-rescue  task allocation  probabilistic reasoning  Gazebo-based environmenT  multiagent time-based decision-making  Mohamed Bin Zayed International Robotics Challenge  near-optimal decisions  agent action  allocated budget  time constraints  decentralized multiagent decision-making framework  computational complexity  task selection  missions present several challenges  robotic applications  action problem  Task analysis  Search problems  Decision making  Planning  Time factors  Robots  Probabilistic logic 
Abstract: Many robotic applications, such as search-and-rescue, require multiple agents to search for and perform actions on targets. However, such missions present several challenges, including cooperative exploration, task selection and allocation, time limitations, and computational complexity. To address this, we propose a decentralized multi-agent decision-making framework for the search and action problem with time constraints. The main idea is to treat time as an allocated budget in a setting where each agent action incurs a time cost and yields a certain reward. Our approach leverages probabilistic reasoning to make near-optimal decisions leading to maximized reward. We evaluate our method in the search, pick, and place scenario of the Mohamed Bin Zayed International Robotics Challenge (MBZIRC), by using a probability density map and reward prediction function to assess actions. Extensive simulations show that our algorithm outperforms benchmark strategies, and we demonstrate system integration in a Gazebo-based environment, validating the framework's readiness for field application.


Title: Multi-robot Dubins Coverage with Autonomous Surface Vehicles
Key Words: computational complexity  mobile robots  multi-robot systems  path planning  remotely operated vehicles  travelling salesman problems  multirobot Dubins coverage  aerial monitoring  single robot approaches  multirobot approaches  Dubins vehicle kinematics  environmental monitoring  multirobot team  Dubins vehicles  NP-complete problems  salesman problem-k-TSP-formulation  autonomous surface vehicles  large scale coverage operations  marine exploration  Robot sensing systems  Clustering algorithms  Task analysis  Lakes  Multi-robot systems  Kinematics 
Abstract: In large scale coverage operations, such as marine exploration or aerial monitoring, single robot approaches are not ideal, as they may take too long to cover a large area. In such scenarios, multi-robot approaches are preferable. Furthermore, several real world vehicles are non-holonomic, but can be modeled using Dubins vehicle kinematics. This paper focuses on environmental monitoring of aquatic environments using Autonomous Surface Vehicles (ASVs). In particular, we propose a novel approach for solving the problem of complete coverage of a known environment by a multi-robot team consisting of Dubins vehicles. It is worth noting that both multi-robot coverage and Dubins vehicle coverage are NP-complete problems. As such, we present two heuristics methods based on a variant of the traveling salesman problem-k-TSP-formulation and clustering algorithms that efficiently solve the problem. The proposed methods are tested both in simulations to assess their scalability and with a team of ASVs operating on a 200 km2 lake to ensure their applicability in real world.


Title: Joint Multi-Policy Behavior Estimation and Receding-Horizon Trajectory Planning for Automated Urban Driving
Key Words: collision avoidance  Markov processes  mobile robots  multi-robot systems  path planning  road vehicles  multipolicy decision-making  traffic participants  planned trajectory  ego-vehicle  safe trajectories  multiple motion policies  receding-horizon planner  simulated multivehicle intersection scenarios  joint multipolicy behavior  automated urban driving  urban environments  autonomous vehicle  multiple motion hypothesis  joint behavior estimation  observable Markov decision processes  receding-horizon control  receding-horizon trajectory planning  Trajectory  Planning  Estimation  Space vehicles  Uncertainty  Roads  Computational modeling 
Abstract: When driving in urban environments, an autonomous vehicle must account for the interaction with other traffic participants. It must reason about their future behavior, how its actions affect their future behavior, and potentially consider multiple motion hypothesis. In this paper we introduce a method for joint behavior estimation and trajectory planning that models interaction and multi-policy decision-making. The method leverages Partially Observable Markov Decision Processes to estimate the behavior of other traffic participants given the planned trajectory for the ego-vehicle, and Receding-Horizon Control for generating safe trajectories for the ego-vehicle. To achieve safe navigation we introduce chance constraints over multiple motion policies in the receding-horizon planner. These constraints account for uncertainty over the behavior of other traffic participants. The method is capable of running in real-time and we show its performance and good scalability in simulated multi-vehicle intersection scenarios.


Title: Robust Environmental Mapping by Mobile Sensor Networks
Key Words: Bayes methods  computational geometry  environmental factors  fires  mobile radio  mobile robots  wireless sensor networks  environmental mapping  ground truth distribution  Voronoi diagram  ad-hoc communication  human safety  satisfactory convergence  autonomous agents  mapping tasks  terrain elevation  physical quantities  forest fires  hazardous chemical leakages  spatial map  mobile sensor networks  decentralized manner  disjoint regions  hardware failures  short-range sensors  mobile robots  environmental parameters  robust spatial mapping  Bayesian approach  Robot sensing systems  Robustness  Mutual information  Computational modeling  Mobile robots  Task analysis 
Abstract: Constructing a spatial map of environmental parameters is a crucial step to preventing hazardous chemical leakages, forest fires, or while estimating a spatially distributed physical quantities such as terrain elevation. Although prior methods can do such mapping tasks efficiently via dispatching a group of autonomous agents, they are unable to ensure satisfactory convergence to the underlying ground truth distribution in a decentralized manner when any of the agents fail. Since the types of agents utilized to perform such mapping are typically inexpensive and prone to failure, this results in poor overall mapping performance in real-world applications, which can in certain cases endanger human safety. This paper presents a Bayesian approach for robust spatial mapping of environmental parameters by deploying a group of mobile robots capable of ad-hoc communication equipped with short-range sensors in the presence of hardware failures. Our approach first utilizes a variant of the Voronoi diagram to partition the region to be mapped into disjoint regions that are each associated with at least one robot. These robots are then deployed in a decentralized manner to maximize the likelihood that at least one robot detects every target in their associated region despite a non-zero probability of failure. A suite of simulation results is presented to demonstrate the effectiveness and robustness of the proposed method when compared to existing techniques.


Title: Accelerating Model Learning with Inter-Robot Knowledge Transfer
Key Words: learning (artificial intelligence)  manipulator dynamics  multi-robot systems  robot programming  training transfer models  online learning  inverse dynamics model  model learning  inter-robot knowledge transfer  multirobot setting  trajectory tracking tasks  robot inverse dynamics model  tabula rasa learning  robot learning  Interbotix PhantomX Pincher arm  Kuka youBot arm  Adaptation models  Manipulator dynamics  Data models  Acceleration  Task analysis 
Abstract: Online learning of a robot's inverse dynamics model for trajectory tracking necessitates an interaction between the robot and its environment to collect training data. This is challenging for physical robots in the real world, especially for humanoids and manipulators due to their large and high dimensional state and action spaces, as a large amount of data must be collected over time. This can put the robot in danger when learning tabula rasa and can also be a time-intensive process especially in a multi-robot setting, where each robot is learning its model from scratch. We propose accelerating learning of the inverse dynamics model for trajectory tracking tasks in this multi-robot setting using knowledge transfer, where robots share and re-use data collected by preexisting robots, in order to speed up learning for new robots. We propose a scheme for collecting a sample of correspondences from the robots for training transfer models, and demonstrate, in simulations, the benefit of knowledge transfer in accelerating online learning of the inverse dynamics model between several robots, including between a low-cost Interbotix PhantomX Pincher arm, and a more expensive and relatively heavier Kuka youBot arm. We show that knowledge transfer can save up to 63% of training time of the youBot arm compared to learning from scratch, and about 58% for the lighter Pincher arm.


Title: DEFO-NET: Learning Body Deformation Using Generative Adversarial Networks
Key Words: finite element analysis  image colour analysis  image reconstruction  mobile robots  robot vision  RGB-D image  finite element methods  mobile robots  single depth view  physical finite element model simulator  autonomous robots  Generative Adversarial networks  body deformation  DEFO-NET  Strain  Gallium nitride  Force  Deformable models  Robots  Training  Generators 
Abstract: Modelling the physical properties of everyday objects is a fundamental prerequisite for autonomous robots. We present a novel generative adversarial network (DEFO-NET), able to predict body deformations under external forces from a single RGB-D image. The network is based on an invertible conditional Generative Adversarial Network (IcGAN) and is trained on a collection of different objects of interest generated by a physical finite element model simulator. Defo-netinherits the generalisation properties of GANs. This means that the network is able to reconstruct the whole 3-D appearance of the object given a single depth view of the object and to generalise to unseen object configurations. Contrary to traditional finite element methods, our approach is fast enough to be used in real-time applications. We apply the network to the problem of safe and fast navigation of mobile robots carrying payloads over different obstacles and floor materials. Experimental results in real scenarios show how a robot equipped with an RGB-D camera can use the network to predict terrain deformations under different payload configurations and use this to avoid unsafe areas.


Title: Safe Learning of Quadrotor Dynamics Using Barrier Certificates
Key Words: aircraft control  autonomous aerial vehicles  control system synthesis  Gaussian processes  helicopters  learning systems  mobile robots  nonlinear control systems  probability  uncertain systems  complex dynamical systems  accurate nonlinear models  data-driven approach  Gaussian processes  learning process  barrier certificates  safe learning  learning controller  quadrotor dynamics  Safety  Control systems  Computational modeling  Gaussian processes  Adaptation models  Lyapunov methods  System dynamics 
Abstract: To effectively control complex dynamical systems, accurate nonlinear models are typically needed. However, these models are not always known. In this paper, we present a data-driven approach based on Gaussian processes that learns models of quadrotors operating in partially unknown environments. What makes this challenging is that if the learning process is not carefully controlled, the system will go unstable, i.e., the quadcopter will crash. To this end, barrier certificates are employed for safe learning. The barrier certificates establish a non-conservative forward invariant safe region, in which high probability safety guarantees are provided based on the statistics of the Gaussian Process. A learning controller is designed to efficiently explore those uncertain states and expand the barrier certified safe region based on an adaptive sampling scheme. Simulation results are provided to demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed approach.


Title: A Linear Least Square Initialization Method for 3D Pose Graph Optimization Problem
Key Words: approximation theory  computer vision  graph theory  image reconstruction  iterative methods  least squares approximations  optimisation  pose estimation  SLAM (robots)  important optimization problem  machine vision applications  3D SLAM  graph corresponds  PGO problem  relative noisy observation  PGO solvers  state-of-the-art initialization methods  low noise problems  measurement noise  iterative methods  high noise problems  PGO optimization problem  iterative least-squares method  linear least square initialization method  pose graph optimization  least-square problem  Robots  Integrated circuits  Cost function  Iterative methods  Three-dimensional displays  Estimation  Pose Graph Optimization  Least square  3D SLAM  Initialization method 
Abstract: Pose Graph Optimization (PGO) is an important optimization problem arising in robotics and machine vision applications like 3D reconstruction and 3D SLAM. Each node of pose graph corresponds to an orientation and a location. The PGO problem finds orientations and locations of the nodes from relative noisy observation between nodes. Recent investigations show that well-known iterative PGO solvers need good initialization to converge to good solutions. However, we observed that state-of-the-art initialization methods obtain good initialization only in low noise problems, and they fail in challenging problems having more measurement noise. Consequently, iterative methods may converge to bad solutions in high noise problems. In this paper, a new method for obtaining orientations in the PGO optimization problem is presented. Like other well-known methods the initial locations are obtained from the result of a least-squares problem. The proposed method iteratively approximates the problem around current estimation and converts it to a least-squares problem. Therefore, the method can be seen as an iterative least-squares method which is computationally efficient. Simulation results show that the proposed initialization method helps the most well-known iterative solver to obtain better optima and significantly outperform other solvers in some cases.


Title: Perception-aware Receding Horizon Navigation for MAVs
Key Words: aircraft control  collision avoidance  mobile robots  navigation  path planning  robot vision  state estimation  perception-aware receding horizon navigation  microaerial vehicle  state estimation uncertainty  perception-aware receding horizon approach  monocular state estimation  candidate trajectories  perception quality  collision probability  receding horizon navigation framework  improved state estimation accuracy  goal-reaching task  purely-reactive navigation system  MAV  Trajectory  State estimation  Planning  Navigation  Cameras  Measurement  Task analysis 
Abstract: To reach a given destination safely and accurately, a micro aerial vehicle needs to be able to avoid obstacles and minimize its state estimation uncertainty at the same time. To achieve this goal, we propose a perception-aware receding horizon approach. In our method, a single forward-looking camera is used for state estimation and mapping. Using the information from the monocular state estimation and mapping system, we generate a library of candidate trajectories and evaluate them in terms of perception quality, collision probability, and distance to the goal. The best trajectory to execute is then selected as the one that maximizes a reward function based on these three metrics. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first work that integrates active vision within a receding horizon navigation framework for a goal reaching task. We demonstrate by simulation and real-world experiments on an actual quadrotor that our active approach leads to improved state estimation accuracy in a goal-reaching task when compared to a purely-reactive navigation system, especially in difficult scenes (e.g., weak texture).


Title: Visual-Inertial Navigation Algorithm Development Using Photorealistic Camera Simulation in the Loop
Key Words: aerospace computing  autonomous aerial vehicles  computer vision  control engineering computing  image sensors  inertial navigation  rendering (computer graphics)  virtual reality  vision-based perception  virtual reality  visual-inertial navigation algorithm  high-rate cameras  image simulation system  photorealistic camera simulation  agile maneuvering  on-board inertial measurement unit  rapidly prototype computing  on-board camera images  NVIDIA Jetson Tegra X1 system-on-chip compute module  inertial sensors  microUAV platform  vision-in-the-loop control algorithms  agile microUnmanned Aerial Vehicles  Cameras  Sensors  Visualization  Real-time systems  Unmanned aerial vehicles  Navigation  Solid modeling 
Abstract: The development of fast, agile micro Unmanned Aerial Vehicles (UAVs) has been limited by (i) on-board computing hardware restrictions, (ii) the lack of sophisticated vision-based perception and vision-in-the-loop control algorithms, and (iii) the absence of development environments where such systems and algorithms can be rapidly and easily designed, implemented, and validated. Here, we first present a new micro UAV platform that integrates high-rate cameras, inertial sensors, and an NVIDIA Jetson Tegra X1 system-on-chip compute module that boasts 256 GPU cores. The UAV mechanics and electronics were designed and built in house, and are described in detail. Second, we present a novel “virtual reality” development environment, in which photorealistically-rendered synthetic on-board camera images are generated in real time while the UAV is in flight. This development environment allows us to rapidly prototype computing and sensing hardware as well as perception and control algorithms, using real physics, real interoceptive sensor data (e.g., from the on-board inertial measurement unit), and synthetic exteroceptive sensor data (e.g., from synthetic cameras). Third, we demonstrate repeated agile maneuvering with closed-loop vision-based perception and control algorithms, which we have developed using this environment.


Title: Development and Implementation of High Power Hexapole Magnetic Tweezer System for Micromanipulations
Key Words: coils  collision avoidance  electromagnetic actuators  magnetic devices  micromanipulators  microrobots  mobile robots  non-Newtonian fluids  radiation pressure  three-dimensional printing  electromagnetic coil  3D printed magnetic yokes  double layer structure  power source  microscale robotic swimmer manipulations  high power hexapole magnetic tweezer system  tapering-tipped magnetic poles  Cartesian coordinate system  3D micromanipulations  Newtonian fluid  nonNewtonian fluid  obstacle avoidance  Magnetic flux  Magnetic resonance imaging  Magnetic fields  Saturation magnetization  Magnetic hysteresis  Force  Power supplies 
Abstract: This paper presents the design, development and implementation of a novel, high power hexapole magnetic tweezer system for 3D micromanipulations. Six tapering-tipped magnetic poles are deployed in a tilted Cartesian coordinate system, with an electromagnetic coil on each for actuation, connected by two 3D printed magnetic yokes to form a double layer structure. The power source is integrated to the magnetic tweezer system through a control algorithm on the software level; image processing was used for experiment analysis. Because of the high magnetic field that the magnetic coils can generate, the working space in the system is relatively larger than other similar designs, which provides better performance on microscale robotic swimmer manipulations. Simulations and experiments performed in this paper demonstrate the agile and powerful manipulation of microswimmers with desired control input to follow complex trajectories, avoid obstacles and move against micro-flow in the samples. We prove that the developed hexapole magnetic tweezer has enough power and controllability to guide microswimmers in Newtonian and Non-Newtonian fluid environments. The system will be optimized continuously and implemented into cell penetration experiments. Finally, the application will be deployed into in vivo based environments.


Title: Safety and Guaranteed Stability Through Embedded Energy-Aware Actuators
Key Words: actuators  human-robot interaction  stability  embedded energy-aware actuators  robots  control algorithm  discrete-time computer  communication delays  model-free passivity  safety layer  complex robotic systems  physical human-robot interaction  safety mechanism  Actuators  Robots  Safety  Force  Springs  Shock absorbers 
Abstract: Safety is essential for robots in unknown environments, especially when there is physical Human-Robot Interaction (pHRI). Control over energy, or passivity, is an effective safety mechanism. However, when the control algorithm is implemented in a discrete-time computer, computation and communication delays readily lead to loss of passivity and to instability. In this paper, a way to make the actuators aware of the energy that they inject into the system is presented. Passivity and stability are then always guaranteed, even in situations of total communication loss. These Embedded Energy-Aware Actuators are a model-free passivity and safety layer that make complex robotic systems dependable, well-behaved and safe. The proposed method is validated in simulation and experiments.


Title: High-Level MLN-Based Approach for Spatial Context Disambiguation
Key Words: control engineering computing  inference mechanisms  learning (artificial intelligence)  Markov processes  mobile robots  probability  robot dynamics  sensor fusion  spatial context disambiguation  probabilistic MLN-based model  incomplete knowledge  High-level task planning  semantic spatial relations  robot dynamic  High-level MLN  MLN probabilistic reasoning  Robot sensing systems  Context modeling  Semantics  Probabilistic logic  Object recognition 
Abstract: In this paper, we propose a probabilistic MLN-based model for spatial context disambiguation. This model serves as a solution for the problem of incomplete knowledge in High-level task planning. By applying the state of the art MLN probabilistic reasoning such as MCSAT, we determine the concept class of the current spatial context of the robot and contribute by combining semantic spatial relations with observed data at different timesteps. The inherent uncertainty of robot dynamic environments makes the proposed approach suitable to deal with partial observability and sensing limitations of robots. Simulation experiments and evaluation results are presented to validate our model.


Title: Pairwise Consistent Measurement Set Maximization for Robust Multi-Robot Map Merging
Key Words: expectation-maximisation algorithm  graph theory  mobile robots  multi-robot systems  optimisation  robot vision  SLAM (robots)  PCM  robust multirobot map  robust selection  robust SLAM methods  multirobot case  simultaneous localization and mapping  pairwise consistency set maximization  pairwise consistent measurement set maximization  odometry backbone  Simultaneous localization and mapping  Robot kinematics  Phase change materials  Trajectory  Robustness  Merging 
Abstract: This paper reports on a method for robust selection of inter-map loop closures in multi-robot simultaneous localization and mapping (SLAM). Existing robust SLAM methods assume a good initialization or an “odometry backbone” to classify inlier and outlier loop closures. In the multi-robot case, these assumptions do not always hold. This paper presents an algorithm called Pairwise Consistency Maximization (PCM) that estimates the largest pairwise internally consistent set of measurements. Finding the largest pairwise internally consistent set can be transformed into an instance of the maximum clique problem from graph theory, and by leveraging the associated literature it can be solved in realtime. This paper evaluates how well PCM approximates the combinatorial gold standard using simulated data. It also evaluates the performance of PCM on synthetic and real-world data sets in comparison with DCS, SCGP, and RANSAC, and shows that PCM significantly outperforms these methods.


Title: Task-Specific Sensor Planning for Robotic Assembly Tasks
Key Words: feedback  multi-robot systems  open loop systems  path planning  robotic assembly  sensors  task-specific sensor planning  robotic assembly tasks  sensory feedback  task planning  open-loop simulation  task-specific uncertainty approximants  multirobot planner  multirobot tasks  Robot sensing systems  Task analysis  Uncertainty  Planning  Robotic assembly  Estimation 
Abstract: When performing multi-robot tasks, sensory feedback is crucial in reducing uncertainty for correct execution. Yet the utilization of sensors should be planned as an integral part of the task planning, taken into account several factors such as the tolerance of different inferred properties of the scene and interaction with different agents. In this paper we handle this complex problem in a principled, yet efficient way. We use surrogate predictors based on open-loop simulation to estimate and bound the probability of success for specific tasks. We reason about such task-specific uncertainty approximants and their effectiveness. We show how they can be incorporated into a multi-robot planner, and demonstrate results with a team of robots performing assembly tasks.


Title: Active Motion-Based Communication for Robots with Monocular Vision
Key Words: Bayes methods  decoding  estimation theory  image classification  Kalman filters  Monte Carlo methods  robot vision  online Bayesian estimation algorithm  monocular camera  receiver robot  sending robot  active motion-based communication  accurate trajectory classification  trajectory class distribution  active vision-based control policy  message decoding  trajectory identification  monocular vision model  receiving robot  Trajectory  Receivers  Cameras  Robot vision systems  Bayes methods  Estimation 
Abstract: In this paper, we consider motion as a means of sending messages between robots. We focus on a scenario in which a message is encoded in a sending robot's trajectory, and decoded by a receiver robot equipped with a monocular camera. The relative pose between the robots is unknown. We introduce an online Bayesian estimation algorithm based on the Multi-hypothesis Extended Kalman Filter for the receiving robot to simultaneously estimate its relative pose to the sender, and the trajectory class of the sender. The difficulty in this problem arises from the monocular vision model of the receiver and the unknown relative pose between robots, which brings inherent ambiguity into the trajectory identification, and hence the message decoding. An active vision-based control policy is derived and combined with the Bayesian estimation in order to deal with this difficulty. The policy is constructed online based on Monte Carlo Tree Search and aims at reducing the entropy over the trajectory class distribution. The algorithm has broad applications, e.g., to intent modeling and motion prediction for autonomous driving and autonomous drone operations. Simulation results demonstrate that the proposed estimation algorithm and the control policy result in an accurate trajectory classification.


Title: A Novel Recurrent Neural Network for Improving Redundant Manipulator Motion Planning Completeness
Key Words: collision avoidance  neurocontrollers  recurrent neural nets  redundant manipulators  Recurrent Neural Networks  manipulator control optimization  obstacle avoidance  RNN control  redundant manipulator motion planning  Planning  Manipulators  Task analysis  Recurrent neural networks  Collision avoidance  Robustness  Aerospace electronics  Motion Planning  Kinematic Control  Recurrent Neural Networks  Redundant Manipulator  Robot 
Abstract: Recurrent Neural Networks (RNNs) demonstrated advantages on control precision, system robustness and computational efficiency, and have been widely applied to redundant manipulator control optimization. Existing RNN control schemes locally optimize trajectories and are efficient and reliable on obstacle avoidance. However, for motion planning, they suffer from local minimum and do not have planning completeness. This work explained the cause of the planning incompleteness and addressed the problem with a novel RNN control scheme. The paper presented the proposed method in detail and analyzed the global stability and the planning completeness in theory. The proposed method was compared with other three control schemes on the precision, the robustness and the planning completeness in software simulation and the results shows the proposed method has improved precision and robustness, and planning completeness.


Title: Robust Collision Avoidance via Sliding Control
Key Words: adaptive control  collision avoidance  mobile robots  navigation  nonlinear control systems  parameter estimation  robust control  trajectory control  uncertain systems  variable structure systems  robust collision avoidance  planning algorithms  robots  unknown environments  cluttered environments  model uncertainty  external disturbances  nonlinear control theory  CASC  safe trajectory  parameter estimation  composite adaptive sliding controller  quadrotor navigation  Trajectory  Electron tubes  Uncertainty  Robustness  Optimization  Adaptation models 
Abstract: Recent advances in perception and planning algorithms have enabled robots to navigate autonomously through unknown, cluttered environments at high-speeds. A key component of these systems is the ability to identify, select, and execute a safe trajectory around obstacles. Many of these systems, however, lack performance guarantees because model uncertainty and external disturbances are ignored when a trajectory is selected for execution. This work leverages results from nonlinear control theory to establish a bound on tracking performance that can be used to select a provably safe trajectory. The Composite Adaptive Sliding Controller (CASC) provides robustness to disturbances and reduces model uncertainty through high-rate parameter estimation. CASC is demonstrated in simulation and hardware to significantly improve the performance of a quadrotor navigating through unknown environments with external disturbances and unknown model parameters.


Title: Optimizing Simulations with Noise-Tolerant Structured Exploration
Key Words: digital simulation  fast Fourier transforms  finite difference methods  gradient methods  Hadamard transforms  Jacobian matrices  legged locomotion  Newton method  optimisation  rendering (computer graphics)  Walsh functions  trajectory optimizers  noisy dynamics  quasiNewton optimizer  turning policies  noise-tolerant structured exploration  blackbox optimization  parameter perturbation directions  structured orthogonal matrices  structured finite differences  continuous control tasks  agile walking learning  Fast Walsh-Hadamard Fourier Transform  FWHT FFT  drop-in noise-tolerant replacement  quadruped locomotion  deep reinforcement learning  Mujoco simulator  3D renderers  Perturbation methods  Optimization  Standards  Smoothing methods  Robots  Jacobian matrices  Task analysis 
Abstract: We propose a simple drop-in noise-tolerant replacement for the standard finite difference procedure used ubiquitously in blackbox optimization. In our approach, parameter perturbation directions are defined by a family of structured orthogonal matrices. We show that at the small cost of computing a Fast Walsh-Hadamard/Fourier Transform (FWHT/FFT), such structured finite differences consistently give higher quality approximation of gradients and Jacobians in comparison to vanilla approaches that use coordinate directions or random Gaussian perturbations. We find that trajectory optimizers like Iterative LQR and Differential Dynamic Programming require fewer iterations to solve several classic continuous control tasks when our methods are used to linearize noisy, blackbox dynamics instead of standard finite differences. By embedding structured exploration in a quasi-Newton optimizer (LBFGS), we are able to learn agile walking and turning policies for quadruped locomotion, that successfully transfer from simulation to actual hardware. We theoretically justify our methods via bounds on the quality of gradient reconstruction and provide a basis for applying them also to nonsmooth problems.


Title: Using a Memory of Motion to Efficiently Warm-Start a Nonlinear Predictive Controller
Key Words: autonomous aerial vehicles  iterative methods  learning (artificial intelligence)  nonlinear control systems  optimal control  optimisation  path planning  predictive control  sampling methods  trajectory optimisation (aerospace)  direct optimal control  control policy  optimal state-control trajectories  nonlinear predictive controller  nonlinear optimization problem  model-based methodology  control cycle  kinodynamic probabilistic roadmap  nonlinear solver  unmanned aerial vehicle  UAV  complex dynamical systems  sampling-based planning  policy learning  Computational modeling  Approximation algorithms  Optimal control  Planning  Robots  Trajectory optimization 
Abstract: Predictive control is an efficient model-based methodology to control complex dynamical systems. In general, it boils down to the resolution at each control cycle of a large nonlinear optimization problem. A critical issue is then to provide a good guess to initialize the nonlinear solver so as to speed up convergence. This is particularly important when disturbances or changes in the environment prevent the use of the trajectory computed at the previous control cycle as initial guess. In this paper, we introduce an original and very efficient solution to automatically build this initial guess. We propose to rely on off-line computation to build an approximation of the optimal trajectories, that can be used on-line to initialize the predictive controller. To that end, we combined the use of sampling-based planning, policy learning with generic representations (such as neural networks), and direct optimal control. We first propose an algorithm to simultaneously build a kinodynamic probabilistic roadmap (PRM) and approximate value function and control policy. This algorithm quickly converges toward an approximation of the optimal state-control trajectories (along with an optimal PRM). Then, we propose two methods to store the optimal trajectories and use them to initialize the predictive controller. We experimentally show that directly storing the state-control trajectories leads the predictive controller to quickly converges (2 to 5 iterations) toward the (global) optimal solution. The results are validated in simulation with an unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV) and other dynamical systems.


Title: Goal Directed Dynamics
Key Words: control engineering computing  end effectors  humanoid robots  learning (artificial intelligence)  manipulator dynamics  motion control  quadratic programming  robot dynamics  telerobotics  forward dynamics  greedy optimization  feature-based control  control policies  trajectory optimization  goal directed dynamics  general control framework  low-level optimizer  robot dynamics  dynamical system  high level command  cost function  end-effector poses  soft-constraint physics model  quadratic programming framework  teleoperation  MuJoCo simulator  Acceleration  Robots  Force  Cost function  Dynamics 
Abstract: We develop a general control framework where a low-level optimizer is built into the robot dynamics. This optimizer together with the robot constitute a goal directed dynamical system, controlled on a higher level. The high level command is a cost function. It can encode desired accelerations, end-effector poses, center of pressure, and other intuitive features that have been studied before. Unlike the currently popular quadratic programming framework, which comes with performance guarantees at the expense of modeling flexibility, the optimization problem we solve at each time step is non-convex and non-smooth. Nevertheless, by exploiting the unique properties of the soft-constraint physics model we have recently developed, we are able to design an efficient solver for goal directed dynamics. It is only two times slower than the forward dynamics solver, and is much faster than real time. The simulation results reveal that complex movements can be generated via greedy optimization of simple costs. This new computational infrastructure can facilitate teleoperation, feature-based control, deep learning of control policies, and trajectory optimization. It will become a standard feature in future releases of the MuJoCo simulator.


Title: Time-Optimal Path Tracking via Reachability Analysis
Key Words: control system analysis  mobile robots  path planning  perturbation techniques  reachability analysis  time optimal control  torque control  trajectory control  geometric path  control strategy  tracking controller  path parameterization problems  reachability analysis  time-optimal path tracking problem  tracking error regulation  reference trajectory  tracking performance degradation  path controller parameterization  joint torques  torque bounds  perturbations  Trajectory  Torque  Robustness  Perturbation methods  Acceleration  Manipulator dynamics 
Abstract: Given a geometric path, the Time-Optimal Path Tracking problem consists in finding the control strategy to traverse the path time-optimally while regulating tracking errors. A simple yet effective approach to this problem is to decompose the controller into two components: (i) a path controller, which modulates the parameterization of the desired path in an online manner, yielding a reference trajectory; and (ii) a tracking controller, which takes the reference trajectory and outputs joint torques for tracking. However, there is one major difficulty: the path controller might not find any feasible reference trajectory that can be tracked by the tracking controller because of torque bounds. In turn, this results in degraded tracking performances. Here, we propose a new path controller that is guaranteed to find feasible reference trajectories by accounting for possible future perturbations. The main technical tool underlying the proposed controller is Reachability Analysis, a new method for analyzing path parameterization problems. Simulations show that the proposed controller outperforms existing methods.


Title: Acceleration of Gradient-Based Path Integral Method for Efficient Optimal and Inverse Optimal Control
Key Words: convergence of numerical methods  gradient methods  learning (artificial intelligence)  optimal control  optimisation  predictive control  gradient-based path integral method  inverse optimal control  accelerated path integral method  gradient descent  iterative path integral method  optimization methods  momentum-based acceleration  momentum-based methods  Nesterov Accelerated Gradient  simulated control systems  model predictive control  path integral networks  accelerated PI-Net  reinforcement learning  Iterative methods  Acceleration  Optimal control  Convergence  Mirrors  Trajectory  Vehicle dynamics 
Abstract: This paper deals with a new accelerated path integral method, which iteratively searches optimal controls with a small number of iterations. This study is based on the recent observations that a path integral method for reinforcement learning can be interpreted as gradient descent. This observation also applies to an iterative path integral method for optimal control, which sets a convincing argument for utilizing various optimization methods for gradient descent, such as momentum-based acceleration, step-size adaptation and their combination. We introduce these types of methods to the path integral and demonstrate that momentum-based methods, like Nesterov Accelerated Gradient and Adam, can significantly improve the convergence rate to search for optimal controls in simulated control systems. We also demonstrate that the accelerated path integral could improve the performance on model predictive control for various vehicle navigation tasks. Finally, we represent this accelerated path integral method as a recurrent network, which is the accelerated version of the previously proposed path integral networks (PI-Net). We can train the accelerated PI-Net more efficiently for inverse optimal control with less RAM than the original PI-Net.


Title: Charging Station Placement for Indoor Robotic Applications
Key Words: computability  mobile robots  path planning  indoor robotic application  battery  satisfiability modulo theory  charging station placement problem  autonomous mobile robot  Charging stations  Trajectory  Batteries  Planning  Mobile robots  Task analysis 
Abstract: For an autonomous mobile robot, when the available power goes below a certain threshold, the robot needs to abort its current task and move towards a charging station to recharge its battery. The efficiency of an autonomous mobile robot depends significantly on the location of the charging stations. In this paper, we address the charging station placement problem for mobile robots in a controlled workspace. We propose two algorithms to place a number of charging stations so that a robot is always capable of reaching one of the charging stations from any obstacle-free location in the workspace without aborting its task too early. We reduce the charging-station placement problem to a series of Satisfiability Modulo Theory (SMT) problems and use the off-the-shelf SMT solver Z3 to implement our algorithm. The algorithm produces as output the locations of the charging stations in the workspace and the trajectories from any obstacle-free locations to one of the charging stations. Our experimental results show how our algorithm can efficiently find the locations of the charging stations and robot trajectories to reach the charging stations. We demonstrate through simulation how the generated trajectories can be effectively used by a robot to reach a charging stations autonomously without getting depleted with power.


Title: Generating Assistive Humanoid Motions for Co-Manipulation Tasks with a Multi-Robot Quadratic Program Controller
Key Words: humanoid robots  mobile robots  motion control  multi-robot systems  optimal control  quadratic programming  human-humanoid collaborative tasks  multirobot quadratic program controller  human dynamics reconstruction  optimal robot controls  interaction motions  interaction forces  humanoid controller  co-manipulation tasks  robot platform simulation  optimization problem  Task analysis  Dynamics  Robot sensing systems  Mathematical model  Optimization  Humanoid robots 
Abstract: Human-humanoid collaborative tasks require that the robot take into account the goals of the task, interaction forces with the human, and its own balance. We present a formulation for a real-time humanoid controller which allows the robot to keep itself balanced, while also assisting the human in achieving their shared objectives. We achieve this with a multi-robot quadratic program controller, which solves for human dynamics reconstruction and optimal robot controls in a single optimization problem. Our experiments on a simulated robot platform demonstrate the ability to generate interaction motions and forces that are similar to what a human collaborator would produce.


Title: Affordance-Based Multi-Contact Whole-Body Pose Sequence Planning for Humanoid Robots in Unknown Environments
Key Words: end effectors  humanoid robots  manipulators  mobile robots  motion control  stability  end-effectors  multicontact contact pose sequence planning  humanoid robot ARMAR-4  loco-manipulation tasks  contacts  loco-manipulation affordances  vision-based detection  whole-body multicontact tasks  motion planning  multicontact pose sequences  goal-directed planning  end-effector contact opportunities  autonomous detection  whole-body loco-manipulation actions  autonomous planning  humanoid robotics  humanoid robots  whole-body pose sequence planning  affordance-based multicontact  Planning  Humanoid robots  Task analysis  Motion segmentation  Robot sensing systems  Complexity theory 
Abstract: Despite impressive advances of humanoid robotics, the autonomous planning of whole-body loco-manipulation actions in unknown environments is still an open problem. In our previous work, we addressed two fundamental aspects related to this problem: 1) the autonomous detection of end-effector contact opportunities in unknown environments and 2) the goal-directed planning of multi-contact pose sequences, which can serve as the starting point for motion planning and control approaches of reduced complexity. Both problems suffer from the extensive amounts of possible solutions, particularly due to the complexity of humanoid robots and the multitude of available contact opportunities. In this paper, we propose a method for the planning of whole-body multi-contact tasks based on our previous work on vision-based detection of loco-manipulation affordances and whole-body multi-contact pose sequence planning. We demonstrate a combined approach for planning multi-contact pose sequences with a focus on the utilization of available end-effectors for stabilizing contacts with the environment during loco-manipulation tasks. The method is evaluated in simulation in multiple exemplary scenarios based on actual sensor data and the humanoid robot ARMAR-4.


Title: Early Turn-Taking Prediction with Spiking Neural Networks for Human Robot Collaboration
Key Words: cognition  control engineering computing  groupware  human computer interaction  human-robot interaction  medical computing  medical robotics  neural nets  surgery  team working  user interfaces  early prediction capability  turn-taking actions  early turn-taking prediction  Spiking Neural networks  human robot collaboration  human teamwork  Cognitive Turn-taking Model  turn-taking prediction algorithms  CTTM  robotic scrub nurse  human turn-taking intentions  multimodal human communication cues  Neurons  Robot kinematics  Task analysis  Training  Teamwork 
Abstract: Turn-taking is essential to the structure of human teamwork. Humans are typically aware of team members' intention to keep or relinquish their turn before a turn switch, where the responsibility of working on a shared task is shifted. Future co-robots are also expected to provide such competence. To that end, this paper proposes the Cognitive Turn-taking Model (CTTM), which leverages cognitive models (i.e., Spiking Neural Network) to achieve early turn-taking prediction. The CTTM framework can process multimodal human communication cues (both implicit and explicit) and predict human turn-taking intentions in an early stage. The proposed framework is tested on a simulated surgical procedure, where a robotic scrub nurse predicts the surgeon's turn-taking intention. It was found that the proposed CTTM framework outperforms the state-of-the-art turn-taking prediction algorithms by a large margin. It also outperforms humans when presented with partial observations of communication cues (i.e., less than 40 % of full actions). This early prediction capability enables robots to initiate turn-taking actions at an early stage, which facilitates collaboration and increases overall efficiency.


Title: Learning Human Ergonomic Preferences for Handovers
Key Words: ergonomics  human-robot interaction  manipulators  human ergonomic preferences  handovers  robots  ergonomic human grasping configurations  ergonomic cost function  online estimation problem  in-person user study  Ergonomics  Handover  Cost function  Training  Manipulators 
Abstract: Our goal is for people to be physically comfortable when taking objects from robots. This puts a burden on the robot to hand over the object in such a way that a person can easily reach it, without needing to strain or twist their arm - a way that is conducive to ergonomic human grasping configurations. To achieve this, the robot needs to understand what makes a configuration more or less ergonomic to the person, i.e. their ergonomic cost function. In this work, we formulate learning a person's ergonomic cost as an online estimation problem. The robot can implicitly make queries to the person by handing them objects in different configurations, and gets observations in response about the way they choose to take the object. We compare the performance of both passive and active approaches for solving this problem in simulation, as well as in an in-person user study.


Title: SE3-Pose-Nets: Structured Deep Dynamics Models for Visuomotor Control
Key Words: cameras  closed loop systems  control engineering computing  gradient methods  image colour analysis  image segmentation  industrial robots  learning (artificial intelligence)  minimisation  neural nets  pose estimation  robot dynamics  robot vision  SE3-pose-Nets  deep visuomotor control  SE3-Nets  encoder-decoder structure  pose embedding  point-wise data associations  closed-loop control  scene dynamics  structred deep dynamics models  pose error minimization  gradient-based methods  Baxter robot  Three-dimensional displays  Predictive models  Transforms  Computational modeling  Data models  Aerospace electronics  Training 
Abstract: In this work, we present an approach to deep visuomotor control using structured deep dynamics models. Our model, a variant of SE3-Nets, learns a low-dimensional pose embedding for visuomotor control via an encoder-decoder structure. Unlike prior work, our model is structured: given an input scene, our network explicitly learns to segment salient parts and predict their pose embedding and motion, modeled as a change in the pose due to the applied actions. We train our model using a pair of point clouds separated by an action and show that given supervision only through point-wise data associations between the frames our network is able to learn a meaningful segmentation of the scene along with consistent poses. We further show that our model can be used for closed-loop control directly in the learned low-dimensional pose space, where the actions are computed by minimizing pose error using gradient-based methods, similar to traditional model-based control. We present results on controlling a Baxter robot from raw depth data in simulation and RGBD data in the real world and compare against two baseline deep networks. We also test the robustness and generalization performance of our controller under changes in camera pose, lighting, occlusion, and motion. Our method is robust, runs in real-time, achieves good prediction of scene dynamics, and outperforms baselines on multiple control runs. Video results can be found at: https://rse-lab.cs.washington.edu/se3-structured-deep-ctrl/.


Title: Multimodal Probabilistic Model-Based Planning for Human-Robot Interaction
Key Words: decision making  human-robot interaction  intelligent transportation systems  learning (artificial intelligence)  probability  highway on-ramp-off-ramps  human-robot interaction policies  multimodal probabilistic model-based planning  traffic weaving scenario  human-in-the-loop simulation  candidate future robot actions  interaction history  action distributions  direct learning  candidate robot action sequences  human responses  massively parallel sampling  real-time robot policy construction  human-human exemplars  future human actions  multimodal probability distributions  inherent multimodal uncertainty  experienced drivers  entering exiting cars  decision making  Robots  Vehicles  Predictive models  History  Cognition  Probabilistic logic  Weaving 
Abstract: This paper presents a method for constructing human-robot interaction policies in settings where multimodality, i.e., the possibility of multiple highly distinct futures, plays a critical role in decision making. We are motivated in this work by the example of traffic weaving, e.g., at highway on-ramps/off-ramps, where entering and exiting cars must swap lanes in a short distance-a challenging negotiation even for experienced drivers due to the inherent multimodal uncertainty of who will pass whom. Our approach is to learn multimodal probability distributions over future human actions from a dataset of human-human exemplars and perform real-time robot policy construction in the resulting environment model through massively parallel sampling of human responses to candidate robot action sequences. Direct learning of these distributions is made possible by recent advances in the theory of conditional variational autoencoders (CVAEs), whereby we learn action distributions simultaneously conditioned on the present interaction history, as well as candidate future robot actions in order to take into account response dynamics. We demonstrate the efficacy of this approach with a human-in-the-loop simulation of a traffic weaving scenario.


Title: Optimisation of Trap Design for Vibratory Bowl Feeders
Key Words: assembling  Bayes methods  design engineering  optimisation  production engineering computing  prototypes  regression analysis  vibrations  trap design  vibratory bowl feeders  industrial part feeding  VBF design  optimal parameter  passive devices  dynamic simulation  modified Upper Confidence Bound  Bayesian optimisation  kernel density estimation  regression analysis  prototypes  assembling  Optimization  Bayes methods  Task analysis  Vibrations  Shape  Manuals  Robustness 
Abstract: Vibratory bowl feeders (VBFs) are a widely used option for industrial part feeding, but their design is still largely manual. A subtask of VBF design is determining an optimal parameter set for the passive devices, called traps, which the VBF uses to ensure correct part orientation. This paper proposes a fast and robust strategy for optimising traps, which makes use of dynamic simulation to efficiently evaluate the performance of parameter sets. The optimisation strategy is based on Bayesian Optimisation and selects new parameter sets to evaluate, using a modified Upper Confidence Bound with regression by Kernel Density Estimation as function estimator. The optimisation is run for four different traps with an industrial part and the best parameter sets are tested for robustness in simulation. The traps are then combined to create two sequences performing orientation of the parts and the designs are prototyped and tested on a real VBF.


Title: Multi-Task Domain Adaptation for Deep Learning of Instance Grasping from Simulation
Key Words: feature extraction  image segmentation  learning (artificial intelligence)  manipulators  neural nets  robot vision  multitask domain adaptation  deep learning  successful grasping probability  transfer learning framework  domain-adversarial loss  candidate motor command  specified target object  instance segmentation mask  monocular RGB images  neural network  cluttered scenes  instance grasping  robotic manipulation  Grasping  Robots  Adaptation models  Data models  Feature extraction  Image segmentation  Neural networks 
Abstract: Learning-based approaches to robotic manipulation are limited by the scalability of data collection and accessibility of labels. In this paper, we present a multi-task domain adaptation framework for instance grasping in cluttered scenes by utilizing simulated robot experiments. Our neural network takes monocular RGB images and the instance segmentation mask of a specified target object as inputs, and predicts the probability of successfully grasping the specified object for each candidate motor command. The proposed transfer learning framework trains a model for instance grasping in simulation and uses a domain-adversarial loss to transfer the trained model to real robots using indiscriminate grasping data, which is available both in simulation and the real world. We evaluate our model in real-world robot experiments, comparing it with alternative model architectures as well as an indiscriminate grasping baseline.


Title: 1-Actuator 3-DoF Manipulation Using a Virtual Turntable Based on Differential Friction Surface
Key Words: actuators  dexterous manipulators  end effectors  friction  manipulator dynamics  motion control  plates (structures)  position control  flat plate  manipulator  active-passive hybrid joint mechanism  surface friction property  3- DoF manipulation strategy  virtual turntable  1-actuator 3-DoF manipulation  differential friction surface  nonprehensile manipulation  single actuator  manipulation strategy  Friction  Actuators  Orbits  Vibrations  End effectors  Frequency control 
Abstract: This paper describes nonprehensile manipulation realized using the vibration of a plate. A novel manipulation strategy is proposed wherein the three degrees-of-freedom (DoF) of a part are controlled by only one actuator. First, a manipulator driven by a single actuator is introduced. The end effector of this manipulator is a flat plate. The manipulator employs an active-passive hybrid joint mechanism with nonparallel axes. Based on the sinusoidal displacement input to the actuator, the manipulator can generate the velocity of a part omnidirectionally on the plate. Next, simulation results are presented to show that the velocity map of the part varies depending upon the surface friction property of the plate. Further, the control of the rotational behavior of the part on the boundary of two areas with different friction properties by means of the input frequency is shown. Based on this control, a 3- DoF manipulation strategy using a virtual turntable is developed to realize the desired position and orientation of the part. Finally, the proposed method is demonstrated via experiments.


Title: Online Probabilistic Change Detection in Feature-Based Maps
Key Words: compressed sensing  feature extraction  image representation  object detection  probability  sensor fusion  terrain mapping  online data association decisions  online probabilistic change detection  sparse feature-based maps  compact representation  static map features  feature repeatability  probabilistically principled approach  sparse mapping model  Feature extraction  Simultaneous localization and mapping  Robustness  Heuristic algorithms  Probabilistic logic  Visualization 
Abstract: Sparse feature-based maps provide a compact representation of the environment that admit efficient algorithms, for example simultaneous localization and mapping. These representations typically assume a static world and therefore contain static map features. However, since the world contains dynamic elements, determining when map features no longer correspond to the environment is essential for long-term utility. This work develops a feature-based model of the environment which evolves over time through feature persistence. Moreover, we augment the state-of-the-art sparse mapping model with a correlative structure that captures spatio-temporal properties, e.g. that nearby features frequently have similar persistence. We show that such relationships, typically addressed through an ad hoc formalism focusing only on feature repeatability, are crucial to evaluate through a probabilistically principled approach. The joint posterior over feature persistence can be computed efficiently and used to improve online data association decisions for localization. The proposed algorithms are validated in numerical simulation and using publicly available data sets.


Title: The Dynamic Bearing Observability Matrix Nonlinear Observability and Estimation for Multi-Agent Systems
Key Words: geometry  group theory  Kalman filters  Lie groups  matrix algebra  multi-agent systems  multi-robot systems  nonlinear filters  multiagent formations  dynamic agents  algebraic properties  first-order derivatives  nonlinear observability theory  higher order derivatives  localization problem  dynamic bearing observability matrix nonlinear observability  multiagent systems  rigidity matrix  Observability  Robot sensing systems  Geometry  Manifolds  Cameras  Estimation 
Abstract: We consider the problem of localization in multiagent formations with bearing only measurements, and analyze the fundamental observability properties for dynamic agents. The current well-established approach is based on the socalled rigidity matrix, and its algebraic properties (e.g., its rank and nullspace). This method is typically motivated using first-order derivatives, and shows, among other facts, that the global scale of the formation is not observable. This work shows that current results represent an incomplete view of the problem. In particular, we show that 1) current methods are a particular instantiation of nonlinear observability theory, 2) we can introduce the concept of the dynamic bearing observability matrix from higher order derivatives to study the observability of dynamic formations, and 3) the global scale is, in fact, generally observable when the agents move according to known inputs. We use tools from Riemannian geometry and Lie group theory to tackle, in a general and principled way, the general formulation of the localization problem with states that include both rotations and translations. Finally, we verify our theoretical results by deriving and applying, in both simulations and real experiments on UAVs, a centralized Extended Kalman Filter on Lie groups that is able to estimate the global scale of a moving formation.


Title: Constrained-Action POMDPs for Multi-Agent Intelligent Knowledge Distribution
Key Words: decision theory  intelligent control  Markov processes  Monte Carlo methods  multi-agent systems  multi-robot systems  optimal control  optimisation  multiagent intelligent knowledge distribution  infinite-horizon policy  minimal constraint guarantees  constraint analysis  information content  Markov chain Monte Carlo analysis  probabilistic constraint satisfaction  partially observable Markov decision processes  action-based constraints  multiagent coordination  multiagent systems  communication requirements  constrained-action POMDPs  Markov processes  Collaboration  Monte Carlo methods  Bandwidth  Proposals  Entropy  Power capacitors 
Abstract: This paper addresses a fundamental question of multi-agent knowledge distribution: what information should be sent to whom and when, with the limited resources available to each agent? Intelligent Knowledge Distribution is a framework that answers these questions. Communication requirements for multi-agent systems can be rather high when an accurate picture of the environment and the state of other agents must be maintained. To reduce the impact of multi-agent coordination on systems, including communications, this paper introduces the concept of action-based constraints on partially observable Markov decision processes, rewards based upon the value of information driven by Kullback-Leibler Divergence, and probabilistic constraint satisfaction through discrete optimization and Markov chain Monte Carlo analysis. Intelligent Knowledge Distribution is driven by determining the information content an agent believes another agent will obtain by receiving certain information, along with the importance or relevance of that information to the system objective. To perform constraint analysis on an infinite-horizon policy, policies are represented as a Finite State Controller allowing Markov chain Monte Carlo analysis to determine a probabilistic level of guarantee that the constraints will be satisfied. The analysis of performance for an example mission presented in this paper shows the constrained controllers, during the highest constraint seen in simulations, can be constructed to meet minimal constraint guarantees (80%) while impacting the optimal value less than 50%, where the unconstrained optimal controller only satisfied the constraint 10% of the time.


Title: Incorporating Potential Contingency Tasks in Multi-Robot Mission Planning
Key Words: mobile robots  multi-robot systems  path planning  probability  potential contingency task  multirobot mission planning  expected mission completion time  probability  Task analysis  Robot kinematics  Uncertainty  Schedules  Marine vehicles  Resource management 
Abstract: In most complex missions, unexpected situations arise that may interfere with the planned execution of mission tasks. These situations result in the generation of contingency tasks that need to be executed before the originally planned tasks are completed. Potential contingency tasks may not always affect mission tasks due to the inherent uncertainty in the environment. Deferring action on a potential contingency task may incur a penalty in terms of wasted time due to idle robots if the contingency task becomes a bottleneck in the future. On the other hand, immediate action on a potential contingency task may incur a penalty in terms of wasted time if the contingency task did not actually impact the mission. When a contingency task is reported, the planner generates an updated plan that minimizes expected mission completion time by taking into account the probability of the contingency task impacting mission tasks, its effect on the mission, and its spatial location. We have characterized the performance of the algorithm through simulation experiments. We show that the proactive approach to contingency task management outperforms a conservative approach.


Title: Distributed Simultaneous Action and Target Assignment for Multi-Robot Multi-Target Tracking
Key Words: computational complexity  distributed control  multi-robot systems  target tracking  O(hlog1/ε) communication rounds  distributed simultaneous action  multirobot multitarget tracking  multirobot assignment problems  Robot sensing systems  Target tracking  Approximation algorithms  Partitioning algorithms 
Abstract: We study two multi-robot assignment problems for multi-target tracking. We consider distributed approaches in order to deal with limited sensing and communication ranges. We seek to simultaneously assign trajectories and targets to the robots. Our focus is on local algorithms that achieve performance close to the optimal algorithms with limited communication. We show how to use a local algorithm that guarantees a bounded approximate solution within O(hlog1/ε) communication rounds. We compare with a greedy approach that achieves a 2-approximation in as many rounds as the number of robots. Simulation results show that the local algorithm is an effective solution to the assignment problem.


Title: Learning 6-DOF Grasping Interaction via Deep Geometry-Aware 3D Representations
Key Words: convolution  dexterous manipulators  geometry  grippers  image reconstruction  image representation  intelligent robots  learning (artificial intelligence)  optimisation  recurrent neural nets  virtual reality  outcome prediction model  3D shape modeling  DGGN  analysis-by-synthesis optimization  6-DOF grasping net  virtual reality  sensory annotations  data augmentation strategy  CNN  3D occupancy grid  mental geometry-aware representation  deep geometry-aware grasping network  3D geometry prediction  grasping interaction learning  parallel jaw gripper  RGBD input  internal geometry-aware representation  Grasping  Three-dimensional displays  Shape  Geometry  Solid modeling  Two dimensional displays  Robots 
Abstract: This paper focuses on the problem of learning 6- DOF grasping with a parallel jaw gripper in simulation. Our key idea is constraining and regularizing grasping interaction learning through 3D geometry prediction. We introduce a deep geometry-aware grasping network (DGGN) that decomposes the learning into two steps. First, we learn to build mental geometry-aware representation by reconstructing the scene (i.e., 3D occupancy grid) from RGBD input via generative 3D shape modeling. Second, we learn to predict grasping outcome with its internal geometry-aware representation. The learned outcome prediction model is used to sequentially propose grasping solutions via analysis-by-synthesis optimization. Our contributions are fourfold: (1) To best of our knowledge, we are presenting for the first time a method to learn a 6-DOF grasping net from RGBD input; (2) We build a grasping dataset from demonstrations in virtual reality with rich sensory and interaction annotations. This dataset includes 101 everyday objects spread across 7 categories, additionally, we propose a data augmentation strategy for effective learning; (3) We demonstrate that the learned geometry-aware representation leads to about 10% relative performance improvement over the baseline CNN on grasping objects from our dataset. (4) We further demonstrate that the model generalizes to novel viewpoints and object instances.


Title: Interactively Picking Real-World Objects with Unconstrained Spoken Language Instructions
Key Words: industrial robots  interactive systems  learning (artificial intelligence)  manipulators  natural language interfaces  natural language processing  object detection  robot vision  natural language processing technologies  unconstrained spoken instructions  instruction ambiguity  physical industrial robot arm  natural instructions  object picking task  real-world objects  unconstrained spoken language instructions  spoken natural language  human instructions  comprehensive system  Task analysis  Object recognition  Natural languages  Object detection  Feature extraction  Service robots 
Abstract: Comprehension of spoken natural language is an essential skill for robots to communicate with humans effectively. However, handling unconstrained spoken instructions is challenging due to (1) complex structures and the wide variety of expressions used in spoken language, and (2) inherent ambiguity of human instructions. In this paper, we propose the first comprehensive system for controlling robots with unconstrained spoken language, which is able to effectively resolve ambiguity in spoken instructions. Specifically, we integrate deep learning-based object detection together with natural language processing technologies to handle unconstrained spoken instructions, and propose a method for robots to resolve instruction ambiguity through dialogue. Through our experiments on both a simulated environment as well as a physical industrial robot arm, we demonstrate the ability of our system to understand natural instructions from human operators effectively, and show how higher success rates of the object picking task can be achieved through an interactive clarification process.


Title: Sim-to-Real Transfer of Robotic Control with Dynamics Randomization
Key Words: calibration  mobile robots  multi-agent systems  multi-robot systems  robot dynamics  sim-to-real transfer  robotic control  dynamics randomization  training agents  training process  robotic arm  calibration error  Robots  Training  Adaptation models  Task analysis  Trajectory  Data models  Robustness 
Abstract: Simulations are attractive environments for training agents as they provide an abundant source of data and alleviate certain safety concerns during the training process. But the behaviours developed by agents in simulation are often specific to the characteristics of the simulator. Due to modeling error, strategies that are successful in simulation may not transfer to their real world counterparts. In this paper, we demonstrate a simple method to bridge this “reality gap”. By randomizing the dynamics of the simulator during training, we are able to develop policies that are capable of adapting to very different dynamics, including ones that differ significantly from the dynamics on which the policies were trained. This adaptivity enables the policies to generalize to the dynamics of the real world without any training on the physical system. Our approach is demonstrated on an object pushing task using a robotic arm. Despite being trained exclusively in simulation, our policies are able to maintain a similar level of performance when deployed on a real robot, reliably moving an object to a desired location from random initial configurations. We explore the impact of various design decisions and show that the resulting policies are robust to significant calibration error.


Title: Vision Based Collaborative Path Planning for Micro Aerial Vehicles
Key Words: cameras  collision avoidance  covariance matrices  mobile robots  optimisation  path planning  robot vision  trees (mathematics)  microaerial vehicles  collaborative path-planning framework  localization uncertainty  two-step planning framework  visual-fidelity aerial vehicle simulator  Planning  Uncertainty  Cameras  Three-dimensional displays  Collaboration  Optimization  Path planning 
Abstract: In this paper, we present a collaborative path-planning framework for a group of micro aerial vehicles that are capable of localizing through vision. Each of the micro aerial vehicles is assumed to be equipped with a forward facing monocular camera. The vehicles initially use their captured images to build 3D maps through common features; and subsequently track these features to localize through 3D-2D correspondences. The planning algorithm, while connecting start locations to provided goal locations, also aims to reduce the localization uncertainty of the vehicles in the group. To achieve this, we develop a two-step planning framework: the first step attempts to build an improved map of the environment by solving the next-best-view problem for multiple cameras. We express this as a black-box optimization problem and solve it using the Covariance Matrix Adaption evolution strategy (CMA-ES). Once an improved map is available, the second stage of the planning framework performs belief space planning for the vehicles individually using the rapidly exploring random belief tree (RRBT) algorithm. Through the RRBT approach, the planner generates paths that ensure feature visibility while attempting to optimize path cost and reduce localization uncertainty. We validate our approach using experiments conducted in a high visual-fidelity aerial vehicle simulator, Microsoft AirSim.


Title: Approximation Algorithms for Tours of Orientation-Varying View Cones
Key Words: approximation theory  computational complexity  travelling salesman problems  apex angle  3D traveling salesman problem  shorter tours  tilted Cone-TSPN problem  planar surface  apex points  inverted cone views  shortest tour  orientation-varying view cones  approximation algorithms  Approximation algorithms  Three-dimensional displays  Task analysis  Traveling salesman problems  Lakes  Animals  Cameras 
Abstract: This paper considers the problem of finding the shortest tour to cover a given set of inverted cone views with apex angle α and height H when their apex points lie on a planar surface. This is a novel variant of the 3D Traveling Salesman Problem with intersecting Neighborhoods (TSPN) called Cone-TSPN. When the cones are allowed to tilt by an angle c we have the tilted Cone-TSPN problem, to which we present an algorithm that returns a solution with an approximation ratio of O (1+tan α/1-tan ϵ tan α (1 + log max(H)/min(H)). We demonstrate through simulations that our algorithm can be implemented in a practical way and by exploiting the structure of the cones we can achieve shorter tours. Finally, we present results from covering a reflective surface (lake area) that shows the importance of selecting different view angles under strong sunlight specularities.


Title: Decoupled Motion Control of Wearable Robot for Rejecting Human Induced Disturbances
Key Words: artificial limbs  dexterous manipulators  medical robotics  mobile robots  motion control  position control  wearable robots  human arm  human induced disturbances  data-driven latent space impedance control method  latent space impedance controller  wearable robotic fingers  decoupled motion control  wearable extra limbs  human movement  self-standing robots  single-handed object manipulation  5G mobile communication  Conferences  Automation  Australia 
Abstract: When a human performs a task with the assistance of wearable extra limbs, the human movement for performing the task may inadvertently disturb the position and orientation of the robot base, making it difficult for the robot to properly carry out its objective. Therefore, unlike self-standing robots, a wearable robot must not only assist the user without interfering or prohibiting the natural human movement, but also have the capability to detect and reject disturbances caused by the wearer's motion. This paper examines such a situation, where the human attempts to twist open a bottle while a pair of robotic fingers mounted on the same arm holds the bottle in place. As the human arm rotates to twist the cap, the robot and consequently the bottle would rotate in that same direction, which makes separation of the cap from the bottle almost impossible. To compensate for the human induced disturbances, a data-driven latent space impedance control method is developed such that the robot can secure the bottle and at the same time allow natural human movement to be carried out during manipulation. Simulation and experiments have demonstrated the efficacy of the latent space impedance controller to enable single-handed object manipulation with the assistance of wearable robotic fingers.


Title: Modelling and Control of a Novel Soft Crawling Robot Based on a Dielectric Elastomer Actuator
Key Words: elastomers  electric actuators  electroactive polymer actuators  feedback  feedforward  mobile robots  motion control  viscoelasticity  dielectric elastomer actuator  soft crawling robot  inchworms  viscoelasticity  feedforward plus feedback control scheme  motion control  Force  Actuators  Soft robotics  Friction  Steady-state  Electrodes 
Abstract: Soft robots have recently evoked extensive attention due to their abilities to work effectively in unstructured environments. As an actuation technology of soft robots, dielectric elastomers exhibit many intriguing attributes such as large strain and high energy density. This work presents a novel dielectric elastomer based soft crawling robot inspired by inchworms. To fill the need of control of the soft robot, a model describing the interaction between the dielectric elastomer actuator and the environment is proposed, which takes inertia, viscoelasticity and friction into consideration. The model can well describe the robot's dynamic performances and the modelling approach used here can be extended to other dielectric elastomer actuators with complicated geometries for control purposes. The obtained model allows us to design a feedforward plus feedback control scheme for the robot to achieve desired motion. Simulation shows fast response and good tracking performances which are further confirmed by the experiments.


Title: Geometry-based Direct Simulation for Multi-Material Soft Robots
Key Words: calibration  deformation  design engineering  elasticity  geometry  manipulators  motion control  optimisation  pneumatic actuators  shapes (structures)  three-dimensional printing  material properties  deformation simulation  deformed shape  geometry-based direct simulation  multimaterial soft robots  soft materials  motion simulation  robots fabrication  numerical optimization  pneumatic actuators  cable-driven  calibration  design engineering  manipulators  3D-printing  elasticity  Shape  Soft robotics  Strain  Computational modeling  Optimization  Numerical models  Deformable models 
Abstract: Robots fabricated by soft materials can provide higher flexibility and thus better safety while interacting with natural objects with low stiffness such as food and human beings. However, as many more degrees of freedom are introduced, the motion simulation of a soft robot becomes cumbersome, especially when large deformations are presented. Moreover, when the actuation is defined by geometry variation, it is not easy to obtain the exact loads and material properties to be used in the conventional methods of deformation simulation. In this paper, we present a direct approach to take the geometric actuation as input and compute the deformed shape of soft robots by numerical optimization using a geometry-based algorithm. By a simple calibration, the properties of multiple materials can be modeled geometrically in the framework. Numerical and experimental tests have been conducted to demonstrate the performance of our approach on both cable-driven and pneumatic actuators in soft robotics.


Title: Efficient FEM-Based Simulation of Soft Robots Modeled as Kinematic Chains
Key Words: dexterous manipulators  finite element analysis  pneumatic actuators  soft manipulation  soft hands  environmental constraints  object surfaces  simulation technologies  triple-layered simulation framework  dynamic properties  lumped parameter model  fast simulate soft fingers  soft pneumatic fingers  soft robots modeled  kinematic chains  robotic manipulation  grasping  force closure  single posture  contact-rich  FEM-based simulation  FEM simulation data  Computational modeling  Actuators  Deformable models  Finite element analysis  Data models  Object oriented modeling  Robots 
Abstract: In the context of robotic manipulation and grasping, the shift from a view that is static (force closure of a single posture) and contact-deprived (only contact for force closure is allowed, everything else is obstacle) towards a view that is dynamic and contact-rich (soft manipulation) has led to an increased interest in soft hands. These hands can easily exploit environmental constraints and object surfaces without risk, and safely interact with humans, but present also some challenges. Designing them is difficult, as well as predicting, modelling, and “programming” their interactions with the objects and the environment. This paper tackles the problem of simulating them in a fast and effective way, leveraging on novel and existing simulation technologies. We present a triple-layered simulation framework where dynamic properties such as stiffness are determined from slow but accurate FEM simulation data once, and then condensed into a lumped parameter model that can be used to fast simulate soft fingers and soft hands. We apply our approach to the simulation of soft pneumatic fingers.


Title: Using Simulation and Domain Adaptation to Improve Efficiency of Deep Robotic Grasping
Key Words: image colour analysis  manipulators  neurocontrollers  robot vision  deep robotic grasping  off-the-shelf simulators  ground-truth annotations  randomized simulated environments  domain adaptation methods  grasping system  raw monocular RGB images  pixel-level domain adaptation  real-world grasping performance  annotated visual grasping datasets  GraspGAN  generative adversial network  Grasping  Robots  Training  Feature extraction  Adaptation models  Cameras  Task analysis 
Abstract: Instrumenting and collecting annotated visual grasping datasets to train modern machine learning algorithms can be extremely time-consuming and expensive. An appealing alternative is to use off-the-shelf simulators to render synthetic data for which ground-truth annotations are generated automatically. Unfortunately, models trained purely on simulated data often fail to generalize to the real world. We study how randomized simulated environments and domain adaptation methods can be extended to train a grasping system to grasp novel objects from raw monocular RGB images. We extensively evaluate our approaches with a total of more than 25,000 physical test grasps, studying a range of simulation conditions and domain adaptation methods, including a novel extension of pixel-level domain adaptation that we term the GraspGAN. We show that, by using synthetic data and domain adaptation, we are able to reduce the number of real-world samples needed to achieve a given level of performance by up to 50 times, using only randomly generated simulated objects. We also show that by using only unlabeled real-world data and our GraspGAN methodology, we obtain real-world grasping performance without any real-world labels that is similar to that achieved with 939,777 labeled real-world samples.


Title: A Hybrid Dynamic-Regenerative Damping Scheme for Energy Regeneration in Variable Impedance Actuators
Key Words: actuators  damping  electromagnetic devices  energy conservation  regenerative braking  vibration control  VIA  variable damping module design  numerical simulations  energy consumption  energy efficiency  variable impedance actuators  dynamic-regenerative damping scheme  dynamic braking  regenerative braking effect  energy regeneration  dissipated energy  Damping  Resistance  Actuators  DC motors  Task analysis  Robots 
Abstract: Increasing research efforts have been made to improve the energy efficiency of variable impedance actuators (VIAs) through reduction of energy consumption. However, the harvesting of dissipated energy in such systems remains under-explored. This study proposes a novel variable damping module design enabling energy regeneration in VIAs by exploiting the regenerative braking effect of DC motors. The proposed damping module uses four switches to combine regenerative and dynamic braking, in a hybrid approach that enables energy regeneration without reduction in the range of damping achievable. Numerical simulations and a physical experiment are presented in which the proposed module shows an optimal trade-off between task-performance and energy efficiency.


Title: Displacement Amplifier Mechanism for Piezoelectric Actuators Design Using SIMP Topology Optimization Approach
Key Words: finite element analysis  optimisation  piezoelectric actuators  Rhombus mechanism  SIMP topology optimization method  displacement range  inherent crystalline properties piezoelectric actuators  SIMP topology optimization approach  piezoelectric actuators design  displacement amplifier mechanism  Optimization  Topology  Force  Piezoelectric actuators  Sensitivity  Mathematical model  piezoelectric actuators  optimal design  compliant structure  SIMP topology optimization 
Abstract: Due to their inherent crystalline properties piezoelectric actuators have a limited deformation. This intrinsic drawback deprives to exploit the potential of these actuators such as, high bandwidth and high resolution in applications that require large displacement range. To overcome this limitation, classical as well as systematic approaches were proposed to design amplification mechanisms. The classical approach leads to empirical mechanisms which are not trivial and needs much experience and intuition. In contrast, systematic approach uses topology optimization method which permits to automatically derive optimal designs that can satisfy specified performances and imposed constraints simultaneously, this with a reasonable time and cost. This paper proposes the design of a mechanism devoted to amplify the displacement of a piezoelectric actuators (PEA). Based on the SIMP topology optimization method, the approach permits to derive a design with a displacement amplification ratio of 4.5, which is higher than with the existing method of Rhombus mechanism. Both finite element (FE) simulation and experimental results confirm and demonstrate the efficiency of the approach.


Title: Information Based Mobile Sensor Planning for Source Term Estimation of a Non-Continuous Atmospheric Release
Key Words: air pollution  atmospheric chemistry  atmospheric techniques  Bayes methods  chemical sensors  disperse systems  hazardous materials  inverse problems  mobile sensor planning  Bayes' theorem  static sensors  single mobile sensor  chemical sensor  dispersion parameters  Gaussian puff dispersion model  meteorological information  inverse problem  hazardous material  noncontinuous atmospheric release  source term estimation  Robot sensing systems  Dispersion  Atmospheric modeling  Unmanned aerial vehicles  Position measurement  Wind speed  Mathematical model 
Abstract: Ahstract- This paper presents a method to estimate the original location and the mass of an instantaneous release of hazardous material into the atmosphere. It is formulated as an inverse problem, where concentration observations from a mobile sensor are fused with meteorological information and a Gaussian puff dispersion model to characterise the source. Bayes' theorem is used to estimate the parameters of the release taking into account the uncertainty that exists in the dispersion parameters and meteorological variables. An information based reward is used to guide an unmanned aerial vehicle equipped with a chemical sensor to the expected most informative measurement locations. Simulation results compare the performance between a single mobile sensor with various amounts of static sensors.


Title: Sampling-Based Motion Planning with μ-Calculus Specifications Without Steering
Key Words: boundary-value problems  feedback  formal verification  linear quadratic control  motion control  path planning  probability  sampling methods  temporal logic  sampling-based motion planning  temporal logic specifications  linear dynamics  two-point boundary value problem  asymptotically optimal planning algorithm SST  local deterministic μ-calculus model  motion planning algorithm  deterministic μ-calculus specifications  multiple Kripke structures  abstracted Kripke structure  state-space  linear-quadratic regulator feedback control policy  complex liveness specification  steering function  kinodynamic planning algorithm SST  LQR feedback control policy  Calculus  Planning  Model checking  Trajectory  Reactive power  Lattices 
Abstract: While using temporal logic specifications with motion planning has been heavily researched, the reliance on having an available steering function is impractical and often suited only to basic problems with linear dynamics. This is because a steering function is a solution to an optimal two-point boundary value problem (OBVP); to our knowledge, it is nearly impossible to find an analytic solution to such problems in many cases. Addressing this issue, we have developed a means of combining the asymptotically optimal and probabilistically complete kinodynamic planning algorithm SST* with a local deterministic μ-calculus model checking procedure to create a motion planning algorithm with deterministic μ-calculus specifications that does not rely on a steering function. The procedure involves combining only the most pertinent information from multiple Kripke structures in order to create one abstracted Kripke structure storing the best paths to all possible proposition regions of the state-space. A linear-quadratic regulator (LQR) feedback control policy is then used to track these best paths, effectively connecting the trajectories found from multiple Kripke structures. Simulations demonstrate that it is possible to satisfy a complex liveness specification for infinitely often reaching specified regions of state-space using only forward propagation.


Title: Generating Vibration Free Rest-to-Rest Trajectories for Configuration Dependent Dynamic Systems via 3-Segmented Input Shaping
Key Words: bang-bang control  path planning  position control  configuration dependent dynamics  vibration-free RTR trajectory generation  bang-coast-bang trajectory  system dynamics  piece wise shaping  trajectory segmentation strategy  3-Segmented Input Shaping  configuration dependent dynamic systems  free rest-to-rest trajectories  Trajectory  Vibrations  Acceleration  Motion segmentation  System dynamics  Numerical simulation 
Abstract: This paper presents a new method to generate vibration free rest-to-rest (RTR) trajectories for configuration dependent dynamic systems, such as robots, cranes or machine tools. The new method named 3-Segmented Input Shaping is based on a combination of the widely known Input Shaping method and a new trajectory segmentation strategy for piece wise shaping of the trajectory. The new segmentation strategy facilitates the capability of accounting for variations in system dynamics during motion by shaping acceleration and deceleration profiles with individual frequencies. In this paper the new segmentation strategy is used in combination with the bang-coast-bang (BCB) trajectory. The generated trajectories are described in closed form, hence requires no optimization and thereby provides strong computational performance. The new method is verified by numerical simulations and detailed analysis and shows great potential in vibration-free RTR trajectory generation for systems with configuration dependent dynamics.


Title: Legged Robot State-Estimation Through Combined Forward Kinematic and Preintegrated Contact Factors
Key Words: graph theory  legged locomotion  object tracking  optimisation  robot kinematics  robot vision  state estimation  robotic perception systems  robot state-estimation  Agility Robotics  Cassie-series robot  forward kinematic factor  factor graph framework  preintegrated contact factor  kinematic factors  legged robots  state-estimation technique  visual tracking  Robot sensing systems  Legged locomotion  Kinematics  Optimization  Foot  Cameras 
Abstract: State-of-the-art robotic perception systems have achieved sufficiently good performance using Inertial Measurement Units (IMUs), cameras, and nonlinear optimization techniques, that they are now being deployed as technologies. However, many of these methods rely significantly on vision and often fail when visual tracking is lost due to lighting or scarcity of features. This paper presents a state-estimation technique for legged robots that takes into account the robot's kinematic model as well as its contact with the environment. We introduce forward kinematic factors and preintegrated contact factors into a factor graph framework that can be incrementally solved in real-time. The forward kinematic factor relates the robot's base pose to a contact frame through noisy encoder measurements. The preintegrated contact factor provides odometry measurements of this contact frame while accounting for possible foot slippage. Together, the two developed factors constrain the graph optimization problem allowing the robot's trajectory to be estimated. The paper evaluates the method using simulated and real sensory IMU and kinematic data from experiments with a Cassie-series robot designed by Agility Robotics. These preliminary experiments show that using the proposed method in addition to IMU decreases drift and improves localization accuracy, suggesting that its use can enable successful recovery from a loss of visual tracking.


Title: Deep Haptic Model Predictive Control for Robot-Assisted Dressing
Key Words: assisted living  clothing  control engineering computing  end effectors  handicapped aids  haptic interfaces  human-robot interaction  learning (artificial intelligence)  optimal control  predictive control  service robots  physical human-robot interaction  people with disabilities  controller objective function  deep predictive model  prediction horizon  PR2 robot  physics-based simulation  dressing assistance  garment  deep recurrent model  nonrigid garments  physical implications  robot-assisted dressing  deep haptic model predictive control  Robot sensing systems  Haptic interfaces  End effectors  Clothing  Predictive models 
Abstract: Robot-assisted dressing offers an opportunity to benefit the lives of many people with disabilities, such as some older adults. However, robots currently lack common sense about the physical implications of their actions on people. The physical implications of dressing are complicated by non-rigid garments, which can result in a robot indirectly applying high forces to a person's body. We present a deep recurrent model that, when given a proposed action by the robot, predicts the forces a garment will apply to a person's body. We also show that a robot can provide better dressing assistance by using this model with model predictive control. The predictions made by our model only use haptic and kinematic observations from the robot's end effector, which are readily attainable. Collecting training data from real world physical human-robot interaction can be time consuming, costly, and put people at risk. Instead, we train our predictive model using data collected in an entirely self-supervised fashion from a physics-based simulation. We evaluated our approach with a PR2 robot that attempted to pull a hospital gown onto the arms of 10 human participants. With a 0.2s prediction horizon, our controller succeeded at high rates and lowered applied force while navigating the garment around a persons fist and elbow without getting caught. Shorter prediction horizons resulted in significantly reduced performance with the sleeve catching on the participants' fists and elbows, demonstrating the value of our model's predictions. These behaviors of mitigating catches emerged from our deep predictive model and the controller objective function, which primarily penalizes high forces.


Title: Human in the Loop of Robot Learning: EEG-Based Reward Signal for Target Identification and Reaching Task
Key Words: brain  control engineering computing  electroencephalography  human-robot interaction  intelligent robots  learning (artificial intelligence)  robot programming  target reaching task  assistive technologies  shared control  intelligent robotic device  electrophysiological measures  error detection  Error-related Potentials  semiautonomous system  online robot learning task  detected ErrP  robot learning loop  optimal policy learning  shared autonomy  reinforcement learning framework  Electroencephalography  Training  Graphical user interfaces  Microsoft Windows  Testing  Robot learning 
Abstract: Shared control and shared autonomy play an important role in assistive technologies, allowing the offloading of the cognitive burden required for control from the user to the intelligent robotic device. In this context, electrophysiological measures of error detection, directly measured from a person's brain activity as Error-related Potentials (ErrPs), can be exploited to provide passive adaptation of an external semi-autonomous system to the human. This concept was implemented in an online robot learning task, where user's evaluation of the robot's actions, in terms of detected ErrP, was exploited to update a reward function in a Reinforcement Learning (RL) framework. Results from both simulated and experimental studies show that the introduction of human evaluation in the robot learning loop allows for: (1) the acceleration of optimal policy learning in a target reaching task, (2) the introduction of a further degree of control in robot learning, namely identification of one among multiple targets, according to the user's will. Overall, presented results support the potential of human-robot co-adaptive and co-operative strategies to develop human-centered assistive technologies.


Title: Optimization Beyond the Convolution: Generalizing Spatial Relations with End-to-End Metric Learning
Key Words: convolution  distance learning  feedforward neural nets  gradient methods  learning (artificial intelligence)  mobile robots  optimisation  pose estimation  solid modelling  robots  arbitrary spatial relations  sizes  shapes  distance metric learning  3D point clouds  metric space  object poses  arbitrary target relation  domestic environments  convolution  gradient based optimization  neural network  geometric models  continuous spectrum  end to end metric learning  Measurement  Three-dimensional displays  Robots  Optimization  Transforms  Shape  Convolution 
Abstract: To operate intelligently in domestic environments, robots require the ability to understand arbitrary spatial relations between objects and to generalize them to objects of varying sizes and shapes. In this work, we present a novel end-to-end approach to generalize spatial relations based on distance metric learning. We train a neural network to transform 3D point clouds of objects to a metric space that captures the similarity of the depicted spatial relations, using only geometric models of the objects. Our approach employs gradient-based optimization to compute object poses in order to imitate an arbitrary target relation by reducing the distance to it under the learned metric. Our results based on simulated and real-world experiments show that the proposed method enables robots to generalize spatial relations to unknown objects over a continuous spectrum.


Title: Joint Long-Term Prediction of Human Motion Using a Planning-Based Social Force Approach
Key Words: collision avoidance  Markov processes  mobile robots  motion control  multi-agent systems  multi-robot systems  random processes  stochastic processes  motion trajectories  planning-based approach  dynamic objects  planning-based social force approach  joint long-term prediction  individual agent velocities  social forces  weighted random walk algorithm  stochastic motion policies  long-term predictions  multiple agents  joint motion  local interactions  long-term human motion prediction  dynamic environments  intelligent vehicles  mobile robots  Trajectory  Prediction algorithms  Force  Predictive models  Planning  Stochastic processes  Robots 
Abstract: The ability to perceive and predict future positions of dynamic objects is essential for mobile robots and intelligent vehicles in dynamic environments. In this paper, we present a novel planning-based approach for long-term human motion prediction that accounts for local interactions and can accurately predict joint motion of multiple agents. Long-term predictions are handled using an MDP formulation that computes a set of stochastic motion policies. To obtain distributions over future motion trajectories, we sample the policies with a weighted random walk algorithm in which each person is locally influenced by social forces from other nearby agents. Unlike related work, the algorithm is environment-aware, can account for individual agent velocities, requires no training phase and makes joint predictions for multiple agents. Experiments in simulation and with real data show that our method makes more accurate predictions than two state-of-the-art methods in terms of probabilistic and geometrical performance measures.


Title: Multi-Robot Coordination in Dynamic Environments Shared with Humans
Key Words: human-robot interaction  mobile robots  multi-robot systems  navigation  path planning  market-based framework  coordination mechanism  social costs  bid evaluations  realistic environment  human-aware navigation  human-agnostic planning  social constraints  multirobot coordination  dynamic environments  social human-populated environments  multirobot task allocation problem  static humans  moving humans  high-fidelity simulator  localization noise  static people  blocked passages  human-aware planning  human-agnostic navigation  robot experiments  MRTA metrics  Robot kinematics  Task analysis  Navigation  Planning  Resource management  Measurement 
Abstract: This work addresses multi-robot coordination in social human-populated environments using a market-based framework for solving the Multi-Robot Task Allocation (MRTA) problem. Humans are considered in the proposed coordination mechanism by means of accounting for social costs in bid evaluations and requesting collaboration in socially blocking situations. Initially, the effect of a realistic environment with varying number of static/moving humans on the behavior and performance of our method is studied through an extensive suite of experiments in a high-fidelity simulator. Results show that the total traveled distance and time are increased when humans are present in the environments. Localization noise is also increased particularly in the case of static people. In the second series of experiments, a number of problematic cases resulting in longer modified paths, blocked passages, and long waits have been investigated. A comparative study targeting human-agnostic navigation and planning, human-aware navigation and human-agnostic planning, and human-aware navigation and planning has been conducted. Both simulated and real robot experiments confirm the effectiveness of accounting for humans at both team and individual levels. This leads to respecting social constraints as well as achieving a better performance based on MRTA metrics.


Title: A Deep Learning Based Behavioral Approach to Indoor Autonomous Navigation
Key Words: collision avoidance  learning (artificial intelligence)  mobile robots  navigational behaviors  deep learning architectures  semantic abstraction  navigation tasks  navigational missions  behavioral approach  indoor autonomous navigation  semantically rich graph representation  indoor robotic navigation  semantic locations  Navigation  Semantics  Visualization  Simultaneous localization and mapping  Robustness  Measurement 
Abstract: We present a semantically rich graph representation for indoor robotic navigation. Our graph representation encodes: semantic locations such as offices or corridors as nodes, and navigational behaviors such as enter office or cross a corridor as edges. In particular, our navigational behaviors operate directly from visual inputs to produce motor controls and are implemented with deep learning architectures. This enables the robot to avoid explicit computation of its precise location or the geometry of the environment, and enables navigation at a higher level of semantic abstraction. We evaluate the effectiveness of our representation by simulating navigation tasks in a large number of virtual environments. Our results show that using a simple sets of perceptual and navigational behaviors, the proposed approach can successfully guide the way of the robot as it completes navigational missions such as going to a specific office. Furthermore, our implementation shows to be effective to control the selection and switching of behaviors.


Title: Footstep Planning in Rough Terrain for Bipedal Robots Using Curved Contact Patches
Key Words: humanoid robots  legged locomotion  off-road vehicles  path planning  robot vision  rough terrain  rough terrain stepping  WALK-MAN humanoid robot  flat foothold contact analysis  rough local terrain surfaces  curved patch modeling system  6DoF footstep sequences  black box walking controller  proper environment modeling  visual perception  foothold placements  exteroceptive perception  curved contact patches  bipedal robots  footstep planning  Planning  Three-dimensional displays  Rough surfaces  Surface roughness  Robot sensing systems  Navigation 
Abstract: Bipedal robots have gained a lot of locomotion capabilities the past few years, especially in the control level. Navigation over complex and unstructured environments using exteroceptive perception, is still an active research topic. In this paper, we present a footstep planning system to produce foothold placements, using visual perception and proper environment modeling, given a black box walking controller. In particular, we extend a state-of-the-art search-based planning approach (ARA*) that produces 6DoF footstep sequences in 3D space for flat uneven terrain, to also handle rough curved surfaces, e.g. rocks. This is achieved by integrating both a curved patch modeling system for rough local terrain surfaces and a flat foothold contact analysis based on visual range input data, into the existing planning framework. The system is experimentally validated using real-world point clouds, while rough terrain stepping demonstrations are presented on the WALK-MAN humanoid robot, in simulation.


Title: Safe Distributed Lane Change Maneuvers for Multiple Autonomous Vehicles Using Buffered Input Cells
Key Words: collision avoidance  computational geometry  decision making  feedback  mobile robots  position control  road safety  road vehicles  safe distributed lane change maneuvers  multiple autonomous vehicles  reciprocal collision avoidance method  autonomous cars  linear dynamics  buffered input cell  Voronoi cell  Voronoi diagrams  vehicles control input  control stack  freeway driving scenario  decision-making layer  trajectory planning layer  feedback controller  BIC method  human-driven car  Collision avoidance  Robots  Vehicle dynamics  Aerospace electronics  Traffic control  Autonomous vehicles  Planning 
Abstract: This paper introduces the Buffered Input Cell as a reciprocal collision avoidance method for multiple vehicles with high-order linear dynamics, extending recently proposed methods based on the Buffered Voronoi Cell [1] and generalized Voronoi diagrams [2]. We prove that if each vehicle's control input remains in its Buffered Input Cell at each time step, collisions will be avoided indefinitely. The method is fast, reactive, and only requires that each vehicle measures the relative position of neighboring vehicles. We incorporate this collision avoidance method as one layer of a complete lane change control stack for autonomous cars in a freeway driving scenario. The lane change control stack comprises a decision-making layer, a trajectory planning layer, a trajectory following feedback controller, and the Buffered Input Cell for collision avoidance. We show in simulations that collisions are avoided with multiple vehicles simultaneously changing lanes on a freeway. We also show in simulations that autonomous cars using the BIC method effectively avoid collisions with an aggressive human-driven car.


Title: Deep Predictive Models for Collision Risk Assessment in Autonomous Driving
Key Words: Bayes methods  collision avoidance  decision making  driver information systems  image colour analysis  learning (artificial intelligence)  recurrent neural nets  risk management  video streaming  Deep Predictive Models  collision risk assessment  autonomous driving  predictive approach  assisted driving  deep predictive model  video streams  RGB images  temporal information  multi-modal information  proprioceptive state  Bayesian convolutional LSTM  decision making  Predictive models  Accidents  Stochastic processes  Uncertainty  Bayes methods  Cameras  Tensile stress 
Abstract: In this paper, we investigate a predictive approach for collision risk assessment in autonomous and assisted driving. A deep predictive model is trained to anticipate imminent accidents from traditional video streams. In particular, the model learns to identify cues in RGB images that are predictive of hazardous upcoming situations. In contrast to previous work, our approach incorporates (a) temporal information during decision making, (b) multi-modal information about the environment, as well as the proprioceptive state and steering actions of the controlled vehicle, and (c) information about the uncertainty inherent to the task. To this end, we discuss Deep Predictive Models and present an implementation using a Bayesian Convolutional LSTM. Experiments in a simple simulation environment show that the approach can learn to predict impending accidents with reasonable accuracy, especially when multiple cameras are used as input sources.


Title: End-to-End Driving Via Conditional Imitation Learning
Key Words: collision avoidance  learning systems  mobile robots  road traffic control  driving policy functions  conditional imitation learning  sensorimotor coordination  vision-based driving  robotic truck  driving policies  deep networks  high-level navigational commands  urban driving  high-level command input  condition imitation  Robot sensing systems  Task analysis  Vehicles  Cameras  Roads  Navigation 
Abstract: Deep networks trained on demonstrations of human driving have learned to follow roads and avoid obstacles. However, driving policies trained via imitation learning cannot be controlled at test time. A vehicle trained end-to-end to imitate an expert cannot be guided to take a specific turn at an upcoming intersection. This limits the utility of such systems. We propose to condition imitation learning on high-level command input. At test time, the learned driving policy functions as a chauffeur that handles sensorimotor coordination but continues to respond to navigational commands. We evaluate different architectures for conditional imitation learning in vision-based driving. We conduct experiments in realistic three-dimensional simulations of urban driving and on a 1/5 scale robotic truck that is trained to drive in a residential area. Both systems drive based on visual input yet remain responsive to high-level navigational commands.


Title: Optimal Path Planning in Time-Varying Flows with Forecasting Uncertainties
Key Words: graph theory  marine control  Markov processes  optimisation  path planning  Markov decision process  uncertain flow model  ocean environment  time-varying flows  minimum energy paths  uncertain flow field  transition probability model  minimum expected cost path  graph search based method  minimum expected cost policy  marine environments  Path planning  Computational modeling  Oceans  Predictive models  Forecast uncertainty  Drag 
Abstract: Uncertainties in flow models have to be explicitly considered for effective path planning in marine environments. In this paper, we present two methods to compute minimum expected cost policies and paths over an uncertain flow model. The first method based on a Markov Decision Process computes a minimum expected cost policy while the second graph search based method, computes a minimum expected cost path. A transition probability model is developed to compute the probability of transition from one state to another under a given action. In addition, a method to compute the expected cost of a path when it is executed in an uncertain flow field is also presented. The two methods are used to compute minimum energy paths in an ocean environment and the results are analyzed in simulations.


Title: Topological Hotspot Identification for Informative Path Planning with a Marine Robot
Key Words: computational geometry  graph theory  greedy algorithms  image segmentation  marine control  mobile robots  path planning  robot vision  topological graph  greedy-coverage algorithm  informative path planning problem  topological hotspot identification  marine robot  topological map  biological hotspots  aquatic environment  Fast Marching-based Voronoi segmentation  scheduling problem  Path planning  Monitoring  Oceans  Robot sensing systems  Task analysis  Frequency modulation 
Abstract: In this work, we present a novel method for constructing a topological map of biological hotspots in an aquatic environment using a Fast Marching-based Voronoi segmentation. Using this topological map, we develop a closed form solution to the scheduling problem for any single path through the graph. Searching over the space of all paths allows us to compute a maximally informative path that traverses a subset of the hotspots, given some budget. Using a greedy-coverage algorithm we can then compute an informative path. We evaluate our method in a set of simulated trials, both with randomly generated environments and a real-world environment. In these trials, we show that our method produces a topological graph which more accurately captures features in the environment than standard thresholding techniques. Additionally, We show that our method can improve the performance of a greedy-coverage algorithm in the informative path planning problem by guiding it to different informative areas to help it escape from local maxima.


Title: Heterogeneous Multi-Robot System for Exploration and Strategic Water Sampling
Key Words: ecology  hydrological equipment  hydrological techniques  microorganisms  multi-robot systems  remotely operated vehicles  reservoirs  water quality  data-driven behavior  real geophysical data  MODIS measurements  water-sampling apparatus  water quality sensor  plankton-rich water samples  chlorophyll density  autonomous surface vehicles plan  water-sampling behavior  efficient measurement  fresh-water systems  measuring contamination levels  drinking water  physical sampling  strategic water sampling  heterogeneous multirobot system  water reservoir  explorer robot  water sampling apparatus  ASV  Pollution measurement  Geophysical measurements  Robot sensing systems  Real-time systems  Time measurement  Water pollution 
Abstract: Physical sampling of water for off-site analysis is necessary for many applications like monitoring the quality of drinking water in reservoirs, understanding marine ecosystems, and measuring contamination levels in fresh-water systems. In this paper, the focus is on algorithms for efficient measurement and sampling using a multi-robot, data-driven, water-sampling behavior, where autonomous surface vehicles plan and execute water sampling using the chlorophyll density as a cue for plankton-rich water samples. We use two Autonomous Surface Vehicles (ASVs), one equipped with a water quality sensor and the other equipped with a water-sampling apparatus. The ASV with the sensor acts as an explorer, measuring and building a spatial map of chlorophyll density in the given region of interest. The ASV equipped with the water sampling apparatus makes decisions in real time on where to sample the water based on the suggestions made by the explorer robot. We evaluate the system in the context of measuring chlorophyll distributions. We do this both in simulation based on real geophysical data from MODIS measurements, and on real robots in a water reservoir. We demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed approach in several ways including in terms of mean error in the interpolated data as a function of distance traveled.


Title: Extended Kalman Filter-Based 3D Active-Alignment Control for LED Communication
Key Words: Kalman filters  light emitting diodes  mobile robots  optical communication  extended Kalman filter  proportional-integral controller  receiver-transmitter line  active alignment control system  transmitting device  active alignment system  mobile robots  Line-Of-Sight  underwater communication  optical communication  LED communication  active-alignment control  Receivers  Transmitters  Light emitting diodes  Robots  Three-dimensional displays  Estimation  Optical fiber communication 
Abstract: LED-based optical communication is emerging as a low-cost, high-data-rate alternative to the traditional acoustics mode of underwater communication. However, it is challenging to establish and maintain Line-Of-Sight (LOS) between the receiver and the transmitter, especially when such systems are used by mobile robots. Hence, there is a need for an active alignment system that enables the receiver to constantly align itself towards the direction of the transmitting device. In this paper, we propose and implement an active alignment control system capable of tracking a transmitting source moving in the three-dimensional (3D) space. An extended Kalman filter is used to estimate the components of the angle between the receiver orientation and the receiver-transmitter line. Using the estimate, a proportional-integral (PI) controller is implemented to adjust the receiver orientation. The algorithm uses one measurement of the light intensity from a single photo-diode, where successive measurements are obtained via a circular scanning technique. The amplitude of the scanning is adapted to the alignment performance, to achieve a sound trade-off between estimation accuracy, signal strength, and energy consumption. Simulation and experimental results are presented to illustrate the effectiveness of the proposed approach.


Title: Preliminary Evaluation of Cooperative Navigation of Underwater Vehicles without a DVL Utilizing a Dynamic Process Model
Key Words: attitude control  autonomous underwater vehicles  Global Positioning System  marine control  mobile robots  path planning  robot dynamics  robot kinematics  sensors  velocity measurement  preliminary evaluation  dynamic process model  fully dynamic vehicle process model  acoustic modem  surface vehicle  at-sea experimental trials  JHU Iver3 autonomous underwater vehicle  underwater vehicle navigation  DVL acoustic bottom-lock range  kinematic process model  dynamical process model  submerged vehicle  underwater communication  velocity measurements  attitude sensor  Acoustics  Underwater vehicles  Kinematics  Global Positioning System  Sensors 
Abstract: This paper reports a preliminary study for use of a fully dynamic vehicle process model in combined underwater communication and navigation (cooperative navigation) of underwater vehicles equipped with an acoustic modem, attitude, and depth sensors, but lacking a Doppler velocity log (DVL), and a surface vehicle equipped with an acoustic modem and GPS. We report both simulation and at-sea experimental trials with the JHU Iver3 autonomous underwater vehicle (AUV). The case of underwater vehicle navigation without a DVL is of interest in several use-cases including (a) small and low-cost underwater vehicles for which DVLs may be impractical or infeasible due to their size and cost and (b) for missions in which the vehicle's altitude above the sea floor (or depth beneath overhead ice) exceeds the DVL acoustic bottom-lock range. To the best of our knowledge, all previous studies on cooperative navigation have reported use of a kinematic process model, which works well in the presence of frequent, high-accuracy velocity measurements, as is the case when the vehicle is equipped with a DVL. This preliminary study suggests that the dynamical process model may offer a significant advantage over the purely kinematic model in the absence of frequent, high-accuracy velocity measurements, as is the case when the submerged vehicle is not equipped with a DVL.


Title: Online System Identification and Calibration of Dynamic Models for Autonomous Ground Vehicles
Key Words: calibration  mobile robots  vehicles  wheels  high-fidelity dynamical model  constant time algorithm  autonomous ground vehicles  dynamic models  online system identification  scale four wheel drive vehicle  estimated parameter  model parameters  informative motion segments  robotic platform  Calibration  Vehicle dynamics  Motion segmentation  Dynamics  Wheels  Friction 
Abstract: This paper is concerned with system identification and the calibration of parameters of dynamic models used in different robotic platforms. A constant time algorithm has been developed in order to automatically calibrate the parameters of a high-fidelity dynamical model for a robotic platform. The presented method is capable of choosing informative motion segments in order to calibrate model parameters in constant time while also calculating a confidence level on each estimated parameter. Simulations and experiments with a ⅛ th scale four wheel drive vehicle are performed to calibrate two of the parameters of test vehicle which demonstrate the accuracy and efficiency of the approach.


Title: On Geometric Models and Their Accuracy for Extrinsic Sensor Calibration
Key Words: calibration  geometry  numerical analysis  sensors  extrinsic sensor calibration methods  robotics  numerical simulation  abstract geometric model  Calibration  Cameras  Estimation  Task analysis  Simultaneous localization and mapping 
Abstract: Extrinsic sensor calibration is an important task in robotics. There are various ways to perform the calibration task, but it often remains unclear which methods are better than the others. In this paper, we provide a systematic study about the calibration accuracy of three types of calibration methods, each represented by an abstract geometric model based on the sensor configuration and the calibration setup. We discuss the advantages and disadvantages of each model and perform a rigorous study on their noise sensitivity from a geometric perspective. As a result, we can reveal and quantify the relative calibration accuracies of the three models, thus answering the question of “which model is better and why?”. Beside our analytical analysis, we also provide numerical simulation experiments that validate our findings.


Title: Efficient Mobile Robot Exploration with Gaussian Markov Random Fields in 3D Environments
Key Words: computer graphics  Gaussian processes  indoor environment  Markov processes  mobile robots  sampling methods  efficient computation algorithm  GMRF model hyperparameters  information gain  efficient mobile robot exploration  autonomous exploration  unknown indoor environments  mutual information  MI  informative sensing location  sampling method  random sensing patches  sensing patch  informative locations  training sample patches  established GMRF model  Gaussian Markov random fields  Gaussian process model  Robot sensing systems  Computational modeling  Mathematical model  Training  Mutual information 
Abstract: In this paper, we study the problem of autonomous exploration in unknown indoor environments using mobile robot. We use mutual information (MI) to evaluate the information the robot would get at a certain location. In order to get the most informative sensing location, we first propose a sampling method that can get random sensing patches in free space. Each sensing patch is extended to informative locations to collect information with true values. Then we use Gaussian Markov Random Fields (GMRF) to model the distribution of MI in environment. Compared with the traditional methods that employ Gaussian Process (GP) model, GMRF is more efficient. MI of every sensing location can be estimated using the training sample patches and the established GMRF model. We utilize an efficient computation algorithm to estimate the GMRF model hyperparameters so as to speed up the computation. Besides the information gain of the candidates regions, the path cost is also considered in this work. We propose a utility function that can balance the path cost and the information gain the robot would collect. We tested our algorithm in both simulated and real experiment. The experiment results demonstrate that our proposed method can explore the environment efficiently with relatively shorter path length.


Title: Distributed Intermittent Communication Control of Mobile Robot Networks Under Time-Critical Dynamic Tasks
Key Words: control engineering computing  distributed control  mobile robots  multi-robot systems  protocols  scheduling  time-critical dynamic tasks  offline schedules  mobile robot networks  distributed intermittent communication control  task accomplishment  task planning  communication events  distributed control framework  communication constraints  intermittent communication protocols  connected networks  reliable networks  robot communication capabilities  Task analysis  Robot sensing systems  Time factors  Schedules  Communication networks 
Abstract: In this paper, we develop a distributed intermittent communication framework for teams of mobile robots that are responsible for accomplishing time-critical dynamic tasks and sharing the collected information with all other robots and possibly also with a user. Specifically, we consider situations where the robot communication capabilities are not sufficient to maintain reliable and connected networks while the robots move to accomplish their tasks. In this case, intermittent communication protocols are necessary that allow the robots to temporarily disconnect from the network in order to accomplish their tasks free of communication constraints. We assume that the robots can only communicate with each other when they meet at common locations in space. Our proposed distributed control framework determines offline schedules of communication events and integrates them online with task planning. The resulting paths ensure task accomplishment and exchange of information among robots infinitely often at locations that minimize a user-specified metric. Simulation results corroborate the proposed distributed control framework.


Title: Coverage Control for Wire-Traversing Robots
Key Words: gradient methods  minimisation  mobile robots  motion control  path planning  continuous constrained coverage control problem  mobile robots  COW map  Continuous Onto Wires map  constrained locational cost minimization  final projection step  Lloyd descent algorithm  planar environment  continuous motion  one-dimensional manifolds  two-dimensional motion  wire-traversing robots  Wires  Minimization  Robot sensing systems  Optimization  Motion control  Power transmission lines 
Abstract: In this paper we consider the coverage control problem for a team of wire-traversing robots. The two-dimensional motion of robots moving in a planar environment has to be projected to one-dimensional manifolds representing the wires. Starting from Lloyd's descent algorithm for coverage control, a solution that generates continuous motion of the robots on the wires is proposed. This is realized by means of a Continuous Onto Wires (COW) map: the robots' workspace is mapped onto the wires on which the motion of the robots is constrained to be. A final projection step is introduced to ensure that the configuration of the robots on the wires is a local minimizer of the constrained locational cost. An algorithm for the continuous constrained coverage control problem is proposed and it is tested both in simulation and on a team of mobile robots.


Title: Shaping in Practice: Training Wheels to Learn Fast Hopping Directly in Hardware
Key Words: control engineering computing  learning (artificial intelligence)  legged locomotion  robust control  temporary modifications  physical hardware  robot leg  reward landscape  fast hopping  robot controllers  engineering effort  potentially unstable parameters  training wheels  video synopsis  boom learning  robustness  Legged locomotion  Training  Wheels  Hardware  Hip 
Abstract: Learning instead of designing robot controllers can greatly reduce engineering effort required, while also emphasizing robustness. Despite considerable progress in simulation, applying learning directly in hardware is still challenging, in part due to the necessity to explore potentially unstable parameters. We explore the concept of shaping the reward landscape with training wheels; temporary modifications of the physical hardware that facilitate learning. We demonstrate the concept with a robot leg mounted on a boom learning to hop fast. This proof of concept embodies typical challenges such as instability and contact, while being simple enough to empirically map out and visualize the reward landscape. Based on our results we propose three criteria for designing effective training wheels for learning in robotics. A video synopsis can be found at https://youtu.be/6iH5E3LrYh8.


Title: Data-driven Construction of Symbolic Process Models for Reinforcement Learning
Key Words: genetic algorithms  Internet  learning (artificial intelligence)  mobile robots  pendulums  time-varying systems  time varying dynamics  controlling systems  data driven construction  online  single node genetic programming  SNGP  pendulum swing up problem  training data  accurate models  real-time experiments  simulated mobile robot  realtime robot control  analytic equations  parsimonious models  symbolic regression  acceptable policy  RL  reinforcement learning  symbolic process models  Mathematical model  Data models  Learning (artificial intelligence)  Computational modeling  Mobile robots  Genetic programming  Model learning for control  AI-based methods  symbolic regression  reinforcement learning  optimal control 
Abstract: Reinforcement learning (RL) is a suitable approach for controlling systems with unknown or time-varying dynamics. RL in principle does not require a model of the system, but before it learns an acceptable policy, it needs many unsuccessful trials, which real robots usually cannot withstand. It is well known that RL can be sped up and made safer by using models learned online. In this paper, we propose to use symbolic regression to construct compact, parsimonious models described by analytic equations, which are suitable for realtime robot control. Single node genetic programming (SNGP) is employed as a tool to automatically search for equations fitting the available data. We demonstrate the approach on two benchmark examples: a simulated mobile robot and the pendulum swing-up problem; the latter both in simulations and real-time experiments. The results show that through this approach we can find accurate models even for small batches of training data. Based on the symbolic model found, RL can control the system well.


Title: PRM-RL: Long-range Robotic Navigation Tasks by Combining Reinforcement Learning and Sampling-Based Planning
Key Words: learning (artificial intelligence)  mobile robots  navigation  neural nets  path planning  probability  robot dynamics  robot vision  sampling methods  sampling based planner  hierarchical method  sampling based path planning  large scale topology  probabilistic roadmaps  feature based deep neural net policies  continuous state  action spaces  simulation  office environments  aerial cargo delivery  urban environments  load displacement constraints  trajectories  noisy sensor conditions  flights  training  PRM RL  long range robotic navigation tasks  point to point navigation policies  end to end differential drive indoor navigation  nontrivial robot dynamics  robot configurations  task constraints  capture robot dynamics  RL agent  reinforcement learning  Task analysis  Robot sensing systems  Indoor navigation  Aerospace electronics  Learning (artificial intelligence) 
Abstract: We present PRM-RL, a hierarchical method for long-range navigation task completion that combines sampling-based path planning with reinforcement learning (RL). The RL agents learn short-range, point-to-point navigation policies that capture robot dynamics and task constraints without knowledge of the large-scale topology. Next, the sampling-based planners provide roadmaps which connect robot configurations that can be successfully navigated by the RL agent. The same RL agents are used to control the robot under the direction of the planning, enabling long-range navigation. We use the Probabilistic Roadmaps (PRMs) for the sampling-based planner. The RL agents are constructed using feature-based and deep neural net policies in continuous state and action spaces. We evaluate PRM-RL, both in simulation and on-robot, on two navigation tasks with non-trivial robot dynamics: end-to-end differential drive indoor navigation in office environments, and aerial cargo delivery in urban environments with load displacement constraints. Our results show improvement in task completion over both RL agents on their own and traditional sampling-based planners. In the indoor navigation task, PRM-RL successfully completes up to 215 m long trajectories under noisy sensor conditions, and the aerial cargo delivery completes flights over 1000 m without violating the task constraints in an environment 63 million times larger than used in training.


Title: Using Parameterized Black-Box Priors to Scale Up Model-Based Policy Search for Robotics
Key Words: control engineering computing  learning (artificial intelligence)  legged locomotion  optimisation  search problems  parameterized black-box priors  robotics  data-efficient algorithms  reinforcement learning  dynamical model  black-box optimization algorithm  model-based policy search approaches  model learning procedure  high-dimensional systems  physical hexapod robot  Black-DROPS algorithm  Robots  Data models  Mathematical model  Computational modeling  Heuristic algorithms  Analytical models  Task analysis 
Abstract: The most data-efficient algorithms for reinforcement learning in robotics are model-based policy search algorithms, which alternate between learning a dynamical model of the robot and optimizing a policy to maximize the expected return given the model and its uncertainties. Among the few proposed approaches, the recently introduced Black-DROPS algorithm exploits a black-box optimization algorithm to achieve both high data-efficiency and good computation times when several cores are used; nevertheless, like all model-based policy search approaches, Black-DROPS does not scale to high dimensional state/action spaces. In this paper, we introduce a new model learning procedure in Black-DROPS that leverages parameterized black-box priors to (1) scale up to high-dimensional systems, and (2) be robust to large inaccuracies of the prior information. We demonstrate the effectiveness of our approach with the “pendubot” swing-up task in simulation and with a physical hexapod robot (48D state space, 18D action space) that has to walk forward as fast as possible. The results show that our new algorithm is more data-efficient than previous model-based policy search algorithms (with and without priors) and that it can allow a physical 6-legged robot to learn new gaits in only 16 to 30 seconds of interaction time.


Title: Self-Supervised Deep Reinforcement Learning with Generalized Computation Graphs for Robot Navigation
Key Words: learning (artificial intelligence)  mobile robots  path planning  robot vision  double Q-learning  self-supervised deep reinforcement learning  self-supervised training  model-based methods  value-based model-free methods  learning-based methods  planning method  internal map  robot navigation  generalized computation graph  Computational modeling  Navigation  Learning (artificial intelligence)  Robots  Task analysis  Prediction algorithms  Planning 
Abstract: Enabling robots to autonomously navigate complex environments is essential for real-world deployment. Prior methods approach this problem by having the robot maintain an internal map of the world, and then use a localization and planning method to navigate through the internal map. However, these approaches often include a variety of assumptions, are computationally intensive, and do not learn from failures. In contrast, learning-based methods improve as the robot acts in the environment, but are difficult to deploy in the real-world due to their high sample complexity. To address the need to learn complex policies with few samples, we propose a generalized computation graph that subsumes value-based model-free methods and model-based methods, with specific instantiations interpolating between model-free and model-based. We then instantiate this graph to form a navigation model that learns from raw images and is sample efficient. Our simulated car experiments explore the design decisions of our navigation model, and show our approach outperforms single-step and N-step double Q-learning. We also evaluate our approach on a real-world RC car and show it can learn to navigate through a complex indoor environment with a few hours of fully autonomous, self-supervised training. Videos of the experiments and code can be found at github.com/gkahn13/gcg.


Title: Efficient Active SLAM Based on Submap Joining, Graph Topology and Convex Optimization
Key Words: computational complexity  convex programming  least squares approximations  minimisation  mobile robots  path planning  predictive control  quadratic programming  robot vision  SLAM (robots)  graph topology  active SLAM problem  robot trajectory  area coverage task  model predictive control framework  uncertainty minimization MPC problem  graphical structure  2D feature-based SLAM  variable substitutions  convex optimization method  MPC framework  sequential quadratic programming method  linear SLAM  submap joining approach  planning  simultaneous localization and mapping  nonconvex constrained least-squares problem  Optimized production technology  Simultaneous localization and mapping  Uncertainty  Task analysis  Robot kinematics 
Abstract: The active SLAM problem considered in this paper aims to plan a robot trajectory for simultaneous localization and mapping (SLAM) as well as for an area coverage task with robot pose uncertainty. Based on a model predictive control (MPC) framework, these two problems are solved respectively by different methods. For the uncertainty minimization MPC problem, based on the graphical structure of the 2D feature-based SLAM, a non-convex constrained least-squares problem is presented to approximate the original problem. Then, using variable substitutions, it is further transformed into a convex problem, and then solved by a convex optimization method. For the coverage task considering robot pose uncertainty, it is formulated and solved by the MPC framework and the sequential quadratic programming (SQP) method. In the whole process, considering the computation complexity, we use linear SLAM, which is a submap joining approach, to reduce the time for planning and estimation. Finally, various simulations are presented to validate the effectiveness of the proposed approach.


Title: Differential Flatness Transformations for Aggressive Quadrotor Flight
Key Words: helicopters  mobile robots  stability  trajectory control  flight envelope  hierarchical control  quadrotor flight  differential flatness transformation  trajectory control  stability issues  Trajectory  Attitude control  Standards  Acceleration  Aerospace electronics  Australia  Robustness 
Abstract: Aggressive maneuvering amongst obstacles could enable advanced capabilities for quadrotors in applications such as search and rescue, surveillance, inspection, and situations where rapid flight is required in cluttered environments. Previous works have treated quadrotors as differentially flat systems, and this property has been exploited widely to design simple algorithms that generate dynamically feasible trajectories and to enable hierarchical control. The differentially flat property allows the full state of the quadrotor to be extracted from the reduced dimensional space of x, y, z, yaw and their derivatives. This differential flatness transformation has a number of singularities, however, as well as stability issues when controlling near these singularities. Many methods have been described in the literature to address these; however, they all have limitations when exploring the full flight envelope of a quadrotor, including roll or pitch angles past 90°, and during inverted flight. In this paper, we review these existing methods and then introduce our method, which combines multiple methods to provide a highly-robust differential flatness transformation that addresses most of these issues. Our approach is demonstrated enabling highly-aggressive quadrotor flight in both simulations and real-world experiments.


Title: Trajectory-Optimized Sensing for Active Search of Tissue Abnormalities in Robotic Surgery
Key Words: end effectors  Gaussian processes  knowledge acquisition  learning (artificial intelligence)  medical robotics  mobile robots  position control  robot kinematics  surgery  trajectory optimisation (aerospace)  tumours  uncertain systems  tumors  Gaussian processes  stiffness distribution  palpation path  acquisition function  active learning algorithm  incorporate uncertainties  robot position  sensor measurements  robot-kinematics  trajectory-optimized sensing  tissue abnormalities  da Vinci research kit  insertable robotic effector platform  robotic surgery  6-DoF industrial arm  dVRK  IREP  Trajectory  Robot sensing systems  Optimization  Uncertainty  Bayes methods  Tumors 
Abstract: In this work, we develop an approach for guiding robots to automatically localize and find the shapes of tumors and other stiff inclusions present in the anatomy. Our approach uses Gaussian processes to model the stiffness distribution and active learning to direct the palpation path of the robot. The palpation paths are chosen such that they maximize an acquisition function provided by an active learning algorithm. Our approach provides the flexibility to avoid obstacles in the robot's path, incorporate uncertainties in robot position and sensor measurements, include prior information about location of stiff inclusions while respecting the robot-kinematics. To the best of our knowledge this is the first work in literature that considers all the above conditions while localizing tumors. The proposed framework is evaluated via simulation and experimentation on three different robot platforms: 6-DoF industrial arm, da Vinci Research Kit (dVRK), and the Insertable Robotic Effector Platform (IREP). Results show that our approach can accurately estimate the locations and boundaries of the stiff inclusions while reducing exploration time.


Title: Active Constraints Using Vector Field Inequalities for Surgical Robots
Key Words: brain  collision avoidance  manipulators  medical robotics  neurophysiology  surgery  vectors  deep brain neurosurgery  tremor-free procedures  robotic assistance  surgical robots  manipulator-boundary collisions  vector field inequality  active constraints  surgical tool tips  endonasal surgery  Quaternions  Surgery  Tools  Task analysis  Kinematics  Manipulators 
Abstract: Robotic assistance allows surgeons to perform dexterous and tremor-free procedures, but is still underrepresented in deep brain neurosurgery and endonasal surgery where the workspace is constrained. In these conditions, the vision of surgeons is restricted to areas near the surgical tool tips, which increases the risk of unexpected collisions between the shafts of the instruments and their surroundings, in particular in areas outside the surgical field-of-view. Active constraints can be used to prevent the tools from entering restricted zones and thus avoid collisions. In this paper, a vector field inequality is proposed that guarantees that tools do not enter restricted zones. Moreover, in contrast with early techniques, the proposed method limits the tool approach velocity in the direction of the forbidden zone boundary, guaranteeing a smooth behavior and that tangential velocities will not be disturbed. The proposed method is evaluated in simulations featuring two eight degrees-of-freedom manipulators that were custom-designed for deep neurosurgery. The results show that both manipulator-manipulator and manipulator-boundary collisions can be avoided using the vector field inequalities.


Title: Robust, Compliant Assembly via Optimal Belief Space Planning
Key Words: assembling  CAD  friction  geometry  mobile robots  optimal control  path planning  planning (artificial intelligence)  probability  robot dynamics  uncertain systems  compliant assembly  optimal belief space planning  automated manufacturing  robots  nonlinear contact-dynamics  model parameters  belief space planning problem  compliant system  asymptotically optimal belief space planner  kinodynamic motion planner  asymptotic optimality  multiple assembly tasks  CAD models  state spaces  object poses  geometry  friction  uncertainty  impedance-control  nondeterministic domains  probabilistic completeness  Planning  Robots  Trajectory  Uncertainty  Task analysis  Aerospace electronics  Dynamics 
Abstract: In automated manufacturing, robots must reliably assemble parts of various geometries and low tolerances. Ideally, they plan the required motions autonomously. This poses a substantial challenge due to high-dimensional state spaces and non-linear contact-dynamics. Furthermore, object poses and model parameters, such as friction, are not exactly known and a source of uncertainty. The method proposed in this paper models the task of parts assembly as a belief space planning problem over an underlying impedance-controlled, compliant system. To solve this planning problem we introduce an asymptotically optimal belief space planner by extending an optimal, randomized, kinodynamic motion planner to nondeterministic domains. Under an expansiveness assumption we establish probabilistic completeness and asymptotic optimality. We validate our approach in thorough, simulated and realworld experiments of multiple assembly tasks. The experiments demonstrate our planner's ability to reliably assemble objects, solely based on CAD models as input.


Title: Bio-Inspired Tensegrity Flexural Joints
Key Words: biomechanics  manipulator kinematics  motion control  tensegrity flexural manipulator  OpenSim simulation environment  tension analysis  human leg behavior  tensegrity manipulator  revolute joint  robotics literature model  bio-inspired tensegrity flexural joints  Knee  Legged locomotion  Joints  Biological system modeling  Hip  Muscles 
Abstract: Most robotics literature model the human's knee and hip as a revolute joint with limited range of rotation. Although somehow close to reality, this approach neglects a critical aspect of these joints, which is their internal flexibility. This paper presents a prototype tensegrity flexural manipulator whose kinematic behavior is inspired by human leg's gait. This prototype, which considers a hybrid (flexible-rigid) structure of the knee and hip would be able to better approximate real behavior and hopefully lead to a better design of artificial (prosthetic) knees and hips. The behavior of the proposed tensegrity manipulator was firstly predicted using OpenSim simulation environment. The paper reports the comparisons between the simulations, physical prototypes and human leg behavior for a variety of ranges of motions and tension analysis.


Title: Grasp Quality Evaluation with Whole Arm Kinematic Noise Propagation
Key Words: grippers  manipulator kinematics  path planning  probability  robust control  arm configurations  force closure region  kinematic robot structure  arm kinematic noise propagation  grasp quality evaluation  local robustness  arm configuration  grasp quality metric  redundant robot  Measurement  Force  Kinematics  Manipulators  Ellipsoids  Random variables 
Abstract: In this paper we propose a new approach to evaluate grasps that accounts for both the kinematic structure of the robot and the noise at its joints. Our starting observation is that with a redundant robot the same grasp can be implemented with different arm configurations, and these may display significant differences in terms of robustness to disturbances. Consequently, the grasp quality metric is seen as a random variable depending on the arm configuration. Starting from a first order approximation for the error, we introduce the high probability force closure region as a tool to evaluate the local robustness of an arm configuration, and we then introduce a new metric Qarm to rank different configurations according to the robustness to noise. By combining this method in an offline/online framework, we demonstrate through large scale simulations that this approach successfully captures aspects that were neglected in former literature regarding grasp evaluation, and can successfully be integrated into future grasp planners.


Title: Accelerated Testing and Evaluation of Autonomous Vehicles via Imitation Learning
Key Words: collision avoidance  learning (artificial intelligence)  life testing  mobile robots  neurocontrollers  regression analysis  autonomous vehicle  imitation learning  surrogate agents  test scenario generation  performance modes  deep neural networks  imitator surrogates  mission performance  simulation-based testing  on-line imitation  complex mission  target vehicle  behavioral modes  dataset aggregation  collision avoidance  Testing  Training  Autonomous vehicles  Trajectory  Adaptation models  History 
Abstract: In this paper, we investigate the use of surrogate agents to accelerate test scenario generation for autonomous vehicles. Our goal is to train the surrogate to replicate the true performance modes of the system. We create these surrogates by utilizing imitation learning with deep neural networks. By using imitator surrogates in place of the true agent, we are capable of predicting mission performance more quickly, gaining greater throughput for simulation-based testing. We demonstrate that using on-line imitation learning with Dataset Aggregation (DAgger) can not only correctly encode a policy that executes a complex mission, but can also encode multiple different behavioral modes. To improve performance for the target vehicle and mission, we manipulate the training set during each iteration to remove samples which do not contribute to the final policy. We call this approach Quantile-DAgger (Q-DAgger) and demonstrate its ability to replicate the behaviors of an autonomous vehicle in a collision avoidance scenario.


Title: Feature-Based Transfer Learning for Robotic Push Manipulation
Key Words: CAD  learning (artificial intelligence)  manipulators  contact models  motion models  point cloud object model  CAD model  contact-based predictors  robotic push manipulation  feature-based transfer learning  Robots  Three-dimensional displays  Predictive models  Solid modeling  Kernel  Probability density function  Training 
Abstract: This paper presents a data-efficient approach to learning transferable forward models for robotic push manipulation. Our approach extends our previous work on contact-based predictors by leveraging information on the pushed object's local surface features. We test the hypothesis that, by conditioning predictions on local surface features, we can achieve generalisation across objects of different shapes. In doing so, we do not require a CAD model of the object but rather rely on a point cloud object model (PCOM). Our approach involves learning motion models that are specific to contact models. Contact models encode the contacts seen during training time and allow generating similar contacts at prediction time. Predicting on familiar ground reduces the motion models' sample complexity while using local contact information for prediction increases their transferability. In extensive experiments in simulation, our approach is capable of transfer learning for various test objects, outperforming a baseline predictor. We support those results with a proof of concept on a real robot.


Title: Synthetically Trained Neural Networks for Learning Human-Readable Plans from Real-World Demonstrations
Key Words: image colour analysis  learning (artificial intelligence)  neural nets  object detection  robots  convolutional pose machines  human-readable plans learning  domain randomization  Baxter robot  image space  synthetic images  perception network  program execution  program generation  human-readable program  synthetically trained neural networks  world space  Task analysis  Training  Neural networks  Robot sensing systems  Robustness  Stacking 
Abstract: We present a system to infer and execute a human-readable program from a real-world demonstration. The system consists of a series of neural networks to perform perception, program generation, and program execution. Leveraging convolutional pose machines, the perception network reliably detects the bounding cuboids of objects in real images even when severely occluded, after training only on synthetic images using domain randomization. To increase the applicability of the perception network to new scenarios, the network is formulated to predict in image space rather than in world space. Additional networks detect relationships between objects, generate plans, and determine actions to reproduce a real-world demonstration. The networks are trained entirely in simulation, and the system is tested in the real world on the pick-and-place problem of stacking colored cubes using a Baxter robot.


Title: Generalized Task-Parameterized Skill Learning
Key Words: Gaussian processes  humanoid robots  human-robot interaction  learning (artificial intelligence)  manipulators  mixture models  motion control  robot programming  generalized task-parameterized skill learning  human skills  task-parameterized Gaussian mixture model  TP-GMM  human-robot collaboration  dual-arm manipulation  learning framework  task parameters  robot joint limits  task-parameterized learning  learned skills  real robotic systems  task constraints  learning perspective  Programming by demonstration  Task analysis  Trajectory  Robot kinematics  Optimization  Feature extraction  Robot sensing systems 
Abstract: Programming by demonstration has recently gained much attention due to its user-friendly and natural way to transfer human skills to robots. In order to facilitate the learning of multiple demonstrations and meanwhile generalize to new situations, a task-parameterized Gaussian mixture model (TP-GMM) has been recently developed. This model has achieved reliable performance in areas such as human-robot collaboration and dual-arm manipulation. However, the crucial task frames and associated parameters in this learning framework are often set by the human teacher, which renders three problems that have not been addressed yet: (i) task frames are treated equally, without considering their individual importance, (ii) task parameters are defined without taking into account additional task constraints, such as robot joint limits and motion smoothness, and (iii) a fixed number of task frames are pre-defined regardless of whether some of them may be redundant or even irrelevant for the task at hand. In this paper, we generalize the task-parameterized learning by addressing the aforementioned problems. Moreover, we provide a novel learning perspective which allows the robot to refine and adapt previously learned skills in a low dimensional space. Several examples are studied in both simulated and real robotic systems, showing the applicability of our approach.


Title: Sensor-Based Reactive Symbolic Planning in Partially Known Environments
Key Words: collision avoidance  mobile robots  sensors  differential drive robot  LIDAR sensor  passive objects  deliberative planner  symbolic commands  obstacle avoidance  reactive planner  sensor-based reactive symbolic planning  nonconvex environments  convex obstacles  high-level commands  Robot sensing systems  Planning  Task analysis  Grippers  Laser radar  Collision avoidance 
Abstract: This paper considers the problem of completing assemblies of passive objects in nonconvex environments, cluttered with convex obstacles of unknown position, shape and size that satisfy a specific separation assumption. A differential drive robot equipped with a gripper and a LIDAR sensor, capable of perceiving its environment only locally, is used to position the passive objects in a desired configuration. The method combines the virtues of a deliberative planner generating high-level, symbolic commands, with the formal guarantees of convergence and obstacle avoidance of a reactive planner that requires little onboard computation and is used online. The validity of the proposed method is verified both with formal proofs and numerical simulations.


Title: Navigating Congested Environments with Risk Level Sets
Key Words: collision avoidance  mobile robots  multi-agent systems  road vehicles  risk level set  congested environment navigation  cluttered environment  congestion cost  occupancy risk  cost function  planning space  agent planning  autonomous vehicle driving  risk threshold  conservative behavior  aggressive behavior  Planning  Level set  Navigation  Vehicle dynamics  Autonomous vehicles  Collision avoidance  Cost function 
Abstract: In this paper, we address the problem of navigating in a cluttered environment by introducing a congestion cost that maps the density and motion of objects to an occupancy risk. We propose that an agent can choose a “risk level set” from this cost function and construct a planning space from this set. In choosing different levels of risk, the agent adjusts its interactions with the other agents. From the assumption that agents are self-preserving, we show that any agent planning within their risk level set will avoid collisions with other agents. We then present an application of planning with risk level sets in the framework of an autonomous vehicle driving along a highway. Using the risk level sets, the agent can determine safe zones when planning a sequence of lane changes. Through simulations in Matlab, we demonstrate how the choice of risk threshold manifests as aggressive or conservative behavior.


Title: Algorithms for Routing of Unmanned Aerial Vehicles with Mobile Recharging Stations
Key Words: autonomous aerial vehicles  battery powered vehicles  computational complexity  travelling salesman problems  vehicle routing  Unmanned Aerial Vehicles  mobile recharging stations  energy-limited Unmanned Aerial Vehicle  stationary recharging stations  Unmanned Ground Vehicles  UGV  Traveling Salesperson Problem  stationary charging stations  UAV mission  Routing  NP-Hard  Generalized TSP  Batteries  Unmanned aerial vehicles  Charging stations  Land vehicles  Optimization  Monitoring  Planning 
Abstract: We study the problem of finding a tour for an energy-limited Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV) to visit a set of sites in the least amount of time. We envision scenarios where the UAV can be recharged along the way either by landing on stationary recharging stations or on Unmanned Ground Vehicles (UGVs) acting as mobile recharging stations. This leads to a new variant of the Traveling Salesperson Problem (TSP). We present an algorithm that finds not only the order in which to visit the sites but also when and where to land on the charging stations to recharge. Our algorithm plans tours for the UGVs as well as determines best locations to place stationary charging stations. While the problems we study are NP-Hard, we present a practical solution using Generalized TSP that finds the optimal solution. If the UGVs are slower, the algorithm also finds the minimum number of UGVs required to support the UAV mission such that the UAV is not required to wait for the UGV. Our simulation results show that the running time is acceptable for reasonably sized instances.


Title: Topological Multi-Robot Belief Space Planning in Unknown Environments
Key Words: Bayes methods  graph theory  multi-robot systems  path planning  topology  graph pruning  topological properties  factor graphs  topological space  embedded state space  high-dimensional state spaces  announced path approach  topological multirobot belief space planning  BSP approaches  factor graph representation  posterior beliefs  Planning  Robot kinematics  Simultaneous localization and mapping  Linear programming  Aerospace electronics 
Abstract: In this paper we introduce a novel concept, topological belief space planning (BSP), that uses topological properties of the underlying factor graph representation of future posterior beliefs to direct the search for an optimal solution. This concept deviates from state-of-the-art BSP approaches and is motivated by recent results which indicated, in the context of graph pruning, that topological properties of factor graphs dominantly determine the estimation accuracy. Topological space is also often less dimensional than the embedded state space. In particular, we show how this novel concept can be used in multi-robot belief space planning in high-dimensional state spaces to overcome drawbacks of state-of-the-art approaches: computational intractability of an exhaustive objective evaluation for all candidate path combinations from different robots and dependence on the initial guess in the announced path approach, which can lead to a local minimum of the objective function. We demonstrate our approach in a synthetic simulation.


Title: Efficient Stabilization of Zero-Slope Walking for Bipedal Robots Following Their Passive Fixed-Point Trajectories
Key Words: gait analysis  legged locomotion  motion control  stability  trajectory control  biped walking  stabilization  control law  ankle torques  hip  counterweight joint  energy input  numerical simulations  semicircular feet  compliant legs  passive fixed-point trajectories  bipedal robots  zero-slope walking  passive gaits  stable gaits  nonlinear PD terms  virtual-gravity components  Legged locomotion  Foot  Gravity  Hip  Damping  Torso  Stability analysis 
Abstract: This paper presents an efficient method of stabilizing the gait of an underactuated biped with compliant legs and semicircular feet. First, the model is defined, incorporating elements that are often present in experimental biped robots. The biped's passive behavior is studied through numerical simulations that provide insight into the gravity's contribution as an energy input to the system. Based on this study, it is shown that an augmented biped -with the addition of a counterweight joint at the hip- is able to perform stable gaits with minimal input. This design is implemented easily as it does not require ankle torques; instead, both motors are mounted at the biped's hip. The control law used for the stabilization is the combination of virtual-gravity components with non-linear PD terms. The stable gaits performed by the augmented biped on level floor strongly resemble the passive gaits of the original biped walking on a slope, resulting in an efficient, natural-like motion of low transport cost.


Title: Straight-Leg Walking Through Underconstrained Whole-Body Control
Key Words: humanoid robots  legged locomotion  quadratic programming  reachability analysis  robot kinematics  straight-leg walking  whole-body control  natural gait  bipedal robots  straightened legs  complex height planning  whole-body controller  straightest possible leg configuration  run-time  controller solutions  leg joint angle objectives  null-space  quadratic program motion objectives  toe-off motion  kinematic reachability  Legged locomotion  Iterative closest point algorithm  Trajectory  Planning  Acceleration  Foot 
Abstract: We present an approach for achieving a natural, efficient gait on bipedal robots using straightened legs and toe-off. Our algorithm avoids complex height planning by allowing a whole-body controller to determine the straightest possible leg configuration at run-time. The controller solutions are biased towards a straight leg configuration by projecting leg joint angle objectives into the null-space of the other quadratic program motion objectives. To allow the legs to remain straight throughout the gait, toe-off was utilized to increase the kinematic reachability of the legs. The toe-off motion is achieved through underconstraining the foot position, allowing it to emerge naturally. We applied this approach of under-specifying the motion objectives to the Atlas humanoid, allowing it to walk over a variety of terrain. We present both experimental and simulation results and discuss performance limitations and potential improvements.


Title: Agile and Adaptive Hopping Height Control for a Pneumatic Robot
Key Words: legged locomotion  pneumatic actuators  hop height every step  discontinuous terrain  safe footholds  bipedal running  quadrupedal running  constrained vertical hopping  pneumatic robot  vertical height  hopping robot  pneumatically actuated hopper  Legged locomotion  Valves  Computational modeling  Actuators  Atmospheric modeling  Force 
Abstract: This paper presents a controller for the vertical height of a hopping robot. The ability to accurately change the hop height every step will contribute toward the traversal of discontinuous terrain with limited safe footholds, with application to bipedal or quadrupedal running. A key feature of the approach presented is the use of information from previous hops/steps to inform the control of the current step. As well as avoiding modelling errors, this allows the robot to make on-line adjustments in response to changes in system parameters or the environment. The algorithm is simple enough to be easily implemented on a low power hardware, not requiring computationally demanding optimisation or numerical simulation. The effectiveness of this approach has been demonstrated for constrained vertical hopping in simulation and on a pneumatically actuated hopper.


Title: Enhanced Tele-interaction in Unknown Environments Using Semi-Autonomous Motion and Impedance Regulation Principles
Key Words: collision avoidance  human-robot interaction  mobile robots  telerobotics  human intervention  tele-interaction  shared-autonomy Tele-Interaction control approach  impendance colliding  impedance setting  physical interactions  slave robot  human pilot  shared-autonomy control principles  autonomous impedance regulation  autonomous manner  physical constraints  robot platform  interaction forces  physical obstacles  remote robot  impedance modulators  autonomous motion  motion commands  remote workspace  human operator  remote environment  hazardous environments  robotics teleoperation  impedance regulation principles  Robots  Impedance  Task analysis  Collision avoidance  Payloads  Trajectory  Correlation 
Abstract: Robotics teleoperation has been extensively studied and considered in the past in several task scenarios where direct human intervention is not possible due to the hazardous environments. In such applications, both communication degradation and reduced perception of the remote environment are practical issues that can challenge the human operator while controlling the robot and attempting to physically interact within the remote workspace. To address this challenge, we introduce a novel shared-autonomy Tele-Interaction control approach that blends the motion commands from the pilot (master side) with locally (slave side) executed autonomous motion and impedance modulators. This enables a remote robot to handle and autonomously avoid physical obstacles during manoeuvring, reduce interaction forces during contacts, and finally accommodate different payload conditions while at the same time operating with a “default” low impedance setting. We implemented and experimentally validated the proposed method both on simulation and on a real robot platform called CENTAURO. A series of tasks, such as maneuvering through the physical constraints of the remote environment in an autonomous manner, pushing and lifting heavy objects with autonomous impedance regulation and colliding with the rigid geometry of the remote environment were executed. The obtained results demonstrate the effectiveness of the shared-autonomy control principles that eventually aim to reduce the level of attention and stress of human pilot while manoeuvring the slave robot, and at the same time to enhance the robustness of the robot during physical interactions even if accidentally occurred.


Title: A Data-driven Model for Interaction-Aware Pedestrian Motion Prediction in Object Cluttered Environments
Key Words: collision avoidance  learning (artificial intelligence)  mobile robots  motion estimation  navigation  neural nets  pedestrians  human motion behavior  prediction accuracy  data-driven model  interaction-aware pedestrian motion prediction  object cluttered environments  interaction-aware motion prediction approach  human navigation behavior  Long-Short Term Memory neural networks  static obstacles  trajectory forecasting  polar angle space  Predictive models  Robots  Trajectory  Adaptation models  Navigation  Planning  Neural networks 
Abstract: This paper reports on a data-driven, interaction-aware motion prediction approach for pedestrians in environments cluttered with static obstacles. When navigating in such workspaces shared with humans, robots need accurate motion predictions of the surrounding pedestrians. Human navigation behavior is mostly influenced by their surrounding pedestrians and by the static obstacles in their vicinity. In this paper we introduce a new model based on Long-Short Term Memory (LSTM) neural networks, which is able to learn human motion behavior from demonstrated data. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first approach using LSTMs, that incorporates both static obstacles and surrounding pedestrians for trajectory forecasting. As part of the model, we introduce a new way of encoding surrounding pedestrians based on a 1d-grid in polar angle space. We evaluate the benefit of interaction-aware motion prediction and the added value of incorporating static obstacles on both simulation and real-world datasets by comparing with state-of-the-art approaches. The results show, that our new approach outperforms the other approaches while being very computationally efficient and that taking into account static obstacles for motion predictions significantly improves the prediction accuracy, especially in cluttered environments.


Title: Data-Driven Model Predictive Control of Autonomous Mobility-on-Demand Systems
Key Words: demand forecasting  intelligent transportation systems  predictive control  recurrent neural nets  road traffic control  end-to-end performance  customer demand  data-driven Model Predictive Control  LSTM neural network  travel demand  Autonomous Mobility-on-Demand systems control  DiDi Chuxing  MPC algorithm  transportation system  optimal rebalancing strategy  AMoD system  Prediction algorithms  Predictive control  Transportation  Pricing  Control systems  Steady-state  Real-time systems 
Abstract: The goal of this paper is to present an end-to-end, data-driven framework to control Autonomous Mobility-on-Demand systems (AMoD, i.e. fleets of self-driving vehicles). We first model the AMoD system using a time-expanded network, and present a formulation that computes the optimal rebalancing strategy (i.e., preemptive repositioning) and the minimum feasible fleet size for a given travel demand. Then, we adapt this formulation to devise a Model Predictive Control (MPC) algorithm that leverages short-term demand forecasts based on historical data to compute rebalancing strategies. Using simulations based on real customer data from DiDi Chuxing, we test the end-to-end performance of this controller with a state-of-the-art LSTM neural network to predict customer demand: we show that this approach scales very well for large systems (indeed, the computational complexity of the MPC algorithm does not depend on the number of customers and of vehicles in the system) and outperforms state-of-the-art rebalancing strategies by reducing the mean customer wait time by up to to 89.6 %.


Title: Design of a Serial-Parallel Hybrid Leg for a Humanoid Robot
Key Words: end effectors  gait analysis  humanoid robots  legged locomotion  manipulator kinematics  medical robotics  motion control  position control  trajectory tracking  gait trajectory  bar-linkage mechanism  serial mechanism  twin 3 DOF serial chains  parallel mechanisms  serial mechanisms  6 DOF leg mechanism  humanoid robot  serial-parallel Hybrid Leg  inverse kinematics  forward kinematics  conventional serial leg  commercial robot  kinematic specification  hardware prototype  knee pitch rotation  Legged locomotion  Kinematics  Couplings  Prototypes  Hip  Hardware 
Abstract: This paper presents a 6 DOF leg mechanism for a humanoid robot. The proposed Hybrid Leg is designed to combine serial and parallel mechanisms and consists of a pair of twin 3 DOF serial chains in parallel. A 5-bar-linkage mechanism is implemented to the serial mechanism to generate 2 DOF motion regarding hip and knee pitch rotation. The hardware prototype is designed by matching the kinematic specification of a commercial robot's leg to compare the proposed mechanism with a conventional serial leg. We derive the analytical expressions of its forward and inverse kinematics. End-effector workspaces are shown with plots and inverse dynamics analysis of Hybrid Leg and serial leg with a given walking gait trajectory is presented. Hardware experiment is conducted with a prototype to verify the simulated workspace and trajectory tracking performance.


Title: Design, Modeling, and Analysis of Inductive Resonant Coupling Wireless Power Transfer for Micro Aerial Vehicles (MAVs)
Key Words: battery powered vehicles  coils  inductive power transmission  WPT system  transmit coil  WPT circuit design  power-transfer model  two-coil system  WPT circuitry  wirelessly powered MAV  inductive resonant coupling  microaerial vehicle  power transfer system  Batteries  Magnetic resonance  Integrated circuit modeling  Geometry  Analytical models  Couplings  Wireless power transfer 
Abstract: This paper presents the design, modeling, analysis, and experimental validation of an inductive resonant wireless power transfer (WPT) system to power a micro aerial vehicle (MAV). Using WPT, in general, enables longer flight times, virtually eliminates the need for batteries, and minimizes down time for recharging or replacing batteries. The proposed WPT system consists of a transmit coil, which can either be fixed to ground or placed on a mobile platform, and a receive coil carried by the MAV. The details of the WPT circuit design are presented. A power-transfer model is developed for the two-coil system, where the model is used to select suitable coil geometries to maximize the power received by the MAV for hovering. Analysis, simulation, and experimental results are presented to demonstrate the effectiveness of the WPT circuitry. Finally, a wirelessly powered MAV that hovers above the transmit coil is demonstrated in a laboratory setting.


Title: Active Image-Based Modeling with a Toy Drone
Key Words: autonomous aerial vehicles  data acquisition  image reconstruction  image sensors  solid modelling  stereo image processing  iterative linear method  multiview stereo problem  online model reconstruction  toy unmanned aerial vehicle  data acquisition  toy drone  image-based modeling techniques  photo-realistic 3D models  multi-view stereo algorithm  active image-based modeling  Three-dimensional displays  Image reconstruction  Solid modeling  Unmanned aerial vehicles  Planning  Pipelines  Cameras 
Abstract: Image-based modeling techniques [1]-[3] can now generate photo-realistic 3D models from images. But it is up to users to provide high quality images with good coverage and view overlap, which makes the data capturing process tedious and time consuming. We seek to automate data capturing for image-based modeling. The core of our system is an iterative linear method to solve the multi-view stereo (MVS) problem quickly and plan the Next-Best-View (NBV) effectively. Our fast MVS algorithm enables online model reconstruction and quality assessment to determine the NBVs on the fly. We test our system with a toy unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV) in simulated, indoor and outdoor experiments. Results show that our system improves the efficiency of data acquisition and ensures the completeness of the final model.


Title: Reinforcement Learning of Depth Stabilization with a Micro Diving Agent
Key Words: embedded systems  learning (artificial intelligence)  microrobots  multi-agent systems  robot programming  underwater vehicles  model-based value-function RL algorithm  micro underwater agents  underwater robotics  underwater depth stabilization  light embedded systems  control tasks  microdiving agent  reinforcement learning  Computational modeling  Learning (artificial intelligence)  Task analysis  Robot kinematics  Heuristic algorithms  Force 
Abstract: Reinforcement learning (RL) allows robots to solve control tasks through interaction with their environment. In this paper we study a model-based value-function RL approach, which is suitable for computationally limited robots and light embedded systems. We develop a diving agent, which uses the RL algorithm for underwater depth stabilization. Simulations and experiments with the micro diving agent demonstrate its ability to learn the depth stabilization task.


Title: Dynamic Reconfiguration of Mission Parameters in Underwater Human-Robot Collaboration
Key Words: feedforward neural nets  finite state machines  gesture recognition  human-robot interaction  mobile robots  hand gestures  hand gesture recognition  gesture-to-instruction mapping  finite-state machine  convolutional neural network  human-robot collaborative tasks  autonomous underwater robots  parameter reconfiguration method  real-time programming  underwater human-robot collaboration  mission parameters  dynamic reconfiguration  Robustness  Task analysis  Visualization  Robot sensing systems  Unmanned underwater vehicles  Gesture recognition 
Abstract: This paper presents a real-time programming and parameter reconfiguration method for autonomous underwater robots in human-robot collaborative tasks. Using a set of intuitive and meaningful hand gestures, we develop a syntactically simple framework that is computationally more efficient than a complex, grammar-based approach. In the proposed framework, a convolutional neural network is trained to provide accurate hand gesture recognition; subsequently, a finite-state machine- based deterministic model performs efficient gesture-to-instruction mapping and further improves robustness of the interaction scheme. The key aspect of this framework is that it can be easily adopted by divers for communicating simple instructions to underwater robots without using artificial tags such as fiducial markers or requiring memorization of a potentially complex set of language rules. Extensive experiments are performed both on field-trial data and through simulation, which demonstrate the robustness, efficiency, and portability of this framework in a number of different scenarios. Finally, a user interaction study is presented that illustrates the gain in the ease of use of our proposed interaction framework compared to the existing methods for the underwater domain.


Title: Gaussian Process Adaptive Sampling Using the Cross-Entropy Method for Environmental Sensing and Monitoring
Key Words: bathymetry  entropy  Gaussian processes  learning (artificial intelligence)  mobile robots  optimisation  path planning  sampling methods  single ROI  deepest region  coastal bathymetry mapping mission validate  efficient sampling strategy  latest sensory measurements  sampling density  CE trajectory optimization  higher spatial variability  exhibit extreme sensory measurements  exploring learning  initial stage  path planning  GP-UCB  GP upper confidence  receding-horizon Cross-Entropy trajectory optimization  environmental sensing  cross-entropy method  Gaussian process adaptive sampling  Robot sensing systems  Adaptation models  Optimization  Predictive models  Trajectory  Uncertainty 
Abstract: In this paper, we focus on adaptive sampling on a Gaussian Processes (GP) using the receding-horizon Cross-Entropy (CE) trajectory optimization. Specifically, we employ the GP upper confidence bound (GP-UCB) as the optimization criteria to adaptively plan sampling paths that balance the exploitation-exploration trade-off. Path planning at the initial stage focuses on exploring and learning a model of the environment, and later, on exploiting the learned model to focus sampling around regions that exhibit extreme sensory measurements and much higher spatial variability, denoted as the Region of Interest (ROI). The integration of the CE trajectory optimization allows the sampling density to be dynamically adjusted based on the latest sensory measurements, thus providing an efficient sampling strategy for sensing and localizing the ROI. We demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed method in exploring simulated scalar fields with single or multiple ROIs. Field experiments with an Unmanned Surface Vehicle (USV) in a coastal bathymetry mapping mission validate the approach's capability in quickly exploring and mapping the given area, and then focusing and increasing the sampling density around the deepest region, as a surrogate for e.g. the extremal concentration of a pollutant in the environment.


Title: OptLayer - Practical Constrained Optimization for Deep Reinforcement Learning in the Real World
Key Words: control engineering computing  decision making  learning (artificial intelligence)  manipulators  neural nets  optimisation  decision-making problems  reinforcement learning architecture  OptLayer  neural network  closest actions  safe actions  robot reaching tasks  practical constrained optimization  deep reinforcement learning techniques  Robot kinematics  Neural networks  Task analysis  Optimization  Learning (artificial intelligence)  Training 
Abstract: While deep reinforcement learning techniques have recently produced considerable achievements on many decision-making problems, their use in robotics has largely been limited to simulated worlds or restricted motions, since unconstrained trial-and-error interactions in the real world can have undesirable consequences for the robot or its environment. To overcome such limitations, we propose a novel reinforcement learning architecture, OptLayer, that takes as inputs possibly unsafe actions predicted by a neural network and outputs the closest actions that satisfy chosen constraints. While learning control policies often requires carefully crafted rewards and penalties while exploring the range of possible actions, OptLayer ensures that only safe actions are actually executed and unsafe predictions are penalized during training. We demonstrate the effectiveness of our approach on robot reaching tasks, both simulated and in the real world.


Title: Composable Deep Reinforcement Learning for Robotic Manipulation
Key Words: control engineering computing  learning (artificial intelligence)  manipulators  composable deep reinforcement  model-free deep reinforcement learning  simulated robotic manipulation  model-free methods  real-world robotic tasks  maximum entropy policies  soft Q-learning  real-world robotic manipulation  Entropy  Robots  Learning (artificial intelligence)  Neural networks  Machine learning  Task analysis  Training 
Abstract: Model-free deep reinforcement learning has been shown to exhibit good performance in domains ranging from video games to simulated robotic manipulation and locomotion. However, model-free methods are known to perform poorly when the interaction time with the environment is limited, as is the case for most real-world robotic tasks. In this paper, we study how maximum entropy policies trained using soft Q-learning can be applied to real-world robotic manipulation. The application of this method to real-world manipulation is facilitated by two important features of soft Q-learning. First, soft Q-learning can learn multimodal exploration strategies by learning policies represented by expressive energy-based models. Second, we show that policies learned with soft Q-learning can be composed to create new policies, and that the optimality of the resulting policy can be bounded in terms of the divergence between the composed policies. This compositionality provides an especially valuable tool for real-world manipulation, where constructing new policies by composing existing skills can provide a large gain in efficiency over training from scratch. Our experimental evaluation demonstrates that soft Q-learning is substantially more sample efficient than prior model-free deep reinforcement learning methods, and that compositionality can be performed for both simulated and real-world tasks.


Title: Towards Optimally Decentralized Multi-Robot Collision Avoidance via Deep Reinforcement Learning
Key Words: collision avoidance  decentralised control  gradient methods  learning (artificial intelligence)  mobile robots  multi-robot systems  multiscenario multistage training framework  optimal policy  policy gradient  reinforcement learning algorithm  learned sensor-level collision avoidance policy  final learned policy  collision-free paths  large-scale robot system  deep reinforcement learning  safe collision avoidance policy  efficient collision avoidance policy  optimally decentralized multirobot collision avoidance  agent-level feature extraction  decentralized methods  maps raw sensor measurements  multirobot systems  decentralized sensor-level collision avoidance policy  local collision-free action  distributed multirobot collision avoidance systems  Collision avoidance  Robot sensing systems  Robot kinematics  Navigation  Robustness  Training 
Abstract: Developing a safe and efficient collision avoidance policy for multiple robots is challenging in the decentralized scenarios where each robot generates its paths without observing other robots' states and intents. While other distributed multi-robot collision avoidance systems exist, they often require extracting agent-level features to plan a local collision-free action, which can be computationally prohibitive and not robust. More importantly, in practice the performance of these methods are much lower than their centralized counterparts. We present a decentralized sensor-level collision avoidance policy for multi-robot systems, which directly maps raw sensor measurements to an agent's steering commands in terms of movement velocity. As a first step toward reducing the performance gap between decentralized and centralized methods, we present a multi-scenario multi-stage training framework to learn an optimal policy. The policy is trained over a large number of robots on rich, complex environments simultaneously using a policy gradient based reinforcement learning algorithm. We validate the learned sensor-level collision avoidance policy in a variety of simulated scenarios with thorough performance evaluations and show that the final learned policy is able to find time efficient, collision-free paths for a large-scale robot system. We also demonstrate that the learned policy can be well generalized to new scenarios that do not appear in the entire training period, including navigating a heterogeneous group of robots and a large-scale scenario with 100 robots. Videos are available at https://sites.google.com/view/drlmaca.


Title: Learning with Training Wheels: Speeding up Training with a Simple Controller for Deep Reinforcement Learning
Key Words: collision avoidance  learning (artificial intelligence)  mobile robots  three-term control  DRL network  standard Deep Deterministic Policy Gradient network  training wheels  deep reinforcement learning  robotic applications  robot applications  Assisted Reinforcement Learning  PID controller  local planning  navigation problems  simple control law  Training  Navigation  Acceleration  Robot kinematics  Machine learning  Task analysis 
Abstract: Deep Reinforcement Learning (DRL) has been applied successfully to many robotic applications. However, the large number of trials needed for training is a key issue. Most of existing techniques developed to improve training efficiency (e.g. imitation) target on general tasks rather than being tailored for robot applications, which have their specific context to benefit from. We propose a novel framework, Assisted Reinforcement Learning, where a classical controller (e.g. a PID controller) is used as an alternative, switchable policy to speed up training of DRL for local planning and navigation problems. The core idea is that the simple control law allows the robot to rapidly learn sensible primitives, like driving in a straight line, instead of random exploration. As the actor network becomes more advanced, it can then take over to perform more complex actions, like obstacle avoidance. Eventually, the simple controller can be discarded entirely. We show that not only does this technique train faster, it also is less sensitive to the structure of the DRL network and consistently outperforms a standard Deep Deterministic Policy Gradient network. We demonstrate the results in both simulation and real-world experiments.


Title: Deep Reinforcement Learning for Vision-Based Robotic Grasping: A Simulated Comparative Evaluation of Off-Policy Methods
Key Words: learning (artificial intelligence)  Monte Carlo methods  neural nets  robot vision  deep neural network models  off-policy correction  vision-based robotic grasping  off-policy methods  deep reinforcement learning algorithms  off-policy learning  Monte Carlo methods  Grasping  Robots  Task analysis  Benchmark testing  Monte Carlo methods  Machine learning  Training 
Abstract: In this paper, we explore deep reinforcement learning algorithms for vision-based robotic grasping. Model-free deep reinforcement learning (RL) has been successfully applied to a range of challenging environments, but the proliferation of algorithms makes it difficult to discern which particular approach would be best suited for a rich, diverse task like grasping. To answer this question, we propose a simulated benchmark for robotic grasping that emphasizes off-policy learning and generalization to unseen objects. Off-policy learning enables utilization of grasping data over a wide variety of objects, and diversity is important to enable the method to generalize to new objects that were not seen during training. We evaluate the benchmark tasks against a variety of Q-function estimation methods, a method previously proposed for robotic grasping with deep neural network models, and a novel approach based on a combination of Monte Carlo return estimation and an off-policy correction. Our results indicate that several simple methods provide a surprisingly strong competitor to popular algorithms such as double Q-learning, and our analysis of stability sheds light on the relative tradeoffs between the algorithms1.


Title: Overcoming Exploration in Reinforcement Learning with Demonstrations
Key Words: control engineering computing  learning (artificial intelligence)  manipulators  reinforcement learning  reward function  task horizon  RL methods  exploration problem  multistep robotics tasks  robot arm  deep deterministic policy gradients  hindsight experience replay  simulated robotics tasks  Task analysis  Robots  Learning (artificial intelligence)  Stacking  Training  Mathematical model  Games 
Abstract: Exploration in environments with sparse rewards has been a persistent problem in reinforcement learning (RL). Many tasks are natural to specify with a sparse reward, and manually shaping a reward function can result in suboptimal performance. However, finding a non-zero reward is exponentially more difficult with increasing task horizon or action dimensionality. This puts many real-world tasks out of practical reach of RL methods. In this work, we use demonstrations to overcome the exploration problem and successfully learn to perform long-horizon, multi-step robotics tasks with continuous control such as stacking blocks with a robot arm. Our method, which builds on top of Deep Deterministic Policy Gradients and Hindsight Experience Replay, provides an order of magnitude of speedup over RL on simulated robotics tasks. It is simple to implement and makes only the additional assumption that we can collect a small set of demonstrations. Furthermore, our method is able to solve tasks not solvable by either RL or behavior cloning alone, and often ends up outperforming the demonstrator policy.


Title: Adaptive Sampling and Online Learning in Multi-Robot Sensor Coverage with Mixture of Gaussian Processes
Key Words: Gaussian processes  learning (artificial intelligence)  multi-robot systems  optimisation  online learning  multirobot sensor coverage  online environmental sampling  multirobot coverage control  environmental phenomenon  robot team  Gaussian Process  locally learned Gaussian Processes  collective model learning  simultaneous adaptive sampling  density function  sensing performance optimization  Robot sensing systems  Adaptation models  Density functional theory  Temperature distribution  Data models 
Abstract: We consider the problem of online environmental sampling and modeling for multi-robot sensor coverage, where a team of robots spread out over the workspace in order to optimize the overall sensing performance. In contrast to most existing works on multi-robot coverage control that assume prior knowledge of the distribution of environmental phenomenon, also known as density function, we relax this assumption and enable the robot team to efficiently learn the model of the unknown density function Online using adaptive sampling and non-parametric inference such as Gaussian Process (GP). To capture significantly different components of the environmental phenomenon, we propose a new approach with mixture of locally learned Gaussian Processes for collective model learning and an information-theoretic criterion for simultaneous adaptive sampling in multi-robot coverage. Our approach demonstrates a better generalization of the environment modeling and thus the improved performance of coverage without assuming the density function is known a priori. We demonstrate the effectiveness of our algorithm via simulations of information gathering from indoor static sensors.


Title: Coordinated Dense Aerial Traffic with Self-Driving Drones
Key Words: air traffic control  autonomous aerial vehicles  collision avoidance  decentralised control  multi-robot systems  coordinated dense aerial traffic  general air traffic control solution  decentralized air traffic control solution  package-delivery scenarios  intelligent collective collision avoidance  motion planning  jam-free optimal traffic flow  force-based distributed multirobot control model  behaviour-driven velocity alignment  self-organized queueing  conflict-avoiding self-driving  Drones  Mathematical model  Atmospheric modeling  Oscillators  Acceleration  Task analysis  Roads 
Abstract: In this paper we present a general, decentralized air traffic control solution using autonomous drones. We challenge some of the most difficult dense traffic situations, namely, crosswalk and package-delivery scenarios, where intelligent collective collision avoidance and motion planning is essential for a jam-free optimal traffic flow. We build up a force-based distributed multi-robot control model using a tunable selection of interaction terms: anisotropic repulsion, behaviour-driven velocity alignment, self-organized queueing and conflict-avoiding self-driving. We optimize the model with evolution in a realistic simulation framework and demonstrate its applicability with 30 autonomous drones in a coordinated outdoor flight within a densely packed virtual arena.


Title: Near-Optimal Adversarial Policy Switching for Decentralized Asynchronous Multi-Agent Systems
Key Words: decision making  multi-agent systems  multi-robot systems  planning (artificial intelligence)  multirobot  small-scale synchronous decision-making scenarios  asynchronous agents  multiple strategic adversaries  adversary strategies  optimized stratagems  unified policy  near-optimality  optimal adversarial policy switching  decentralized asynchronous multiagent systems  communication capabilities  Switches  Planning  Task analysis  Robot kinematics  Probabilistic logic 
Abstract: A key challenge in multi-robot and multi-agent systems is generating solutions that are robust to other self-interested or even adversarial parties who actively try to prevent the agents from achieving their goals. The practicality of existing works addressing this challenge is limited to only small-scale synchronous decision-making scenarios or a single agent planning its best response against a single adversary with fixed, procedurally characterized strategies. In contrast this paper considers a more realistic class of problems where a team of asynchronous agents with limited observation and communication capabilities need to compete against multiple strategic adversaries with changing strategies. This problem necessitates agents that can coordinate to detect changes in adversary strategies and plan the best response accordingly. Our approach first optimizes a set of stratagems that represent these best responses. These optimized stratagems are then integrated into a unified policy that can detect and respond when the adversaries change their strategies. The near-optimality of the proposed framework is established theoretically as well as demonstrated empirically in simulation and hardware.


Title: Data Ferrying with Swarming UAS in Tactical Defence Networks
Key Words: mobile robots  multi-robot systems  harsh communication environments  UAS  human-swarm interaction  data dissemination capabilities  indoor flight facilities  physical swarm robotic platforms  radio-frequency communications  swarm members  tactical defence networks  Emulation  Convergence  Australia  Radio frequency  Data models  Robot kinematics 
Abstract: In this paper we categorise swarming into four classes, depending on the manner in which swarm members communicate. We identify two of these classes as ready candidates for the provision of communications within tactical defence networks in which radio-frequency communications are highly contested or denied. We demonstrate the feasibility of a swarm-robotics approach to data ferrying from both of these classes using simulation, emulation, and physical swarm robotic platforms within indoor flight facilities. The results show strong alignment between data dissemination capabilities of the simulated and physical systems; we envisage these techniques providing communications between not only troops, but also other swarm robotic platforms, thereby enabling swarm robotics applications and human-swarm interaction within harsh communications environments.


Title: Human-in-the-Loop Mixed-Initiative Control Under Temporal Tasks
Key Words: control engineering computing  human-robot interaction  learning (artificial intelligence)  mobile robots  motion control  path planning  planning (artificial intelligence)  temporal logic  plan adaptation scheme  short-term tasks  iterative inverse reinforcement learning algorithm  human preference  plan synthesis  human-in-the-loop simulations  mixed-initiative control  motion control  task planning problem  mobile robots  high-level tasks  Linear Temporal Logic  hard constraints  soft constraints  robot autonomy  additive terms  contingent task assignments  online coordination scheme  mixed-initiative continuous controller  temporal tasks  human initiatives  Task analysis  Safety  Robot kinematics  Automata  Planning  Navigation 
Abstract: This paper considers the motion control and task planning problem of mobile robots under complex high-level tasks and human initiatives. The assigned task is specified as Linear Temporal Logic (LTL) formulas that consist of hard and soft constraints. The human initiative influences the robot autonomy in two explicit ways: with additive terms in the continuous controller and with contingent task assignments. We propose an online coordination scheme that encapsulates (i) a mixed-initiative continuous controller that ensures all-time safety despite of possible human errors, (ii) a plan adaptation scheme that accommodates new features discovered in the workspace and short-term tasks assigned by the operator during run time, and (iii) an iterative inverse reinforcement learning (IRL) algorithm that allows the robot to asymptotically learn the human preference on the parameters during the plan synthesis. The results are demonstrated by both realistic human-in-the-loop simulations and experiments.


Title: Cooperative Adaptive Control for Cloud-Based Robotics
Key Words: adaptive control  cloud computing  control engineering computing  control system synthesis  decentralised control  Lyapunov methods  manipulators  multi-robot systems  adaptive control  robot manipulators  synchronous centralized update laws  parameter convergence  time-varying network topologies  nonidealized networked conditions  planar manipulator  cloud-based robotics  inertial parameters  collective sufficient richness notion  decentralized update laws  Adaptive control  Manipulators  Convergence  Robot sensing systems  Cloud computing  Trajectory 
Abstract: This paper studies collaboration through the cloud in the context of cooperative adaptive control for robot manipulators. We first consider the case of multiple robots manipulating a common object through synchronous centralized update laws to identify unknown inertial parameters. Through this development, we introduce a notion of Collective Sufficient Richness, wherein parameter convergence can be enabled through teamwork in the group. The introduction of this property and the analysis of stable adaptive controllers that benefit from it constitute the main new contributions of this work. Building on this original example, we then consider decentralized update laws, time-varying network topologies, and the influence of communication delays on this process. Perhaps surprisingly, these nonidealized networked conditions inherit the same benefits of convergence being determined through collective effects for the group. Simple simulations of a planar manipulator identifying an unknown load are provided to illustrate the central idea and benefits of Collective Sufficient Richness.


Title: Pilot Surveys for Adaptive Informative Sampling
Key Words: aerospace control  environmental factors  Gaussian processes  mobile robots  path planning  regression analysis  sampling methods  sampling trajectory  Gaussian Process regression  pilot surveys  adaptive informative sampling  GP hyperparameter estimation  path planning decisions  environmental field modeling  informative samples  adaptive sampling techniques  GP regression  Adaptation models  Data models  Kernel  Robots  Gaussian processes  Estimation  Optimization 
Abstract: Adaptive sampling has been shown to be an effective method for modeling environmental fields, such as algae concentrations in the ocean. In adaptive sampling, a robot adapts its sampling trajectory based on data that it is collecting. This data is often aggregated into models, using techniques such as Gaussian Process (G P) regression. The (hyper-)parameters for these models need to be manually set or, ideally, estimated from data. For GP regression, hyperparameters are typically estimated using prior data. This paper addresses the case where initial hyperparameters need to be estimated, but no prior data is available. Without prior data or accurately pre-defined hyperparameters, adaptive sampling techniques may fail, because there is no good model to base path planning decisions on. One method of gathering data is to perform a pilot survey. This survey needs to select informative samples for initiating the model, but without having a model to determine where best to sample. In this work, we evaluate four pilot surveys, which use a softmax function on the distance between waypoints and previously sampled data for waypoint selection. Simulation results show that pilot surveys that maximize waypoint spread over randomization lead to more stable estimation of GP hyperparameters, and create accurate models more quickly.


Title: Learning to Race Through Coordinate Descent Bayesian Optimisation
Key Words: automobiles  Bayes methods  Hilbert spaces  mobile robots  optimisation  robot dynamics  vehicle dynamics  dynamical model  robot  car racing simulation  descent Bayesian optimisation  race track  kernel Hilbert space  Bayesian optimisation  Optimization  Robot kinematics  Bayes methods  Search problems  Kernel  Linear programming 
Abstract: In the automation of many kinds of processes, the observable outcome can often be described as the combined effect of an entire sequence of actions, or controls, applied throughout the process execution. In these cases, strategies to optimise control policies for individual stages of the process are not applicable, and instead the whole policy needs to be optimised at once. On the other hand, the cost to evaluate the policy's performance might also be high, being desirable that a solution can be found with as few interactions as possible with the real system. We consider the problem of optimising control policies to allow a robot to complete a given race track within a minimum amount of time. We assume that the robot has no prior information about the track or its own dynamical model, just an initial valid driving example. Localisation is only applied to monitor the robot and to provide an indication of its position along the track's centre axis. With that in mind, we propose a method for finding a policy that minimises the time per lap while keeping the vehicle on the track using a Bayesian optimisation (BO) approach over a reproducing kernel Hilbert space. We apply an algorithm to search more efficiently over high-dimensional policy-parameter spaces with BO, by iterating over each dimension individually, in a sequential coordinate descent-like scheme. Experiments demonstrate the performance of the algorithm against other methods in a simulated car racing environment.


Title: Learning to Control Redundant Musculoskeletal Systems with Neural Networks and SQP: Exploiting Muscle Properties
Key Words: biomechanics  biomimetics  bone  humanoid robots  learning (artificial intelligence)  muscle  neural nets  nonlinear control systems  physiological models  quadratic programming  machine learning approaches  muscle stimulations  high actuator redundancy  learned forward model  neural network  biomimetic muscle-driven robot show  nonlinearity  biomechanical musculoskeletal systems  quadratic programming  SQP  Muscles  Joints  Robots  Biological system modeling  Torque  Biomechanics 
Abstract: Modeling biomechanical musculoskeletal systems reveals that the mapping from muscle stimulations to movement dynamics is highly nonlinear and complex, which makes it difficult to control those systems with classical techniques. In this work, we not only investigate whether machine learning approaches are capable of learning a controller for such systems. We are especially interested in the question if the structure of the musculoskeletal apparatus exhibits properties that are favorable for the learning task. In particular, we consider learning a control policy from target positions to muscle stimulations. To account for the high actuator redundancy of biomechanical systems, our approach uses a learned forward model represented by a neural network and sequential quadratic programming to obtain the control policy, which also enables us to alternate the co-contraction level and hence allows to change the stiffness of the system and to include optimality criteria like small muscle stimulations. Experiments on both a simulated musculoskeletal model of a human arm and a real biomimetic muscle-driven robot show that our approach is able to learn an accurate controller despite high redundancy and nonlinearity, while retaining sample efficiency.


Title: Direction Controlled Descent of Samara Autorotating Wings (SAW) with N-Wings * Research supported by the SUTD-MIT International Design Centre (IDC) and by the Temasek Laboratories Defence Innovation Research Programme (DIRP) IGDSP15020141.
Key Words: aerospace components  gyroscopes  mechanical stability  numerical analysis  position control  wind tunnels  direction controlled descent  spinning wing  direction controllability  control schemes  conical spiral autorotation trajectory  gyroscopic stability  maple trees  translational motion  numerical simulations  multiwing SAW prototype  wind-tunnel  samara autorotating wings  ball joint  Surface acoustic waves  Blades  Prototypes  Rotors  Mathematical model  Solid modeling  Stability analysis 
Abstract: The seeds of Maple trees (Samara) use autorotation as a unique mechanism to disperse their seeds. By exploiting gyroscopic stability of a spinning wing, the Samara is able to cover large horizontal distance despite having no form of propulsion. We applied and adapted this natural ability in our novel concept, the Samara Autorotating Wings (SAW), and extended its stability and direction controllability by generalizing the mechanism to incorporate designs with more than 1 wing. By conceiving cyclic control, the translational motion of autorotation is regulated. A nonlinear model of SAW with n wings is derived and control schemes developed to control the translational position during autorotation. Numerical simulations were performed to investigate the performance of the multi-wing SAW prototypes to track a conical spiral autorotation trajectory. Direct experiments were conducted in a vertical wind-tunnel through a special ball joint that allows z-axis translation and all three rotational degrees of freedom. Finally, free-fall drop tests are used to verify the directional controllability and performance of SAW.


Title: Pseudo-bearing Measurements for Improved Localization of Radio Sources with Multirotor UAVs
Key Words: autonomous aerial vehicles  directive antennas  helicopters  mobile radio  mobile robots  omnidirectional antennas  radionavigation  pseudobearing measurements  radio frequency sources  RF source  directional antenna  omnidirectional antenna  antenna theory  ground tests  multirotor UAVs  radio sources localization  bearing-like measurements  unmanned aerial vehicles  Antenna measurements  Directional antennas  Gain  Radio frequency  Extraterrestrial measurements  Rotation measurement 
Abstract: Localizing radio frequency (RF) sources is an important application for unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs), Localization is often carried out by estimating bearing to an RF source, which can be achieved by rotating a directional antenna in place. Multirotor UAVs are well-suited for this sensing modality because they can efficiently rotate in place. However, a full rotation from a single location is needed to account for scale factors affecting the directional antenna's measurements. Although easy to perform, these rotations tend to be slow and delay localization. In this paper, we equip a multirotor UAV with a directional antenna and an omnidirectional antenna. The omnidirectional antenna serves to normalize measurements made by the directional antenna, yielding “pseudo-bearing” measurements. These bearing-like measurements are less informative than bearing measurements but do not require a full rotation, leading to more measurements and faster localization. We validate the normalization with antenna theory and ground tests. Claims of improved localization are validated with simulations and flight tests on a multirotor UAV. Our setup significantly reduces localization time compared to a multirotor UAV equipped with only a directional antenna.


Title: Autonomous Fixed-Wing Aerobatics: From Theory to Flight
Key Words: aerospace components  aircraft control  autonomous aerial vehicles  helicopters  Matlab  microcontrollers  mobile robots  position control  autonomous fixed-wing aerobatics  unmanned aerial vehicles  conventional fixed-wing aircraft  hardware-in-the-loop simulator  Pixhawk microcontroller  Xplane physics engine  HIL simulator  flight platform  agile fixed-wing UAV  rotorcraft  orientation time histories  position time histories  Matlab-Simulink high-fidelity simulation  Aircraft  Aerodynamics  Atmospheric modeling  Control systems  Mathematical model  Aerospace control  Propellers 
Abstract: Unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs) are increasingly being proposed for a wide range of applications. A promising new class of these vehicles, known as agile fixed-wing UAV s, is intended to bridge the gap between conventional fixed-wing aircraft, which can cover long distances efficiently, and rotorcraft, which are typically very maneuverable. This paper addresses the implementation of a controller for agile UAVs, beginning with a hardware-in-the-loop (HIL) simulator, followed by testing on a real platform, both implemented on the Pixhawk microcontroller. We replace the Xplane physics engine used in the standard Pixhawk HIL with our own in-house Matlab/Simulink high-fidelity simulation of an agile UA V. The HIL simulator is found to provide substantial advantages in the transition from pure simulation to experimental testing. Once the controller is integrated into the flight platform, flight tests are conducted, and the results of those tests are compared to those from the HIL simulation and those obtained from the pure simulation environment, for maneuvers including hover, aggressive turnaround, knife-edge, and rolling Harrier. The desired position and orientation time histories were successfully tracked with the proposed implementation, demonstrating the impressive autonomous maneuverability that can be achieved by this type of aircraft.


Title: Three-Dimensional Surgical Needle Localization and Tracking Using Stereo Endoscopic Image Streams
Key Words: Bayes methods  biomedical optical imaging  endoscopes  medical image processing  medical robotics  rendering (computer graphics)  robot kinematics  3D surgical needle localization  stereoendoscopic image streams  robot kinematics  computer vision techniques  da Vinci® Surgical Robotic System  stereo endoscopic camera images  three-dimensional tracking  da Vinci ® robot endoscope  Needles  Robots  Task analysis  Surgery  Image segmentation  Bayes methods  Atmospheric measurements 
Abstract: This paper presents algorithms for three-dimensional tracking of surgical needles using the stereo endoscopic camera images obtained from the da Vinci® Surgical Robotic System. The proposed method employs Bayesian state estimation, computer vision techniques, and robot kinematics. A virtual needle rendering procedure is implemented to create simulated images of the surgical needle under the da Vinci ® robot endoscope, which makes it possible to measure the similarity between the rendered needle image and the real needle. A particle filter algorithm using the mentioned techniques is then used for tracking the surgical needle. The performance of the tracking is experimentally evaluated using an actual da Vinci® surgical robotic system and quantitatively validated in a ROS/Gazebo simulation thereof.


Title: Distributed Real Time Control of Multiple UAVs in Adversarial Environment: Algorithm and Flight Testing Results
Key Words: aircraft control  autonomous aerial vehicles  game theory  helicopters  mobile robots  multi-robot systems  optimal control  path planning  trajectory control  multiple quadrotors  flag game  distributed trajectory planning algorithm  WiFi based communication infrastructure  autopilot modules  low power computing modules  suboptimal control action  adversarial game  Gazebo robot simulator  multiple UAVs  quadrotor platform  flight testing  robot operating system  ROS  Games  Software algorithms  Software  Hardware  Real-time systems  Testing  Computational modeling 
Abstract: We present a complete design and implementation of a system that consists of multiple quadrotors playing capture the flag game. Our main contributions in this work include a custom built quadrotor platform, an efficient implementation of a distributed trajectory planning algorithm, and a WiFi based communication infrastructure. In our design, we equip the quadrotors with autopilot modules for low level control. Moreover, we install low power computing modules for implementing the distributed trajectory planning algorithm online. Furthermore, we develop a communication infrastructure to enable coordination among the quadrotors, which is required for computing a suboptimal control action in real time. The interactions among all the hardware and software components are managed at a higher level by Robot Operating System (ROS). To test the performance of the system, we select a motivating setup of capture the flag game, which is an adversarial game played between two teams of agents called attack and defense. The system is initially simulated in the Gazebo robot simulator with software in the loop. Finally, the complete system is tested and the flight testing results are presented.


Title: Collaborative 6DoF Relative Pose Estimation for Two UAVs with Overlapping Fields of View
Key Words: aerospace computing  autonomous aerial vehicles  groupware  image fusion  Kalman filters  multi-robot systems  nonlinear filters  pose estimation  robot vision  stereo image processing  monocular-inertial odometry  Extended Kalman Filter  collaborative scene estimation  monocular camera  variable-baseline stereo rig  inertial sensor  Unmanned Aerial Vehicles  collaborative robot operation  collaborative 6DoF relative pose estimation  UAV  Cameras  Simultaneous localization and mapping  Collaboration  Estimation  Unmanned aerial vehicles 
Abstract: Driven by the promise of leveraging the benefits of collaborative robot operation, this paper presents an approach to estimate the relative transformation between two small Unmanned Aerial Vehicles (UAVs), each equipped with a single camera and an inertial sensor, comprising the first step of any meaningful collaboration. Formation flying and collaborative object manipulation are some of the few tasks that the proposed work has direct applications on, while forming a variable-baseline stereo rig using two UAVs carrying a monocular camera each promises unprecedented effectiveness in collaborative scene estimation. Assuming an overlap in the UAVs' fields of view, in the proposed framework, each UAV runs monocular-inertial odometry onboard, while an Extended Kalman Filter fuses the UAVs' estimates and common image measurements to estimate the metrically scaled relative transformation between them, in realtime. Decoupling the direction of the baseline between the cameras of the two UAVs from its magnitude, this work enables consistent and robust estimation of the uncertainty of the relative pose estimation. Our evaluation on both on simulated data and benchmarking datasets consisting of real aerial data, reveals the power of the proposed methodology in a variety of scenarios. Video - https://youtu.be/AmkkaXa2601.


Title: Simultaneous Optimization of Assignments and Goal Formations for Multiple Robots
Key Words: approximation theory  computational complexity  graph theory  multi-robot systems  optimisation  path planning  O(n3) time complexity  optimal assignments  multiple robots  fixed goal formations  standard assignment problem  transformed problem  formation parameters  linear sum assignment problem  variable goal formation problem  location parameters  Collision avoidance  Robot kinematics  Trajectory  Shape  Cost function 
Abstract: This paper presents algorithms to simultaneously compute the optimal assignments and formation parameters for a team of robots from a given initial formation to a variable goal formation (where the shape of the goal formation is given, and its scale and location parameters must be optimized). We assume the n robots are identical spheres. We use the sum of squared travel distances as the objective function to be minimized, which also ensures that the trajectories are collision free. We show that this assignment with variable goal formation problem can be transformed to a linear sum assignment problem (LSAP) with pseudo costs that we establish are independent of the formation parameters. The transformed problem can then be solved using the Hungarian algorithm in O(n3) time. Thus the assignment problem with variable goal formations using this new approach has the same O(n3) time complexity as the standard assignment problem with fixed goal formations. Results from simulations on 200 and 600 robots are presented to show the algorithm is sufficiently fast for practical applications.


Title: Inchworm Locomotion Mechanism Inspired Self-Deformable Capsule-Like Robot: Design, Modeling, and Experimental Validation
Key Words: actuators  biomechanics  biomimetics  deformation  robot dynamics  robot kinematics  crawling locomotion behavior  inchworm-like crawling movement  deformable properties  bio-inspired design  robot kinematics  experimental validation  actuated deformation capability  soft actuation mechanisms  inchworm locomotion mechanism  self-deformable capsule-like robot  rigid elements-based morphing structure  robot deformation  Robots  Force  Strain  Friction  Kinetic theory  Biological system modeling 
Abstract: Inspired by the inchworm locomotion mechanism, this paper presents our recently developed self-deformable capsule-like robot. The robot has the actuated deformation capability that relies on a novel rigid elements-based morphing structure (REMS) and its soft actuation mechanisms. When the robot deforms, it generates the crawling locomotion behavior and thus friction waves between the robot and contact surface to facilitate the inchworm-like crawling movement. The paper starts reviewing the deformable properties of natural biological entities like capsules, presents state of the art of the current capsule-like robots, and details the bio-inspired design of the self-deformable capsule-like robot by describing the model of robot kinematics and its locomotion mechanism. Both simulation and experimental results validate the excellent performance of this capsule-like robot. The developed self-deformable capsule-like robot has the advantage of crawling on varied surfaces and it also has the capabilities to crawl in a variety of narrow pipes based on the deformation elicited locomotion nature of the robot.


Title: Grasping of Unknown Objects Using Deep Convolutional Neural Networks Based on Depth Images
Key Words: dexterous manipulators  end effectors  feedforward neural nets  grippers  humanoid robots  learning (artificial intelligence)  pose estimation  rendering (computer graphics)  robot vision  Deep Convolutional Neural Networks  training input  high-quality grasps  analytical grasp planners  rendered depth images  training objects  deep learning techniques  robotic grasping  approach directions  grasping setup  big data grasping database  qualitative grasping experiments  humanoid robot ARMAR-III  unknown objects  data-driven  deep learning approach  Grasping  Robots  Training  Data models  Databases  Feature extraction  Machine learning 
Abstract: We present a data-driven, bottom-up, deep learning approach to robotic grasping of unknown objects using Deep Convolutional Neural Networks (DCNNs). The approach uses depth images of the scene as its sole input for synthesis of a single-grasp solution during execution, adequately portraying the robot's visual perception during exploration of a scene. The training input consists of precomputed high-quality grasps, generated by analytical grasp planners, accompanied with rendered depth images of the training objects. In contrast to previous work on applying deep learning techniques to robotic grasping, our approach is able to handle full end-effector poses and therefore approach directions other than the view direction of the camera. Furthermore, the approach is not limited to a certain grasping setup (e. g. parallel jaw gripper) by design. We evaluate the method regarding its force-closure performance in simulation using the KIT and YCB object model datasets as well as a big data grasping database. We demonstrate the performance of our approach in qualitative grasping experiments on the humanoid robot ARMAR-III.


Title: Active Reward Learning from Critiques
Key Words: Bayes methods  control engineering computing  learning (artificial intelligence)  query processing  robot programming  critiques  active reward Learning  programming robots  active Bayesian inverse reinforcement learning  trajectory queries  labeling process  active learning  Trajectory  Robots  Learning (artificial intelligence)  Bayes methods  Entropy  Task analysis  Uncertainty 
Abstract: Learning from demonstration algorithms, such as Inverse Reinforcement Learning, aim to provide a natural mechanism for programming robots, but can often require a prohibitive number of demonstrations to capture important subtleties of a task. Rather than requesting additional demonstrations blindly, active learning methods leverage uncertainty to query the user for action labels at states with high expected information gain. However, this approach can still require a large number of labels to adequately reduce uncertainty and may also be unintuitive, as users are not accustomed to determining optimal actions in a single out-of-context state. To address these shortcomings, we propose a novel trajectory-based active Bayesian inverse reinforcement learning algorithm that (1) queries the user for critiques of automatically generated trajectories, rather than asking for demonstrations or action labels, (2) utilizes trajectory segmentation to expedite the critique / labeling process, and (3) predicts the user's critiques to generate the most highly informative trajectory queries. We evaluated our algorithm in simulated domains, finding it to compare favorably to prior work and a randomized baseline.


Title: Kinematic Optimization of a Novel Partially Decoupled Three Degree of Freedom Hybrid Wrist Mechanism
Key Words: actuators  couplings  manipulator kinematics  motion control  optimisation  kinematic design  geometric optimization  prismatic-revolute-universal linkage  prismatic-spherical-spherical linkage  spherical motion  pitch-yaw-roll wrist  arbitrary direction  forward kinematics  inverse kinematics  parallel 2-DOF mechanism  design parameters  global transmission index  torque transmissibility  decoupled nature  yaw mechanism  kinematic optimization  partially decoupled three degree of freedom hybrid wrist mechanism  wrist configuration  Kinematics  Wrist  Couplings  Actuators  Optimization  Computer architecture  End effectors 
Abstract: This paper discusses the kinematic design and geometric optimization of a novel hybrid three degree-of-freedom (DOF) wrist mechanism. The architecture consists of a one prismatic-revolute-universal linkage and one prismatic-spherical-spherical linkage in parallel with a revolute-universal linkage. This architecture is capable of spherical motion identical to that of a pitch-yaw-roll wrist. Moreover, this mechanism is considered to be partially decoupled, as not all actuators contribute to motion in an arbitrary direction. The forward and inverse kinematics of the parallel 2-DOF mechanism are presented. The 2-DOF mechanism is geometrically optimized over its design parameters to maximize a global transmission index, which measures the motion and torque transmissibility of particular wrist configuration over its workspace. The decoupled nature of the mechanism allows the pitch and yaw mechanism to be optimized separately, greatly reducing the parameter search space and allowing a much larger number of mechanism configurations to be simulated. We leverage this increase in simulated configurations to examine the effect of size constraints on the resulting mechanisms as well.


Title: Reactive Magnetic-Field-Inspired Navigation for Non-Holonomic Mobile Robots in Unknown Environments
Key Words: mobile robots  navigation  path planning  TurtleBot mobile robot platform  local sensory information  arbitrary-shaped convex environment  magnetic fields  nonholonomic mobile robot taking inspiration  reactive robot navigation method  unknown environments  nonholonomic mobile robots  reactive magnetic-field-inspired navigation  Robot sensing systems  Collision avoidance  Navigation  Mobile robots  Force  Wires 
Abstract: In this paper, we present a reactive robot navigation method for a non-holonomic mobile robot taking inspiration from the phenomena observed in magnetic fields. The algorithm is shown to be able to guide mobile robots in arbitrary-shaped convex environment without being trapped in local minima by exploiting the local sensory information without priori knowledge about the environment. A preliminary validation study involving simulation of and experiments with a TurtleBot mobile robot platform show the advantage of the proposed method over existing ones.


Title: ACT: An Autonomous Drone Cinematography System for Action Scenes
Key Words: cinematography  motion estimation  remotely operated vehicles  video cameras  action scenes  aerial filming  autonomous cinematography system  autonomous drone cinematography system  state-of-the-art drone camera system  real-time dynamical camera planning strategy  drone platform  human action  external motion capture systems  drone cinematography systems  aesthetic objectives  Cameras  Drones  Three-dimensional displays  Skeleton  Planning  Robot vision systems  Trajectory 
Abstract: Drones are enabling new forms of cinematography. Aerial filming via drones in action scenes is difficult because it requires users to understand the dynamic scenarios and operate the drone and camera simultaneously. Existing systems allow the user to manually specify the shots and guide the drone to capture footage, while none of them employ aesthetic objectives to automate aerial filming in action scenes. Meanwhile, these drone cinematography systems depend on the external motion capture systems to perceive the human action, which is limited to the indoor environment. In this paper, we propose an Autonomous CinemaTography system “ACT” on the drone platform to address the above the challenges. To our knowledge, this is the first drone camera system which can autonomously capture cinematic shots of action scenes based on limb movements in both indoor and outdoor environments. Our system includes the following novelties. First, we propose an efficient method to extract 3D skeleton points via a stereo camera. Second, we design a real-time dynamical camera planning strategy that fulfills the aesthetic objectives for filming and respects the physical limits of a drone. At the system level, we integrate cameras and GPUs into the limited space of a drone and demonstrate the feasibility of running the entire cinematography system onboard in real-time. Experimental results in both simulation and real-world scenarios demonstrate that our cinematography system “ACT” can capture more expressive video footage of human action than that of a state-of-the-art drone camera system.


Title: Randomized Kinodynamic Planning for Constrained Systems
Key Words: collision avoidance  large-scale systems  manipulators  mobile robots  random processes  robot dynamics  robot kinematics  state-space methods  trajectory control  trees (mathematics)  kinodynamic RRT planner  atlas  state-space manifold  randomized kinodynamic planner  holonomic constraints  constrained systems  high-dimensional dynamical systems  parallel manipulators  complex systems  trajectories  robots  Mathematical model  Robot kinematics  Planning  Trajectory  Manifolds  Standards 
Abstract: Kinodynamic RRT planners are considered to be general tools for effectively finding feasible trajectories for high-dimensional dynamical systems. However, they struggle when holonomic constraints are present in the system, such as those arising in parallel manipulators, in robots that cooperate to fulfill a given task, or in situations involving contacts with the environment. In such cases, the state space becomes an implicitly-defined manifold, which makes the diffusion heuristic inefficient and leads to inaccurate dynamical simulations. To address these issues, this paper presents an extension of the kinodynamic RRT planner that constructs an atlas of the state-space manifold incrementally, and uses this atlas both to generate random states and to dynamically steer the system towards such states. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first randomized kinodynamic planner that explicitly takes holonomic constraints into account. We validate the approach in significantly-complex systems.


Title: GeneSIS-Rt: Generating Synthetic Images for Training Secondary Real-World Tasks
Key Words: collision avoidance  image segmentation  learning (artificial intelligence)  synthetic images  synthetic data  domain-specific learning tasks  leverage recent progress  image-to-image translation  simulated images  realistic training data  real-world images  GeneSIS-Rtameliorates  GeneSIS-Rtto  high-accuracy predictions  raw simulated data  GeneSIS-RT images  mission-critical tasks  secondary real-world task training  cluttered environment  reactive obstacle avoidance  semantic segmentation  Training  Task analysis  Semantics  Image segmentation  Collision avoidance  Gallium nitride  Training data 
Abstract: We propose a novel approach for generating high-quality, synthetic data for domain-specific learning tasks, for which training data may not be readily available. We leverage recent progress in image-to-image translation to bridge the gap between simulated and real images, allowing us to generate realistic training data for real-world tasks using only unlabeled real-world images and a simulation. GeneSIS-Rtameliorates the burden of having to collect labeled real-world images and is a promising candidate for generating high-quality, domain-specific, synthetic data. To show the effectiveness of using GeneSIS-Rtto create training data, we study two tasks: semantic segmentation and reactive obstacle avoidance. We demonstrate that learning algorithms trained using data generated by GeneSIS-RT make high-accuracy predictions and outperform systems trained on raw simulated data alone, and as well or better than those trained on real data. Finally, we use our data to train a quadcopter to fly 60 meters at speeds up to 3.4 m/s through a cluttered environment, demonstrating that our GeneSIS-RT images can be used to learn to perform mission-critical tasks.


Title: Enhancing Overall Object Placement by Understanding Uncertain Spatial and Qualitative Distance Information in User Commands
Key Words: human-robot interaction  speech-based user interfaces  uncertain spatial terms  uncertain qualitative terms  placement location  object placement  qualitative distance information  voice commands  peer companions  daily assistive tasks  assistive robot companions  voice instructions  Task analysis  Navigation  Visualization  Robot kinematics  Service robots  Manipulators  human-robot interactions  human friendly robotics  service robotics  object manipulation  spatial infor-mation 
Abstract: Humans prefer to use voice commands to guide their peer companions in daily assistive tasks. In human perspective, they expect same behavior from assistive robot companions as well. The paper presents an approach towards using such voice instructions based on uncertain and qualitative information to describe object placements. Consider a case in which a set of objects has to be arranged on a table in a particular spatial area. In such a situation, humans will prefer to use a single command regarding overall arrangement rather than repeating the same command for each and every object placement. In such scenarios, people will be comfortable with commands which are simple and with non-technical words. Most of such commands include uncertain spatial terms such as “Left”, “Middle”, “Right” and uncertain qualitative terms such as “Together”, “Little separately”, “Separately” to describe the arrangement. For example “Keep all objects together in the middle of the table” and “Keep objects separately on the right side of the table” can be considered. But in some situations, these commands will not give a direct idea about the placement location of the objects. For instance, “Keep the middle of the table free” can be cited. Therefore, the robot must be able to understand precisely such information in commands before executing them. The experiments are conducted in a simulated domestic environment. Results of the experiment are presented and discussed.


Title: Multi-Vehicle Motion Planning for Social Optimal Mobility-on-Demand
Key Words: automobiles  collision avoidance  mobile robots  optimal control  optimisation  road traffic  scheduling  potential collision situations  road geometries  joint motion plans  multivehicle motion planning  road network  Vienna Convention  desired deadlines  integrated route  road traffic  motion planning problem  social optimal mobility-on-demand  self-driving cars  bubble spaces  queue scheduling  Roads  Planning  Delays  Task analysis  Sensors  Trajectory  Automobiles 
Abstract: In this paper we consider a fleet of self-driving cars operating in a road network governed by rules of the road, such as the Vienna Convention on Road Traffic, providing rides to customers to serve their demands with desired deadlines. We focus on the associated motion planning problem that trades-off the demands' delays and level of violation of the rules of the road to achieve social optimum among the vehicles. Due to operating in the same environment, the interaction between the cars must be taken into account, and can induce further delays. We propose an integrated route and motion planning approach that achieves scalability with respect to the number of cars by resolving potential collision situations locally within so-called bubble spaces enclosing the conflict. The algorithms leverage the road geometries, and perform joint planning only for lead vehicles in the conflict and use queue scheduling for the remaining cars. Furthermore, a framework for storing previously resolved conflict situations is proposed, which can be use for quick querying of joint motion plans. We show the mobility-on-demand setup and effectiveness of the proposed approach in simulated case studies involving up to 10 self-driving vehicles.


Title: Verifying Controllers Against Adversarial Examples with Bayesian Optimization
Key Words: Bayes methods  Gaussian processes  learning (artificial intelligence)  optimisation  robots  safety  complex safety specifications  complex controllers  Bayesian optimization  adversarial examples  coherent optimization framework  Gaussian Process prior  individual functions  reinforcement learning  reward functions  smooth functions  complex boolean combinations  adversarial counter examples  safety constraints  Bayesian Optimization  active-testing framework  safety-critical applications  Safety  Uncertainty  Robots  Testing  Trajectory  Optimization  Bayes methods 
Abstract: Recent successes in reinforcement learning have lead to the development of complex controllers for realworld robots. As these robots are deployed in safety-critical applications and interact with humans, it becomes critical to ensure safety in order to avoid causing harm. A first step in this direction is to test the controllers in simulation. To be able to do this, we need to capture what we mean by safety and then efficiently search the space of all behaviors to see if they are safe. In this paper, we present an active-testing framework based on Bayesian Optimization. We specify safety constraints using logic and exploit structure in the problem in order to test the system for adversarial counter examples that violate the safety specifications. These specifications are defined as complex boolean combinations of smooth functions on the trajectories and, unlike reward functions in reinforcement learning, are expressive and impose hard constraints on the system. In our framework, we exploit regularity assumptions on individual functions in form of a Gaussian Process (GP) prior. We combine these into a coherent optimization framework using problem structure. The resulting algorithm is able to provably verify complex safety specifications or alternatively find counter examples. Experimental results show that the proposed method is able to find adversarial examples quickly.


Title: On the Relationship Between Bisimulation and Combinatorial Filter Reduction
Key Words: bisimulation equivalence  computational complexity  filtering theory  minimisation  polynomials  equivalence relation  filter minimization problem  polynomial time  bisimulation relations  bisimilarity relation -the union  equivalent behavior-is NP-hard  combinatorial filter reduction  bisimulation quotient operation  input filter  Minimization  Robots  Task analysis  Color  Computational modeling  Cognition  Partitioning algorithms 
Abstract: Combinatorial filters are discrete structures for modeling and reasoning about robotic systems. Such filters are of interest not only because of the potential for reduction of the computational power needed to execute the filter, but also for the insight they can sometimes provide into the information requirements of certain robotic tasks. It is known that the filter minimization problem -that is, for a given filter, to find a combinatorial filter with the minimal number of states among all filters with equivalent behavior-is NP-hard. Intuition might suggest that the well-known notion of bisimulation might be of direct use for this minimization problem. Indeed, the bisimilarity relation -the union of all bisimulation relations over the state space of the original filter-is an equivalence relation, and one might attempt to reduce a filter by merging states that are equivalent under this relation. This paper studies this relationship between bisimulation and combinatorial filter reduction. Specifically, we show that every filter minimization problem can be solved by computing a quotient of the input filter with some relation, but that for some filters, the bisimilarity relation is not the correct relation for this purpose. We also characterize the result of the bisimulation quotient operation as the solution to a different, stricter filter minimization problem, and identify several classes of filters for which a variant of bisimulation, called compatibility, can be used to minimize filters in polynomial time.


Title: Learning-Based Model Predictive Control Under Signal Temporal Logic Specifications
Key Words: control system synthesis  Gaussian processes  learning (artificial intelligence)  predictive control  regression analysis  temporal logic  learning-based model predictive control method  differential constraints  dynamical systems  control strategy synthesis method  signal temporal logic specifications  specific rules  model predictive control procedure  learned margin  signal temporal logic formula  designed controller  traditional control scheme  Predictive control  Robustness  Collision avoidance  Task analysis  Gaussian processes  Service robots 
Abstract: This paper presents a control strategy synthesis method for dynamical systems with differential constraints while satisfying a set of given rules in consideration of their importances. A special attention is given to situations where all rules cannot be met in order to fulfill a given task. Such dilemmas compel us to make a decision on the degree of satisfaction of each rule including which rule should be maintained or not. In this work, we propose a learning-based model predictive control method in order to solve this problem, where a key insight is to combine a learning method and traditional control scheme so that the designed controller behaves close to human experts. A rule is represented as a signal temporal logic (STL) formula. A robustness slackness, a margin to the satisfaction of the rule, is learned from expert's demonstrations using Gaussian process regression. The learned margin is used in a model predictive control procedure, which helps to decide how much to obey each rule, even ignoring specific rules. In track driving simulation, we show that the proposed method generates human-like behavior and efficiently handles dilemmas as human teachers do.


Title: Physics-Based Selection of Informative Actions for Interactive Perception
Key Words: mobile robots  robot dynamics  robot kinematics  visual perception  physics-based selection  informative action  forceful interactions  task-relevant information  informative interactions  articulated mechanisms  action selection task  interactive perception methods  information gain  robust manipulation  Kinematics  Task analysis  Dynamics  Robot sensing systems  Shape  Force 
Abstract: Interactive perception exploits the correlation between forceful interactions and changes in the observed signals to extract task-relevant information from the sensor stream. Finding the most informative interactions to perceive complex objects, like articulated mechanisms, is challenging because the outcome of the interaction is difficult to predict. We propose a method to select the most informative action while deriving a model of articulated mechanisms that includes kinematic, geometric, and dynamic properties. Our method addresses the complexity of the action selection task based on two insights. First, we show that for a class of interactive perception methods, information gain can be approximated by the amount of motion induced in the mechanism. Second, we resort to physics simulations grounded in the real-world through interactive perception to predict possible action outcomes. Our method enables the robot to autonomously select actions for interactive perception that reveal most information, given the current knowledge of the world. This leads to improved perception and more accurate world models, finally enabling robust manipulation.


Title: Pick and Place Without Geometric Object Models
Key Words: geometry  learning (artificial intelligence)  manipulators  geometric object models  robotic pick  deep reinforcement learning problem  deep RL  robotic manipulation frame  low level states  pick-place  regrasping problems  exact geometry  sensor perception  Shape  History  Task analysis  Robot sensing systems  Three-dimensional displays  Geometry 
Abstract: We propose a novel formulation of robotic pick and place as a deep reinforcement learning (RL) problem. Whereas most deep RL approaches to robotic manipulation frame the problem in terms of low level states and actions, we propose a more abstract formulation. In this formulation, actions are target reach poses for the hand and states are a history of such reaches. We show this approach can solve a challenging class of pick-place and regrasping problems where the exact geometry of the objects to be handled is unknown. The only information our method requires is: 1) the sensor perception available to the robot at test time; 2) prior knowledge of the general class of objects for which the system was trained. We evaluate our method using objects belonging to two different categories, mugs and bottles, both in simulation and on real hardware. Results show a major improvement relative to a shape primitives baseline.


Title: Off-Road Lidar Simulation with Data-Driven Terrain Primitives
Key Words: geophysics computing  mobile robots  optical radar  remote sensing by laser beam  vegetation  perception algorithms  geometric terrain representation  Lidar rays  off-road Lidar simulation  vegetation  trees  shrubs  data logs  off-road environments  state estimation algorithms  high-fidelity sensor-realistic simulation  scale off-road robot applications  data-driven terrain primitives  Lidar observations  natural terrain  Laser radar  Software  Three-dimensional displays  Robot sensing systems  Training 
Abstract: Developing software for large scale off-road robot applications is challenging and tedious due to cost, logistics, and rigor of field testing. High-fidelity sensor-realistic simulation can speed up the development process for perception and state estimation algorithms. We focus on Lidar simulation for robots operating in off-road environments. Lidars are integral sensors for robots, and Lidar simulation for off-road environments is particularly challenging due to the way Lidar rays interact with natural terrain such as vegetation. A hybrid geometric terrain representation has been shown to model Lidar observations well [1]. However, previous work has only been able to simulate a single, fixed scene, and the entire scene had to be precisely surveyed. In this work, we add semantic information to the hybrid geometric model. This allows us to extract terrain primitives, such as trees and shrubs, from data logs. Our approach uses these primitives to compose arbitrary scenes for Lidar simulation. We evaluate our simulator on a real-world environment of interest, and show that primitives derived using our approach generalize to new scenes.


Title: A Preliminary Study of Ice-Relative Underwater Vehicle Navigation Beneath Moving Sea Ice
Key Words: autonomous underwater vehicles  Kalman filters  marine navigation  mobile robots  navigation  nonlinear filters  oceanographic techniques  position control  ships  under-ice navigation methods  extended Kalman filter  sufficient satellite beacon separation  vehicle position  ice velocities  vehicle trajectory  ice survey  navigation sensors  ship  precision vehicle  satellite navigation beacons  precision navigation capabilities  under-ice robotic vehicles  moving stationary sea ice  underwater robotic vehicle navigation  vehicle navigation beneath moving sea ice  ice-relative  size 7.6 km  size 1.2 km  Satellite navigation systems  Marine vehicles  Sea ice  Sonar navigation  Acoustics 
Abstract: This paper addresses the problem of underwater robotic vehicle navigation relative to moving or stationary sea ice. A brief review of previously-reported under-ice navigation methods is given, as well as a brief motivation for the use of under-ice robotic vehicles with precision navigation capabilities. We then describe our proposed approach, which employs two or more satellite navigation beacons atop the sea ice along with other precision vehicle and ship mounted navigation sensors to estimate vehicle, ice, and ship states by means of an Extended Kalman Filter. Navigation results for a simulated 7.6 km under ice survey are presented for varying satellite beacon separation. Preliminary analysis suggests that for the simulated sensors, vehicle trajectory, and ice velocities, the proposed method can accurately estimate vehicle position up to 1.2 km from the deployment ship given sufficient satellite beacon separation. Decreased beacon separation results in divergence of the vehicle's position estimate at large standoff distances from the ship. We conclude with suggestions for future improvements.


Title: Self-triggered Adaptive Planning and Scheduling of UAV Operations
Key Words: adaptive control  autonomous aerial vehicles  collision avoidance  energy consumption  helicopters  mobile robots  noise  reachability analysis  risk analysis  scheduling  trajectory optimisation (aerospace)  obstacles avoidance  energy consumption  trajectory curvature  self-triggered adaptive planning  unmanned aerial vehicles  scheduling  quadrotor UAV motion planning  obstacles detection  time consumption  constant periodic sensor measurements  online speed adaptation policy  risk-based analysis  noise  reachability analysis  Trajectory  Robot sensing systems  Safety  Unmanned aerial vehicles  Reachability analysis  Schedules 
Abstract: Modern unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs) rely on constant periodic sensor measurements to detect and avoid obstacles. However, constant checking and replanning are time and energy consuming and are often not necessary especially in situations in which the UAV can safely fly in uncluttered environments without entering unsafe states. Thus, in this paper, we propose a self-triggered framework that leverages reachability analysis to schedule the next time to check sensor measurements and perform replanning while guaranteeing safety under noise and disturbance effects. Further, we relax sensor checking and motion replanning operations by leveraging a risk-based analysis that determines the likelihood to reach undesired states over a certain time horizon. We also propose an online speed adaptation policy based on the planned trajectory curvature to minimize drift from the desired path due to the system dynamics. Finally, we validate the proposed approach with simulations and experiments for a quadrotor UAV motion planning case study in a cluttered environment.


Title: Improving Model-Based Balance Controllers Using Reinforcement Learning and Adaptive Sampling
Key Words: humanoid robots  learning (artificial intelligence)  optimal control  sampling methods  control signals  adaptive sampling  model-based balance controllers  humanoid model  in-place balancing  training disturbances  standard reinforcement learning formulations  deep reinforcement learning techniques  control policy  RoA  model-based optimal controller  learning framework  full-body actions  nonplanar pushes  full-body dynamics  optimal control theory  Perturbation methods  Hip  Adaptation models  Robots  Training  Lips  Learning (artificial intelligence) 
Abstract: Balance control to recover from a wide range of disturbances is an important skill for humanoid robots. Traditionally, researchers have often designed a balance controller by applying optimal control theory on a simplified model that abstracts the full-body dynamics. However, the resulting controller may not be able to recover from unexpected scenarios such as non-planar pushes, or fail to exploit full-body actions such as balancing with arm movements. This paper presents a learning framework for enhancing the performance of a model-based optimal controller by expanding the region of attraction (RoA). We train a control policy that generates additional control signals on top of the model-based controller using deep reinforcement learning techniques. Instead of relying on standard reinforcement learning formulations, we explicitly model the region of attraction and continuously adjust it during the training. By drawing the training disturbances at the boundary of the RoA, we can effectively expand the RoA while avoiding local minima. We test our learning framework for in-place balancing as well as balancing with stepping on a humanoid model in simulation.


Title: Bayesian Optimization with Automatic Prior Selection for Data-Efficient Direct Policy Search
Key Words: Bayes methods  control engineering computing  learning (artificial intelligence)  legged locomotion  manipulators  maximum likelihood estimation  motion control  optimisation  search problems  Most Likely Expected Improvement  5DOF planar arm  6-legged robot  transfer learning task  acquisition function  data-efficient direct policy search  automatic prior selection  Bayesian optimization  Optimization  Bayes methods  Legged locomotion  Task analysis  Predictive models  Computational modeling 
Abstract: One of the most interesting features of Bayesian optimization for direct policy search is that it can leverage priors (e.g., from simulation or from previous tasks) to accelerate learning on a robot. In this paper, we are interested in situations for which several priors exist but we do not know in advance which one fits best the current situation. We tackle this problem by introducing a novel acquisition function, called Most Likely Expected Improvement (MLEI), that combines the likelihood of the priors and the expected improvement. We evaluate this new acquisition function on a transfer learning task for a 5-DOF planar arm and on a possibly damaged, 6-legged robot that has to learn to walk on flat ground and on stairs, with priors corresponding to different stairs and different kinds of damages. Our results show that MLEI effectively identifies and exploits the priors, even when there is no obvious match between the current situations and the priors.


Title: On Bisection Continuous Collision Checking Method: Spherical Joints and Minimum Distance to Obstacles
Key Words: collision avoidance  mobile robots  motion control  path planning  bisection Continuous Collision checking method  spherical joints  Continuous Collision Detection method  tight motion bounds  sampling-based motion planning technique  Baxter research robot  minimum distance extension  obstacle minimum distance  robotic systems  Collision avoidance  Charge coupled devices  Planning  Computational modeling  Manipulators  Motion segmentation 
Abstract: In this paper, we adapt the Continuous Collision Detection (CCD) method proposed in [1] to efficiently handle the case of spherical and two revolute joints, this kind of joints is very common in modern robotic systems. The new formulations provide more tight motion bounds, thus increase the success rate of checking collision-free paths. We also propose an extension to get the minimum distance to obstacles along a path, this information is primordial as it allows sampling-based motion planning techniques to sort collision-free paths according to their minimum clearance. We have integrated our implementation into a sampling-based motion planning technique and validated it through simulation and on the real Baxter research robot. The experiments revealed that the method not only does not miss any collision between the robot and the obstacles, but also the minimum distance extension provides the path with the maximum clearance at no additional computational cost.


Title: MPC-based Collision Avoidance Strategy for Existing Marine Vessel Guidance Systems
Key Words: collision avoidance  marine control  predictive control  MPC-based collision avoidance strategy  marine vessel guidance systems  COLREGS  MPC COLAV algorithm  simulation-based model predictive control  Collision avoidance  Computational modeling  Trajectory  Cost function  Mathematical model  Vehicle dynamics  Propulsion 
Abstract: This paper presents a viable approach for incorporating collision avoidance strategies into existing guidance and control systems on marine vessels. We propose a method that facilitates the use of simulation-based Model Predictive Control (MPC) for collision avoidance (COLAV) on marine vessels. Any COLAV strategy to be applied in real traffic must adhere to the international regulations for preventing collisions at sea (COLREGS). The proposed MPC COLAV method does not rely on an accurate model of the guidance system to achieve vessel behaviors that are compliant with the COLREGS. Rather, it depends on transitional costs in the MPC objective for collision avoidance maneuvers that are being executed by the marine vessel. Hence, it is straightforward to implement the MPC COLAV on different vessels without specific knowledge of the vessel's guidance strategy. Moreover, it offers the possibility to switch between different (possibly application specific) guidance strategies on the same vessel while running the same MPC COLAV algorithm. We present results from full scale experiments that show the viability of our method in different collision avoidance scenarios.


Title: Avoidance of High-Speed Obstacles Based on Velocity Obstacles
Key Words: collision avoidance  mobile robots  velocity control  time horizon  obstacle avoidance algorithm  collision avoidance  two-period velocity obstacle algorithm  high-speed obstacles avoidance  mobile robots  Collision avoidance  Robot kinematics  Prediction algorithms  Heuristic algorithms  Robot sensing systems  Dynamics 
Abstract: For obstacles moving with high speeds, existing motion planning methods can rarely guarantee collision avoidance. This paper proposes a viable two-period velocity obstacle algorithm where one period predicts potential collisions within a limited time horizon, and the second period foresees collisions beyond that horizon. The second period is activated only when the obstacle's moving speed is larger than the maximum speed of the robot. The applicability of the new algorithm and the related computation issues are discussed. Both computer simulations and laboratory experiments illustrated the effectiveness of the proposed obstacle avoidance algorithm.


Title: NanoMap: Fast, Uncertainty-Aware Proximity Queries with Lazy Search Over Local 3D Data
Key Words: cartography  collision avoidance  mobile robots  navigation  sensors  NanoMap  uncertainty-aware proximity queries  lazy search  local 3D data  local 3D information  robustly plan motions  local map structure  mapping approaches  global map fusion  motion planner  pose-uncertainty-aware local 3D geometric information  noisy relative pose transforms  depth sensor measurements  minimum-uncertainty view  motion planning  fast 3D obstacle avoidance  mapping techniques  Uncertainty  Robot sensing systems  Planning  Three-dimensional displays  Collision avoidance  History  Current measurement 
Abstract: We would like robots to be able to safely navigate at high speed, efficiently use local 3D information, and robustly plan motions that consider pose uncertainty of measurements in a local map structure. This is hard to do with previously existing mapping approaches, like occupancy grids, that are focused on incrementally fusing 3D data into a common world frame. In particular, both their fragile sensitivity to state estimation errors and computational cost can be limiting. We develop an alternative framework, NanoMap, which alleviates the need for global map fusion and enables a motion planner to efficiently query pose-uncertainty-aware local 3D geometric information. The key idea of NanoMap is to store a history of noisy relative pose transforms and search over a corresponding set of depth sensor measurements for the minimum-uncertainty view of a queried point in space. This approach affords a variety of capabilities not offered by traditional mapping techniques: (a) the pose uncertainty associated with 3D data can be incorporated in motion planning, (b) poses can be updated (i.e., from loop closures) with minimal computational effort, and (c) 3D data can be fused lazily for the purpose of planning. We provide an open-source implementation of NanoMap, and analyze its capabilities and computational efficiency in simulation experiments. Finally, we demonstrate in hardware its effectiveness for fast 3D obstacle avoidance onboard a quadrotor flying up to 10 m/s.


Title: A Sensorless Collision Detection Approach Based on Virtual Contact Points
Key Words: collision avoidance  force control  manipulators  virtual contact points  force-sensorless collision detection approach  virtual contacts  virtual instantaneous powers  2D collision detection tasks  3D collision detection tasks  DOF spatial manipulator validate  contact link  Collision avoidance  Task analysis  Manipulators  Force  Two dimensional displays  Robot sensing systems 
Abstract: This paper presents a force-sensorless collision detection approach based on virtual contacts. A series of indices based on virtual instantaneous powers are introduced associating to several virtual contacts defined on corresponding links of a manipulator. A possible contact link can be determined by comparing the introduced indices without any force or tactile sensors. Simulation results of 2D collision detection tasks by using a three DOF (Degree of Freedom) planar manipulator and 3D collision detection tasks by using a six DOF spatial manipulator validate the effectiveness of the proposed collision detection approach.


Title: Probabilistic Graph Security for Networked Multi-Robot Systems
Key Words: binary decision diagrams  Boolean functions  graph theory  mobile robots  multi-robot systems  probability  networked multirobot systems  robot interactions  existing control-theoretic notion  network attacks  left invertibility  dynamical system  probabilistic robot communication  adversarial influence  probabilistic graph security problem  system reliability  efficient graphical representation  binary decision diagrams  networked MRS  mobile multirobot teams  mobile MRS  reduced order BDD  Robot sensing systems  Probabilistic logic  Observers  Security  Boolean functions 
Abstract: In this paper, we develop a method for determining the probability of a multi-robot system (MRS) being secure when robot interactions are modeled as a probabilistic graph. To define the security of an MRS, we apply an existing control-theoretic notion of network attacks based on the left invertibility of a dynamical system. We then extend previous work by assuming probabilistic robot communication and sensing, modeling the effects of noise, failure, or adversarial influence on interactions in the network. The probabilistic graph security problem can then be seen as a variant of problems solved in the field of system reliability. This interpretation motivates the application of an efficient graphical representation of boolean functions known as binary decision diagrams (BDDs). Specifically, we use the canonical properties of a special type of BDD, the Reduced Order BDD, to generate a tree that can be efficiently traversed to compute the probability that a networked MRS is left invertible, and thus, secure. We then show how our adopted approach can be applied to systems that have interactions that change over time, e.g., for mobile multi-robot teams. Finally, we demonstrate the validity of our method by simulating a mobile MRS performing a rendezvous objective, while tracking its probability of security over time.


Title: Network Topology Inference in Swarm Robotics
Key Words: graph theory  inference mechanisms  multi-robot systems  network theory (graphs)  swarm intelligence  network topology inference  swarm robotics  topological graph  swarm intelligence  Trajectory  Robots  Network topology  Acceleration  Australia  Mathematical model  Atmospheric measurements 
Abstract: Swarm robotics refers to the implementation of swarm intelligence features like autonomy and self-organization to a collective of robots. This study focuses on the construction of a topological graph that represents both the magnitude and orientation of swarm interactions. Such structure is used for identifying global parameters like leadership and to derive a relationship between the distribution of interaction magnitudes and swarm parameters. Interaction magnitudes were derived from the trajectory distance between nearest neighbors and it was found that the distribution is able to differentiate between only a small subset of controllers, communication ranges and swarm sizes. Leader detection was based on the analysis of position vectors orientation in local neighborhoods. The method was successful at a 100% rate for 10 and 30 robots, while for 60 a minimum rate of 67% was obtained. Additionally, processing times never exceeded a simulation duration for swarms up to 30 robots, with the potential to parallelize for larger sizes.


Title: Using Hardware Specialization and Hierarchy to Simplify Robotic Swarms
Key Words: mobile robots  multi-robot systems  work distribution  hardware specialization  classical distributed robotics problem  robotic swarms  simulated environment  shape formation  Shape  Task analysis  Hardware  Robot sensing systems  Legged locomotion  Collision avoidance 
Abstract: Specialization has always been a tool for work distribution and simplification in nature and in distributed robotics. We present a novel approach to use hardware specialization hierarchically to enhance the capabilities of a swarm without increasing complexity, allowing a numerous group of robots to benefit from the extended features of a few to complete a task that was impossible for them before. We tested the concept under a simulated environment with a classical distributed robotics problem, shape formation, and validated the simulated results against a real experiment.


Title: From Swarms to Stars: Task Coverage in Robot Swarms with Connectivity Constraints
Key Words: distributed control  mobile robots  multi-robot systems  navigation  optimisation  scheduling  Task coverage  Robot swarms  connectivity constraints  swarm robotics  complex tasks  control algorithms  globally coordinated behaviours  spatial coverage  global connectivity  distributed Robot Navigation Controller  RNC  global Task Scheduling Controller  minimal computational load  connectivity assessment  real-life robot experiments  coverage optimality  Task analysis  Robot kinematics  Navigation  Eigenvalues and eigenfunctions  Computational modeling  Multi-robot systems 
Abstract: Swarm robotics carries the potential of solving complex tasks using simple devices. To do so, however, one must define distributed control algorithms capable of producing globally coordinated behaviours. We propose a methodology to address the problem of the spatial coverage of multiple tasks with a swarm of robots that must not lose global connectivity. Our methodology comprises two layers: (i) a distributed Robot Navigation Controller (RNC) is responsible for simultaneously guaranteeing connectivity and pursuit of multiple tasks; and (ii) a global Task Scheduling Controller approximates the optimal strategy for the RNC with minimal computational load. Our contributions include: (i) a qualitative analysis of the literature on connectivity assessment, (ii) our proposed methodology, (iii) simulations in a multi-physics environment, (iv) real-life robot experiments, and (v) the experimental validation of connectivity, coverage optimality, and fault-tolerance.


Title: Learning Robust Policies for Object Manipulation with Robot Swarms
Key Words: Hilbert spaces  learning systems  mobile robots  multi-robot systems  robotic assembly  robust control  search problems  swarm size  robust policies learning  Hilbert space embeddings  policy search methods  low-level object movement policy  high-level assembly plan  assembly process  policy search method  autonomous object assembly  swarm robotics  robot swarms  object manipulation  Robot sensing systems  Task analysis  Light sources  Robustness  Kernel  Trajectory 
Abstract: Swarm robotics investigates how a large population of robots with simple actuation and limited sensors can collectively solve complex tasks. One particular interesting application with robot swarms is autonomous object assembly. Such tasks have been solved successfully with robot swarms that are controlled by a human operator using a light source. In this paper, we present a method to solve such assembly tasks autonomously based on policy search methods. We split the assembly process in two subtasks: generating a high-level assembly plan and learning a low-level object movement policy. The assembly policy plans the trajectories for each object and the object movement policy controls the trajectory execution. Learning the object movement policy is challenging as it depends on the complex state of the swarm which consists of an individual state for each agent. To approach this problem, we introduce a representation of the swarm which is based on Hilbert space embeddings of distributions. This representation is invariant to the number of agents in the swarm as well as to the allocation of an agent to its position in the swarm. These invariances make the learned policy robust to changes in the swarm and also reduce the search space for the policy search method significantly. We show that the resulting system is able to solve assembly tasks with varying object shapes in multiple simulation scenarios and evaluate the robustness of our representation to changes in the swarm size. Furthermore, we demonstrate that the policies learned in simulation are robust enough to be transferred to real robots.


Title: A Nonlinear Control Strategy for Extensible Continuum Robots
Key Words: closed loop systems  control system synthesis  manipulators  nonlinear control systems  PD control  variable structure systems  extensible continuum robots  closed-loop control  adaptation-based control law  rigid-link control device  extensible continuum manipulator  nonlinear control strategy  set-point tracking  Manipulator dynamics  Mathematical model  Convergence  Kinematics  Jacobian matrices 
Abstract: In this paper, we describe a novel nonlinear control strategy for the closed-loop control of extensible continuum robots. Previous attempts at controlling continuum robots have proved difficult due to the complexity of their system dynamics. Taking advantage of a previously developed dynamic model for a three-section, planar, continuum manipulator, we develop an adaptation-based control law. We present simulation results of a set-point tracking between a rigid-link control device and an extensible continuum manipulator. Experimental results of the controller implemented on a six degree-of-freedom continuum robot are also presented.


Title: Model-Based Probabilistic Pursuit via Inverse Reinforcement Learning
Key Words: decision theory  graph theory  learning (artificial intelligence)  Markov processes  mobile robots  navigation  path planning  probability  search problems  control problem  single follower robot  visual contact  moving target  plausible predictions  predictive models  discrete hypotheses  combinatorial search  physical space  model target behavior  learned navigation reward function  semantic terrain features  search methods  predictive pursuit algorithm  multiple satellite maps  simulation scenarios  inverse reinforcement learning  long term behavior  short term behavior  planning pursuit paths  locations  graph representation  latent destination  position  POMDP solvers  domain specific knowledge  model based probabilistic pursuit  Navigation  Planning  Trajectory  Visualization  Entropy  Predictive models  Learning (artificial intelligence) 
Abstract: We address the integrated prediction, planning, and control problem that enables a single follower robot (the photographer) to quickly re-establish visual contact with a moving target (the subject) that has escaped the follower's field of view. We deal with this scenario, which reactive controllers are typically ill-equipped to handle, by making plausible predictions about the long- and short-term behavior of the target, and planning pursuit paths that will maximize the chance of seeing the target again. At the core of our pursuit method is the use of predictive models of target behavior, which help narrow down the set of possible future locations of the target to a few discrete hypotheses, as well as the use of combinatorial search in physical space to check those hypotheses efficiently. We model target behavior in terms of a learned navigation reward function, using Inverse Reinforcement Learning, based on semantic terrain features of satellite maps. Our pursuit algorithm continuously predicts the latent destination of the target and its position in the future, and relies on efficient graph representation and search methods in order to navigate to locations at which the target is most likely to be seen at an anticipated time. We perform extensive evaluation of our predictive pursuit algorithm over multiple satellite maps, thousands of simulation scenarios, against state-of-the art MDP and POMDP solvers. We show that our method significantly outperforms them by exploiting domain-specific knowledge, while being able to run in real-time.


