total paper: 70
Title: Key-frame Selection for Multi-robot Simultaneous Localization and Tracking in Robot Soccer Field
Abstract: Optical images provide rich features but require extensive computation resources to process for SLAM. When there are limited computation resources on the robots, it becomes a heavy burden to process the images in real-time. This paper presents the design and implementation of key-frame selection algorithm for multiple robots simultaneous localization and tracking on the multi-robot soccer games which have pre-defined field and objects. Compared to traditional key-frame selection algorithms, this work makes use of the temporal and spatial relationship among objects on the pre-defined field to compute the information entropy. The selection ratio can be adjusted by two parameters: entropy threshold and the maximum moving distance. The experimental results show that the developed method can effectively detect the change of scene using selected key-frames. And comparing with the localization results using all the images, using less than 20% of all images after walking 11,203mm it only increase up to 0.87% trajectory errors.


Title: LIPS: LiDAR-Inertial 3D Plane SLAM
Abstract: This paper presents the formalization of the closest point plane representation and an analysis of its incorporation in 3D indoor simultaneous localization and mapping (SLAM). We present a singularity free plane factor leveraging the closest point plane representation, and demonstrate its fusion with inertial preintegratation measurements in a graph-based optimization framework. The resulting LiDAR-inertial 3D plane SLAM (LIPS) system is validated both on a custom made LiDAR simulator and on a real-world experiment.


Title: Localization of Classified Objects in SLAM using Nonparametric Statistics and Clustering
Abstract: Traditional Simultaneous Localization and Mapping (SLAM) approaches build maps based on points, lines or planes. These maps visually resemble the environment but without any semantic or information about the objects in the environment. Recent advancements in machine learning have made object detection highly accurate and reliable with large set of objects. Object detection can effectively help SLAM to incorporate semantics in the mapping process. One of the main obstacles is data association between detected objects over time. We demonstrate a nonparametric statistical approach to solve the data association between detected objects over consecutive frames. Then we use an unsupervised clustering method to identify the existence of objects in the map. The complete process can be run in parallel with SLAM. The performance of our algorithm is demonstrated on several public datasets, which shows promising results in locating objects in SLAM.


Title: Fast Kinodynamic Bipedal Locomotion Planning with Moving Obstacles
Abstract: In this paper, we present a sampling-based kino-dynamic planning framework for a bipedal robot in complex environments. Unlike other footstep planning algorithms which typically plan footstep locations and the biped dynamics in separate steps, we handle both simultaneously. Three primary advantages of this approach are (1) the ability to differentiate alternate routes while selecting footstep locations based on the temporal duration of the route as determined by the Linear Inverted Pendulum Model (LIPM) dynamics, (2) the ability to perform collision checking through time so that collisions with moving obstacles are prevented without avoiding their entire trajectory, and (3) the ability to specify a minimum forward velocity for the biped. To generate a dynamically consistent description of the walking behavior, we exploit the Phase Space Planner (PSP) [1] [2]. To plan a collision-free route toward the goal, we adapt planning strategies from non-holonomic wheeled robots to gather a sequence of inputs for the PSP. This allows us to efficiently approximate dynamic and kinematic constraints on bipedal motion, to apply a sampling-based planning algorithm such as RRT or RRT*, and to use the Dubin's path [3] as the steering method to connect two points in the configuration space. The results of the algorithm are sent to a Whole Body Controller [1] to generate full body dynamic walking behavior. Our planning algorithm is tested in a 3D physics-based simulation of the humanoid robot Valkyrie.


Title: Regularizing Reinforcement Learning with State Abstraction
Abstract: State abstraction in a discrete reinforcement learning setting clusters states sharing a similar optimal action to yield an easier to solve decision process. In this paper, we generalize the concept of state abstraction to continuous action reinforcement learning by defining an abstract state as a state cluster over which a near-optimal policy of simple shape exists. We propose a hierarchical reinforcement learning algorithm that is able to simultaneously find the state space clustering and the optimal sub-policies in each cluster. The main advantage of the proposed framework is to provide a straightforward way of regularizing reinforcement learning by controlling the behavioral complexity of the learned policy. We apply our algorithm on several benchmark tasks and a robot tactile manipulation task and show that we can match state-of-the-art deep reinforcement learning performance by combining a small number of linear policies.


Title: Embedding Temporally Consistent Depth Recovery for Real-time Dense Mapping in Visual-inertial Odometry
Abstract: Dense mapping is always the desire of simultaneous localization and mapping (SLAM), especially for the applications that require fast and dense scene information. Visual-inertial odometry (VIO) is a light-weight and effective solution to fast self-localization. However, VIO-based SLAM systems have difficulty in providing dense mapping results due to the spatial sparsity and temporal instability of the VIO depth estimations. Although there have been great efforts on real-time mapping and depth recovery from sparse measurements, the existing solutions for VIO-based SLAM still fail to preserve sufficient geometry details in their results. In this paper, we propose to embed depth recovery into VIO-based SLAM for real-time dense mapping. In the proposed method, we present a subspace-based stabilization scheme to maintain the temporal consistency and design a hierarchical pipeline for edge-preserving depth interpolation to reduce the computational burden. Numerous experiments demonstrate that our method can achieve an accuracy improvement of up to 49.1 cm compared to state-of-the-art learning-based methods for depth recovery and reconstruct sufficient geometric details in dense mapping when only 0.07% depth samples are available. Since a simple CPU implementation of our method already runs at 10-20 fps, we believe our method is very favorable for practical SLAM systems with critical computational requirements.


Title: Towards Minimal Intervention Control with Competing Constraints
Abstract: As many imitation learning algorithms focus on pure trajectory generation in either Cartesian space or joint space, the problem of considering competing trajectory constraints from both spaces still presents several challenges. In particular, when perturbations are applied to the robot, the underlying controller should take into account the importance of each space for the task execution, and compute the control effort accordingly. However, no such controller formulation exists. In this paper, we provide a minimal intervention control strategy that simultaneously addresses the problems of optimal control and competing constraints between Cartesian and joint spaces. In light of the inconsistency between Cartesian and joint constraints, we exploit the robot null space from an information-theory perspective so as to reduce the corresponding conflict. An optimal solution to the aforementioned controller is derived and furthermore a connection to the classical finite horizon linear quadratic regulator (LQR) is provided. Finally, a writing task in a simulated robot verifies the effectiveness of our approach.


Title: Semantic Mapping with Simultaneous Object Detection and Localization
Abstract: We present a filtering-based method for semantic mapping to simultaneously detect objects and localize their 6 degree-of-freedom pose. For our method, called Contextual Temporal Mapping (or CT-Map), we represent the semantic map as a belief over object classes and poses across an observed scene. Inference for the semantic mapping problem is then modeled in the form of a Conditional Random Field (CRF). CT-Map is a CRF that considers two forms of relationship potentials to account for contextual relations between objects and temporal consistency of object poses, as well as a measurement potential on observations. A particle filtering algorithm is then proposed to perform inference in the CT-Map model. We demonstrate the efficacy of the CT-Map method with a Michigan Progress Fetch robot equipped with a RGB-D sensor. Our results demonstrate that the particle filtering based inference of CT-Map provides improved object detection and pose estimation with respect to baseline methods that treat observations as independent samples of a scene.


Title: DS-SLAM: A Semantic Visual SLAM towards Dynamic Environments
Abstract: Simultaneous Localization and Mapping (SLAM) is considered to be a fundamental capability for intelligent mobile robots. Over the past decades, many impressed SLAM systems have been developed and achieved good performance under certain circumstances. However, some problems are still not well solved, for example, how to tackle the moving objects in the dynamic environments, how to make the robots truly understand the surroundings and accomplish advanced tasks. In this paper, a robust semantic visual SLAM towards dynamic environments named DS-SLAM is proposed. Five threads run in parallel in DS-SLAM: tracking, semantic segmentation, local mapping, loop closing and dense semantic map creation. DS-SLAM combines semantic segmentation network with moving consistency check method to reduce the impact of dynamic objects, and thus the localization accuracy is highly improved in dynamic environments. Meanwhile, a dense semantic octo-tree map is produced, which could be employed for high-level tasks. We conduct experiments both on TUM RGB-D dataset and in real-world environment. The results demonstrate the absolute trajectory accuracy in DS-SLAM can be improved one order of magnitude compared with ORB-SLAM2. It is one of the state-of-the-art SLAM systems in high-dynamic environments.


Title: A Combined RGB and Depth Descriptor for SLAM with Humanoids
Abstract: In this paper, we present a visual simultaneous localization and mapping (SLAM) system for humanoid robots. We introduce a new binary descriptor called DLab that exploits the combined information of color, depth, and intensity to achieve robustness with respect to uniqueness, reproducibility, and stability. We use DLab within ORB-SLAM, where we replaced the place recognition module with a modification of FAB-MAP that works with newly built codebooks using our binary descriptor. In experiments carried out in simulation and with a real Nao humanoid equipped with an RGB-D camera, we show that DLab has a superior performance in comparison to other descriptors. The application to feature tracking and place recognition reveal that the new descriptor is able to reliably track features even in sequences with seriously blurred images and that it has a higher percentage of correctly identified similar images. As a result, our new visual SLAM system has a lower absolute trajectory error in comparison to ORB-SLAM and is able to accurately track the robot's trajectory.


Title: Contact Force Control of an Aerial Manipulator in Pressing an Emergency Switch Process
Abstract: The dangerous work situation in industrial leakage accidents urgently needs a flexible and small robot to help workers perform operations and to protect them from being injured. An aerial manipulator system consisting of a hexa-rotor UAV and a one-DOF manipulator is developed, and is used to press an emergency switch to shut off machinery in an emergency. In practical application, an aerial manipulator usually performs contact operations as the UAV platform is in hover flight. The hovering UAV acting as a spring-mass-damper system is firstly proved. Then, based on the derived spring-mass-damper system model and the impedance control algorithm, the force-sensorless contact force control method is presented. That is, the force is indirectly controlled through controlling the UAV's position error and pitch angle simultaneously. The practical operation experiment of pressing an emergency button shows that the proposed method is able to control the contact force as the aerial manipulator interacts with the external environment.


Title: Pose Estimation and Map Formation with Spiking Neural Networks: towards Neuromorphic SLAM
Abstract: In this paper, we investigate the use of ultra low-power, mixed signal analog/digital neuromorphic hardware for implementation of biologically inspired neuronal path integration and map formation for a mobile robot. We perform spiking network simulations of the developed architecture, interfaced to a simulated robotic vehicle. We then port the neuronal map formation architecture on two connected neuromorphic devices, one of which features on-board plasticity, and demonstrate the feasibility of a neuromorphic realization of simultaneous localization and mapping (SLAM).


Title: Uncertainty-based Online Mapping and Motion Planning for Marine Robotics Guidance
Abstract: In real-world robotics, motion planning remains to be an open challenge. Not only robotic systems are required to move through unexplored environments, but also their manoeuvrability is constrained by their dynamics and often suffer from uncertainty. One approach to overcome this problem is to incrementally map the surroundings while, simultaneously, planning a safe and feasible path to a desired goal. This is especially critical in underwater environments, where autonomous vehicles must deal with both motion and environment uncertainties. In order to cope with these constraints, this work proposes an uncertainty-based framework for mapping and planning3 feasible motions online with probabilistic safety-guarantees. The proposed approach deals with the motion, probabilistic safety, and online computation constraints by (i) incrementally representing the environment as a collection of local maps, and (ii) iteratively (re)planning kinodynamically-feasible and probabilistically-safe paths to goal. The proposed framework is evaluated on the Sparus II, a nonholonomic torpedo-shaped AUV, by conducting simulated and real-world trials, thus proving the efficacy of the method and its suitability even for systems with limited on-board computational power.


Title: Vision-Aided Absolute Trajectory Estimation Using an Unsupervised Deep Network with Online Error Correction
Abstract: Adstract- We present an unsupervised deep neural network approach to the fusion of RGB-D imagery with inertial measurements for absolute trajectory estimation. Our network, dubbed the Visual-Inertial-Odometry Learner (VIOLearner), learns to perform visual-inertial odometry (VIO) without inertial measurement unit (IMU) intrinsic parameters (corresponding to gyroscope and accelerometer bias or white noise) or the extrinsic calibration between an IMU and camera. The network learns to integrate IMU measurements and generate hypothesis trajectories which are then corrected online according to the Jacobians of scaled image projection errors with respect to a spatial grid of pixel coordinates. We evaluate our network against state-of-the-art (SOA) visual-inertial odometry, visual odometry, and visual simultaneous localization and mapping (VSLAM) approaches on the KITTI Odometry dataset [1] and demonstrate competitive odometry performance.


Title: Modeling and Control of an Articulated Tail for Maneuvering a Reduced Degree of Freedom Legged Robot
Abstract: This paper presents dynamic modeling and control of an articulated robotic tail to maneuver and stabilize a reduced degree-of-freedom (DOF) quadruped robot. Conventional legged robotic systems consist of leg mechanisms that provide simultaneous propulsion, maneuvering and stabilization. However, in nature animals have been observed to utilize their tails to assist the legs in multiple tasks. Similarly, by incorporating an articulated tail onboard a quadruped robot, dynamic tail motions can be used to aid maneuvering. Therefore, tail implementation can potentially lead to simplifications in design and control of the legged robot since the legs will be responsible for only propulsion tasks. In this paper, a robotic system design consisting of an articulated tail and quadruped robot system is presented. Dynamic models are derived to analyze an optimal tail mass and length ratio to enhance inertial adjustment applications and develop an outer loop controller to plan tail trajectories for desired maneuvering applications. Results of analytical optimization are corroborated with measured data from biological animals. To decouple the dynamics of the articulated tail mechanism an inner loop controller using feedback linearization maps the desired behavior to the actuator inputs. This approach is validated using hardware-in-the-loop experiments with tail prototype in conjunction with simulated quadruped platform. Results demonstrate the capabilities of the articulated tail in enabling precise left and right turning (maneuvering).


Title: Muscle Activation Source Model-based sEMG Signal Decomposition and Recognition of Interface Rotation
Abstract: Muscle activation signals are measured from the skin surface as surface electromyography (EMG) signals that contain information on human intentions; therefore, they are widely used in various robotics applications owing to their usability. However, selective muscle activation extraction is difficult because of the complexity of muscle structures. This study investigated muscle activation source model-based sEMG signal decomposition that considers the anatomical factors of muscle structures. The main advantage of the proposed model-based signal decomposition is that sEMG interface rotation can be recognized by comparing source parameters identified before and after rotation. To assess the performance of the proposed model-based decomposition method, hand motion estimation and rotation recognition were conducted. Additionally, two-dimensional simultaneous control was conducted with an inertial measurement unit to verify the usability of the proposed model. The results indicate that the proposed model decomposes an sEMG signal based on motion with good performance and demonstrate feasibility of motion estimation independent of sEMG interface rotation.


Title: Augmenting Physical Simulators with Stochastic Neural Networks: Case Study of Planar Pushing and Bouncing
Abstract: An efficient, generalizable physical simulator with universal uncertainty estimates has wide applications in robot state estimation, planning, and control. In this paper, we build such a simulator for two scenarios, planar pushing and ball bouncing, by augmenting an analytical rigid-body simulator with a neural network that learns to model uncertainty as residuals. Combining symbolic, deterministic simulators with learnable, stochastic neural nets provides us with expressiveness, efficiency, and generalizability simultaneously. Our model outperforms both purely analytical and purely learned simulators consistently on real, standard benchmarks. Compared with methods that model uncertainty using Gaussian processes, our model runs much faster, generalizes better to new object shapes, and is able to characterize the complex distribution of object trajectories.


Title: Robotic Subsurface Pipeline Mapping with a Ground-penetrating Radar and a Camera
Abstract: We propose a novel subsurface pipeline mapping method by fusing Ground Penetrating Radar (GPR) scans and camera images. To facilitate the simultaneous detection of multiple pipelines, we model the GPR sensing process and prove hyperbola response for general scanning with non-perpendicular angles. Furthermore, we fuse visual simultaneous localization and mapping outputs, encoder readings with GPR scans to classify hyperbolas into different pipeline groups. We extensively apply the J-Linkage method and maximum likelihood estimation to improve algorithm robustness and accuracy. As the result, we optimally estimate the radii and locations of all pipelines. We have implemented our method and tested it in physical experiments with representative pipeline configurations. The results show that our method successfully reconstructs all subsurface pipes. Moreover, the average localization error is 4.69cm.


Title: Mobile Robot Localization Considering Class of Sensor Observations
Abstract: Localization robustness against environment dynamics is significant for robots to achieve autonomous navigation in unmodified environments. A basic method of improving the robustness of a robot is considering the sensor observations obtained from mapped obstacles and using them for localizing the robot's pose. This study proposes an observation model that considers the class of sensor observations, where “class” categorizes the sensor observations as those obtained from mapped and unmapped obstacles. In the proposed approach, the robot's pose and the class are estimated simultaneously. As a result, the robot's pose can be localized using the sensor observations obtained only from mapped obstacles. First, we evaluated the performance of the proposed approach using simulations. Further, we tested the proposed approach in a real-world mobile robot navigation competition, called “Tsukuba Challenge,” held in Japan. The robustness and effectiveness of the proposed approach against environment dynamics were verified from the experimental results.


Title: A B-Spline Mapping Framework for Long-Term Autonomous Operations
Abstract: This paper presents a 2D B-spline mapping framework for representing unstructured environments in a compact manner. While occupancy-grid and landmark-based maps have been successfully employed by the robotics community in indoor scenarios, outdoor long-term autonomous operations require a more compact representation of the environment. This work tackles this problem by interpolating the data of a high frequency sensor using B-spline curves. Compared to lines and circles, splines are more powerful in the sense that they allow for the description of more complex shapes in the scene. In this work, spline curves are continuously tracked and aligned across multiple sensor readings using lightweight methods, making the proposed framework suitable for robot navigation in outdoor missions. In particular, a Simultaneous Localization and Mapping (SLAM) algorithm specifically tailored for B-spline maps is presented here. The efficacy of the proposed framework is demonstrated by Software-in-the-Loop (SiL) simulations in different scenarios.


Title: Preliminary Evaluation of Null-Space Dynamic Process Model Identification with Application to Cooperative Navigation of Underwater Vehicles
Abstract: This paper reports a method and preliminary evaluation of a novel null-space least-squares parameter identification method for a fully nonlinear second -order 6-degree-of-freedom (DOF) dynamic process model of an underactuated underwater vehicle (UV) for which both the model parameters and the control-input parameters are unknown. This paper further reports the application of the identified plant models in combined underwater communication and navigation (cooperative navigation) of UVs. We report an approach to model identification that simultaneously identifies 6-DOF UV nonlinear plant-model parameters, control-surface parameters, and thruster-model parameters. We believe this approach is suitable for identifying plant model parameters from data obtained in full-scale experimental trials of UVs in controlled motion. The reported approach to nonlinear model identification of UVs is evaluated in simulation studies. The resulting identified UV plant models are further evaluated in simulated cooperative navigation missions of the UV that are representative of high-precision survey missions. To the best of our knowledge, this paper reports the first method to identify 6-DOF UV model parameters, control-surface parameters, and thruster-model parameters simultaneously.


Title: Robust Exploration with Multiple Hypothesis Data Association
Abstract: We study the ambiguous data association problem confronting simultaneous localization and mapping (SLAM), specifically for the autonomous exploration of environments lacking rich features. In such environments, a single false positive assignment might lead to catastrophic failure, which even robust back-ends may be unable to resolve. Inspired by multiple hypothesis tracking, we present a novel approach to effectively manage multiple hypotheses (MH) of data association inherited from traditional joint compatibility branch and bound (JCBB), which entails the generation, ordering and elimination of hypotheses. We analyze the performance of MHJCBB in two particular situations, one applying it to SLAM over a predefined trajectory and the other showing its applicability in exploring unknown environments. Statistical results demonstrate that MHJCBB's maintenance of diverse hypotheses under ambiguous conditions significantly improves map accuracy.


Title: Simultaneous Task Allocation and Planning Under Uncertainty
Abstract: We propose novel techniques for task allocation and planning in multi-robot systems operating in uncertain environments. Task allocation is performed simultaneously with planning, which provides more detailed information about individual robot behaviour, but also exploits independence between tasks to do so efficiently. We use Markov decision processes to model robot behaviour and linear temporal logic to specify tasks and safety constraints. Building upon techniques and tools from formal verification, we show how to generate a sequence of multi-robot policies, iteratively refining them to reallocate tasks if individual robots fail, and providing probabilistic guarantees on the performance (and safe operation) of the team of robots under the resulting policy. We implement our approach and evaluate it on a benchmark multi-robot example.


Title: Strategic-Tactical Planning for Autonomous Underwater Vehicles over Long Horizons
Abstract: In challenging environments where human intervention is expensive, robust and persistent autonomy is a key requirement. AI Planners can efficiently construct plans to achieve this long-term autonomous behaviour. However, in plans which are expected to last over days, or even weeks, the size of the state-space becomes too large for current planners to solve as a single problem. These problems are well-suited to decomposition and abstraction planning techniques. We present a novel approach in the context of persistent autonomy in autonomous underwater vehicles, in which tasks are complex and diverse and plans cannot be precomputed. Our approach performs a decomposition into a two-level hierarchical structure, which dynamically constructs planning problems at the upper level of the hierarchy using solution plans from the lower level. Solution plans are then executed and monitored simultaneously at both levels. We evaluate the approach, showing that compared to strictly top-down hierarchical decompositions, our approach leads to more robust solution plans of higher quality.


Title: A Variational Feature Encoding Method of 3D Object for Probabilistic Semantic SLAM
Abstract: This paper presents a feature encoding method of complex 3D objects for high-level semantic features. Recent approaches to object recognition methods become important for semantic simultaneous localization and mapping (SLAM). However, there is a lack of consideration of the probabilistic observation model for 3D objects, as the shape of a 3D object basically follows a complex probability distribution. Furthermore, since the mobile robot equipped with a range sensor observes only a single view, much information of the object shape is discarded. These limitations are the major obstacles to semantic SLAM and view-independent loop closure using 3D object shapes as features. In order to enable the numerical analysis for the Bayesian inference, we approximate the true observation model of 3D objects to tractable distributions. Since the observation likelihood can be obtained from the generative model, we formulate the true generative model for 3D object with the Bayesian networks. To capture these complex distributions, we apply a variational auto-encoder. To analyze the approximated distributions and encoded features, we perform classification with maximum likelihood estimation and shape retrieval.


Title: Robust Sensor Fusion with Self-Tuning Mixture Models
Abstract: A fundamental problem of non-linear state estimation in robotics is the violation of assumptions about the sensors' error distribution. State of the art approaches reduce the impact of these violations with robust cost functions or predefined non-Gaussian error models. Both require extensive parameter tuning and fail if the sensors' error characteristic changes over time, due to environmental changes, ageing or sensor malfunctions. We demonstrate how the error distribution itself can be part of the state estimation process. Based on an efficient approximation of a Gaussian mixture, we optimize the sensor model simultaneously during the standard state estimation. Due to an implicit expectation-maximization approach, we achieve a fast convergence without prior knowledge of the true distribution parameters. We implement this self-tuning algorithm in a least-squares optimization framework and demonstrate its real time capability on a real world dataset for satellite localization of a driving vehicle. The resulting estimation quality is superior to previous robust algorithms.


Title: ArthroSLAM: Multi-Sensor Robust Visual Localization for Minimally Invasive Orthopedic Surgery
Abstract: Minimally invasive arthroscopic surgery is a very challenging procedure that requires the manipulation of instruments in limited intraarticular space using distorted and sometimes uninformative images. Localizing the arthroscope reliably and at all times w.r.t. surrounding tissue is of fundamental importance to prevent unintended injury to patients. However, even highly-trained surgeons can struggle to localize the arthro-scope using poor image feedback. In this paper, we propose and demonstrate for the first time a visual Simultaneous Localisation and Mapping (SLAM) system, termed ArthroSLAM, capable of robustly and reliably localizing an arthroscope inside a human knee joint. The proposed system fuses the information obtained from the arthroscope, an external camera mounted on an arthroscope holder, and the odometry of a robotic arm manipulating the scope, in an Extended Kalman Filter framework. Also for the first time, we implement five alternative strategies for localization and compare them to our method in a realistic setup with a human cadaver knee joint. ArthroSLAM is shown to outperform the alternative strategies under various challenging conditions, localizing reliably and at all times with a mean Relative Pose Error of up to 1.4mm and 0.7°. Additional experiments conducted with degraded odometry data also validate the robustness of the method. An initial evaluation of the sparse map of a knee section computed by our method exhibits good morphological agreement. All results suggest that ArthroSLAM is a viable component for the robotic orthopedic surgical assistant of the future.


Title: Robot Identification and Localization with Pointing Gestures
Abstract: We propose a novel approach to establish the relative pose of a mobile robot with respect to an operator that wants to interact with it; we focus on scenarios in which the robot is in the same environment as the operator, and is visible to them. The approach is based on comparing the trajectory of the robot, which is known in the robot's odometry frame, to the motion of the arm of the operator, who, for a short time, keeps pointing at the robot they want to interact with. In multi-robot scenarios, the same approach can be used to simultaneously identify which robot the operator wants to interact with. The main advantage over alternatives is that our system only relies on the robot's odometry, on a wearable inertial measurement unit (IMU), and, crucially, on the operator's own perception. We experimentally show the feasibility of our approach using real-world robots.


Title: Multimotion Visual Odometry (MVO): Simultaneous Estimation of Camera and Third-Party Motions
Abstract: Estimating motion from images is a well-studied problem in computer vision and robotics. Previous work has developed techniques to estimate the motion of a moving camera in a largely static environment (e.g., visual odometry) and to segment or track motions in a dynamic scene using known camera motions (e.g., multiple object tracking). It is more challenging to estimate the unknown motion of the camera and the dynamic scene simultaneously. Most previous work requires a priori object models (e.g., tracking-by-detection), motion constraints (e.g., planar motion), or fails to estimate the full SE (3) motions of the scene (e.g., scene flow). While these approaches work well in specific application domains, they are not generalizable to unconstrained motions. This paper extends the traditional visual odometry (VO) pipeline to estimate the full SE (3) motion of both a stereo/RGB-D camera and the dynamic scene. This multimotion visual odometry (MVO) pipeline requires no a priori knowledge of the environment or the dynamic objects. Its performance is evaluated on a real-world dynamic dataset with ground truth for all motions from a motion capture system.


Title: Development of Wide Angle Fovea Lens for High-Definition Imager Over 3 Mega Pixels
Abstract: This paper presents a high-quality wide-angle fovea lens, i.e., the WAF lens, for the autonomous robot's and vehicle's super-sensing vision system. The WAF lens is well-known in the field of robotic vision with respect to its unique design concept, biologically-inspired from a visual system of the primates. The WAF lens achieves the following two conflicting properties in imaging simultaneously: (1) wide field of view (FOV) and (2) high magnification factor (although only the central FOV achieves it partially). In this paper, the authors designs the WAF lens for the high-resolution photosensitive imaging chip more than 3M pixels. For this design, we decide the following targets on the assumption of applying this WAF lens for the stereo vision system: (1) The WAF lens can measure a very far distance over 100m ahead from the imager accurately. (2) The WAF lens can observe approximately 100-degree wide FOV on the same time. We produce a prototype of this WAF lens with much higher optical performance than our previous developments. The compound system of the prototype includes four aspherical surfaces in its front part to project enough bright images so that the WAF lens is available not only at daytime but also in dark situations at night. The authors experiment and demonstrate the projection tests using the prototype, and discuss about the results as the inspection of this challenging development.


Title: Vision-Based State Estimation and Trajectory Tracking Control of Car-Like Mobile Robots with Wheel Skidding and Slipping
Abstract: Most existing trajectory tracking controllers are based on non-skidding and non-slipping assumptions, also assume that full states are accessible, which is unrealistic for real-world applications due to tire-road interaction. This paper presents a novel vision-based approach to achieve high performance tracking control of a Car-Like Mobile Robot (CLMR) with wheel skidding and slippage. A visual estimation algorithm is proposed to provide reliable position, velocity, skidding and slipping information to close the control loop. The stability of the proposed system can be guaranteed by Lyapunov method since the position tracking error and the estimation error converge to zero simultaneously. Simulation is made to validate the effectiveness of the developed controller in the presence of skidding and slipping with online visual estimator.


Title: LiDAR-Based Object Tracking and Shape Estimation Using Polylines and Free-Space Information
Abstract: Reliable object perception is a vital requirement for automated driving. Despite the availability of precise contour measurements, most state-of-the-art tracking systems still represent object geometry as bounding boxes. However, there are objects operating in public traffic for which the box assumption is highly inappropriate. We therefore propose to represent object contours using 2D polylines. Taking into account the mutual dependence of object poses and shape, our tracking framework targets at a simultaneous estimation of both states. Moreover, we propose to augment scan segments with free-space information at their boundaries and show how this knowledge can be incorporated into the tracking framework and beyond. Evaluation with real scan data shows that our method produces accurate dynamic estimates and consistent shape reconstructions.


Title: Search-Based Optimal Motion Planning for Automated Driving
Abstract: This paper presents a framework for fast and robust motion planning designed to facilitate automated driving. The framework allows for real-time computation even for horizons of several hundred meters and thus enabling automated driving in urban conditions. This is achieved through several features. Firstly, a convenient geometrical representation of both the search space and driving constraints enables the use of classical path planning approach. Thus, a wide variety of constraints can be tackled simultaneously (other vehicles, traffic lights, etc.). Secondly, an exact cost-to-go map, obtained by solving a relaxed problem, is then used by A*-based algorithm with model predictive flavour in order to compute the optimal motion trajectory. The algorithm takes into account both distance and time horizons. The approach is validated within a simulation study with realistic traffic scenarios. We demonstrate the capability of the algorithm to devise plans both in fast and slow driving conditions, even when full stop is required.


Title: Laser Map Aided Visual Inertial Localization in Changing Environment
Abstract: Long-term visual localization in outdoor environment is a challenging problem, especially faced with the cross-seasonal, bi-directional tasks and changing environment. In this paper we propose a novel visual inertial localization framework that localizes against the LiDAR-built map. Based on the geometry information of the laser map, a hybrid bundle adjustment framework is proposed, which estimates the poses of the cameras with respect to the prior laser map as well as optimizes the state variables of the online visual inertial odometry system simultaneously. For more accurate crossmodal data association, the laser map is optimized using multisession laser and visual data to extract the salient and stable subset for visual localization. To validate the efficiency of the proposed method, we collect data in south part of our campus in different seasons, along the same and opposite-direction route. In all sessions of localization data, our proposed method gives satisfactory results, and shows the superiority of the hybrid bundle adjustment and map optimization1.


Title: Scan Context: Egocentric Spatial Descriptor for Place Recognition Within 3D Point Cloud Map
Abstract: Compared to diverse feature detectors and descriptors used for visual scenes, describing a place using structural information is relatively less reported. Recent advances in simultaneous localization and mapping (SLAM) provides dense 3D maps of the environment and the localization is proposed by diverse sensors. Toward the global localization based on the structural information, we propose Scan Context, a non-histogram-based global descriptor from 3D Light Detection and Ranging (LiDAR) scans. Unlike previously reported methods, the proposed approach directly records a 3D structure of a visible space from a sensor and does not rely on a histogram or on prior training. In addition, this approach proposes the use of a similarity score to calculate the distance between two scan contexts and also a two-phase search algorithm to efficiently detect a loop. Scan context and its search algorithm make loop-detection invariant to LiDAR viewpoint changes so that loops can be detected in places such as reverse revisit and corner. Scan context performance has been evaluated via various benchmark datasets of 3D LiDAR scans, and the proposed method shows a sufficiently improved performance.


Title: Determining Effective Swarm Sizes for Multi-Job Type Missions
Abstract: Swarm search and service (SSS) missions require large swarms to simultaneously search an area while servicing jobs as they are encountered. Jobs must be immediately serviced and can be one of several different job types - each requiring a different service time and number of vehicles to complete its service successfully. After jobs are serviced, vehicles are returned to the swarm and become available for reallocation. As part of SSS mission planning, human operators must determine the number of vehicles needed to achieve this balance. The complexities associated with balancing vehicle allocation to multiple as yet unknown tasks with returning vehicles makes this extremely difficult for humans. Previous work assumes that all system jobs are known ahead of time or that vehicles move independently of each other in a multi-agent framework. We present a dynamic vehicle routing (DVR) framework whose policies optimally allocate vehicles as jobs arrive. By incorporating time constraints into the DVR framework, an M/M/k/k queuing model can be used to evaluate overall steady state system performance for a given swarm size. Using these estimates, operators can rapidly compare system performance across different configurations, leading to more effective choices for swarm size. A sensitivity analysis is performed and its results are compared with the model, illustrating the appropriateness of our method to problems of plausible scale and complexity.


Title: Development and validation of MRI compatible pediatric surgical robot with modular tooling for bone biopsy
Abstract: In clinical practice, magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) is used to locate a lesion/tumor for bone biopsy in children. However, there is a lack of MR-compatible tools that can be used simultaneously during imaging and biopsy while maintaining surgical accuracy and safety. The Pediatric Surgery Robot (PSR) platform is a 5-DOF robot with a modular tool interface. For the case of bone biopsy, a Bone Biopsy Tooling (BBT) is attached. It is designed to fit within a Philips Achieva 3.0T MRI bore and carry a modified titanium bone biopsy needle. A surgical pre-planning and control interface has been developed for joint and Cartesian level control. The PSR-BBT has demonstrated 1.65 +/- 1.77 mm accuracy in Cartesian control in free space. The PSR-BBT can generate 12.46 +/- 0.32 N of axial force while drilling at a speed of 30 rpm, which is sufficient for cortical and cancellous bone phantoms. Under MRI testing (T1-FFE, T1-SE, T2-FFE and T2-TSE scans), the system demonstrated less than 33% signal-to-noise ratio variation while drilling and a 0.46% geometric distortion while powered on without significantly impacting MRI guidance in situ. These results show that the PSR-BBT can allow the user to simultaneously image and perform the biopsy and presents the PSR as a viable platform for MR-guided robotic surgery.


Title: Rolling-Joint Design Optimization for Tendon Driven Snake-Like Surgical Robots
Abstract: The use of snake-like robots for surgery is a popular choice for intra-luminal procedures. In practice, the requirements for strength, flexibility and accuracy are difficult to be satisfied simultaneously. This paper presents a computational approach for optimizing the design of a snake-like robot using serial rolling-joints and tendons as the base architecture. The method optimizes the design in terms of joint angle range and tendon placement to prevent the tendons and joints from colliding during bending motion. The resulting optimized joints were manufactured using 3D printing. The robot was characterized in terms of workspace, dexterity, precision and manipulation forces. The results show a repeatability as low as 0.9mm and manipulation forces of up to 5.6N.


Title: Towards an Automatic Spasticity Assessment by Means of Collaborative Robots
Abstract: Summary form only given. Robotics can play a significant role in the rehabilitation of patients with spasticity by improving their early diagnosis and reducing the costs associated with care. Spasticity is a muscle control disorder characterized by an increase in muscle tone with exaggerated stretch reflexes, as one component of the upper motor neuron syndrome. Furthermore, spasticity is present in other pathologies, such as cerebral palsy, spina bifida, brain stroke among others. This video shows the ongoing research on developing a platform for the modelling and the assessment of spasticity using collaborative robots as clinical tool. Our aim is to develop methods for non-invasive biomechanical modelling of upper limbs joints using 7-DOF Rosen Kinematics [1], mixed with a non-linear state of Hills force-velocity relation [2], improved by introducing new parameters such as rigidity, viscoelasticity, extensibility and thixotropy. After a learning phase performed by the therapist, the robot replicates the trajectories required to perform the assessment. The video also describes the detailed analysis of passive movement response (force/torque and position/velocity)of the limb. These parameters will be used to determine the degree of spasticity of patients in a fast and objective manner, while simultaneously developing new clinical scales, such as a modified version of Ashworth [3].


Title: PAMPC: Perception-Aware Model Predictive Control for Quadrotors
Abstract: We present the first perception-aware model predictive control framework for quadrotors that unifies control and planning with respect to action and perception objectives. Our framework leverages numerical optimization to compute trajectories that satisfy the system dynamics and require control inputs within the limits of the platform. Simultaneously, it optimizes perception objectives for robust and reliable sensing by maximizing the visibility of a point of interest and minimizing its velocity in the image plane. Considering both perception and action objectives for motion planning and control is challenging due to the possible conflicts arising from their respective requirements. For example, for a quadrotor to track a reference trajectory, it needs to rotate to align its thrust with the direction of the desired acceleration. However, the perception objective might require to minimize such rotation to maximize the visibility of a point of interest. A model-based optimization framework, able to consider both perception and action objectives and couple them through the system dynamics, is therefore necessary. Our perception-aware model predictive control framework works in a receding-horizon fashion by iteratively solving a non-linear optimization problem. It is capable of running in real-time, fully onboard our lightweight, small-scale quadrotor using a low-power ARM computer, together with a visual-inertial odometry pipeline. We validate our approach in experiments demonstrating (I) the conflict between perception and action objectives, and (II) improved behavior in extremely challenging lighting conditions.


Title: Learning to Fly by MySelf: A Self-Supervised CNN-Based Approach for Autonomous Navigation
Abstract: Nowadays, Unmanned Aerial Vehicles (UAVs)are becoming increasingly popular facilitated by their extensive availability. Autonomous navigation methods can act as an enabler for the safe deployment of drones on a wide range of real-world civilian applications. In this work, we introduce a self-supervised CNN-based approach for indoor robot navigation. Our method addresses the problem of real-time obstacle avoidance, by employing a regression CNN that predicts the agent's distance-to-collision in view of the raw visual input of its on-board monocular camera. The proposed CNN is trained on our custom indoor-flight dataset which is collected and annotated with real-distance labels, in a self-supervised manner using external sensors mounted on an UAV. By simultaneously processing the current and previous input frame, the proposed CNN extracts spatio-temporal features that encapsulate both static appearance and motion information to estimate the robot's distance to its closest obstacle towards multiple directions. These predictions are used to modulate the yaw and linear velocity of the UAV, in order to navigate autonomously and avoid collisions. Experimental evaluation demonstrates that the proposed approach learns a navigation policy that achieves high accuracy on real-world indoor flights, outperforming previously proposed methods from the literature.


Title: Hands and Faces, Fast: Mono-Camera User Detection Robust Enough to Directly Control a UAV in Flight
Abstract: We present a robust real-time system for simultaneous detection of hands and faces in RGB and gray-scale images, and a novel dataset used for training. Our goal is to provide a robust sensor front-end suitable for real-time human-robot interaction using face-engagement and gestures. Using hand-labelled videos obtained from real human-UAV interaction experiments, we re-trained the YOLOv2 Deep Convolutional Neural Network to detect only hands and faces. This model was then used to automatically label several much larger third-party datasets. After manual correction of these results, we modified and re-trained the model on all this labelled data. We obtain qualitatively good detection results at 60Hz on a commodity GPU: our simultaneous hand-and-face detector gives state of the art accuracy and speed in a hand detection benchmark and competitive results in a face detection benchmark. To demonstrate its effectiveness for human-robot interaction we describe its use as the input to a simple but practical gestural human-UAV interface for entertainment or industrial applications. All software, training and test data are freely available.


Title: Angle-Encoded Swarm Optimization for UAV Formation Path Planning
Abstract: This paper presents a novel and feasible path planning technique for a group of unmanned aerial vehicles (DAVs) conducting surface inspection of infrastructure. The ultimate goal is to minimise the travel distance of DAVs while simultaneously avoid obstacles, and maintain altitude constraints as well as the shape of the UAV formation. A multiple-objective optimisation algorithm, called the Angle-encoded Particle Swarm Optimization (θ- PSO) algorithm, is proposed to accelerate the swarm convergence with angular velocity and position being used for the location of particles. The whole formation is modelled as a virtual rigid body and controlled to maintain a desired geometric shape among the paths created while the centroid of the group follows a pre-determined trajectory. Based on the testbed of 3DR Solo drones equipped with a proprietary Mission Planner, and the Internet-of- Things (loT) for multi-directional transmission and reception of data between the DAV s, extensive experiments have been conducted for triangular formation maintenance along a monorail bridge. The results obtained confirm the feasibility and effectiveness of the proposed approach.


Title: An Integrated Localization-Navigation Scheme for Distance-Based Docking of UAVs
Abstract: In this paper we study the distance-based docking problem of unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs) by using a single landmark placed at an arbitrarily unknown position. To solve the problem, we propose an integrated estimation-control scheme to simultaneously achieve the relative localization and navigation tasks for discrete-time integrators under bounded velocity: a nonlinear adaptive estimation scheme to estimate the relative position to the landmark, and a delicate control scheme to ensure both the convergence of the estimation and the asymptotic docking at the given landmark. A rigorous proof of convergence is provided by invoking the discrete-time LaSalle's invariance principle, and we also validate our theoretical findings on quadcopters equipped with ultra-wideband ranging sensors and optical flow sensors in a GPS-less environment.


Title: SCALAR - Simultaneous Calibration of 2D Laser and Robot's Kinematic Parameters Using Three Planar Constraints
Abstract: Industrial robots are increasingly used in various applications where the robot accuracy becomes very important, hence calibrations of the robot's kinematic parameters and the measurement system's extrinsic parameters are required. However, the existing calibration approaches are either too cumbersome or require another expensive external measurement system such as laser tracker or measurement spinarm. In this paper, we propose SCALAR, a calibration method to simultaneously improve the kinematic parameters of a 6-DoF robot and the extrinsic parameters of a 2D Laser Range Finder (LRF) that is attached to the robot. Three flat planes are placed around the robot, and for each plane the robot moves to several poses such that the LRF's ray intersect the respective plane. Geometric planar constraints are then used to optimize the calibration parameters using Levenberg-Marquardt nonlinear optimization algorithm. We demonstrate through simulations that SCALAR can reduce the average position and orientation errors of the robot system from 14.6 mm and 4.05° to 0.09 mm and 0.02°.


Title: Any-Time Trajectory Planning for Safe Emergency Landing
Abstract: Loss of thrust is a critical situation for human pilots of fixed-wing aircraft which force them to select a landing site in the nearby range and perform an emergency landing. The time for the landing site selection is limited by the actual altitude of the aircraft, and it may be fatal if the correct decision is not chosen fast enough. Therefore, we propose a novel RRT* -based planning algorithm for finding the safest emergency landing trajectory towards a given set of possible landing sites. Multiple landing sites are evaluated simultaneously during the flight even before any mechanical issue occurs, and the roadmap of possible landing trajectories is updated permanently. Thus, the proposed algorithm has the any-time property and provides the best emergency landing trajectory almost instantly.


Title: Stereo Camera Localization in 3D LiDAR Maps
Abstract: As simultaneous localization and mapping (SLAM) techniques have flourished with the advent of 3D Light Detection and Ranging (LiDAR) sensors, accurate 3D maps are readily available. Many researchers turn their attention to localization in a previously acquired 3D map. In this paper, we propose a novel and lightweight camera-only visual positioning algorithm that involves localization within prior 3D LiDAR maps. We aim to achieve the consumer level global positioning system (GPS) accuracy using vision within the urban environment, where GPS signal is unreliable. Via exploiting a stereo camera, depth from the stereo disparity map is matched with 3D LiDAR maps. A full six degree of freedom (DOF) camera pose is estimated via minimizing depth residual. Powered by visual tracking that provides a good initial guess for the localization, the proposed depth residual is successfully applied for camera pose estimation. Our method runs online, as the average localization error is comparable to ones resulting from state-of-the-art approaches. We validate the proposed method as a stand-alone localizer using KITTI dataset and as a module in the SLAM framework using our own dataset.


Title: Modelling an Actuated Large Deformation Soft Continuum Robot Surface Undergoing External Forces Using a Lumped-Mass Approacb* Research supported by UK Engineering and Physical Sciences Research Council (EPSRC).
Abstract: Precise actuation of continuum surfaces in combination with continuum robotic arms that undergo large deformation is of high interest in soft robotics but of limited model-based study to date. This work develops this area towards enabling the robust design and control of large deformation continuum surfaces (LDCS) across multiple industrial applications in the healthcare, aerospace, manufacturing, and automotive domains. It introduces an actuation based dynamic model of LDCSs to accurately determine their deflection due to application of concentrated external forces while maintaining many physical characteristics and constraints on actuation elements and surface structure such as gravity, inertia, damping, elasticity, and interactive forces between actuators and LDCS. Using the lumped-mass methodology, a 3D integrated surface-arm model is developed, simulated and then validated experimentally where a pair of parallel arms are attached to the surface to actuate and deform it. The surface is then simultaneously subjected to a concentrated constant external force at its top center between the two arms. Comparing measured displacements between the experimental and modelling results over actuation time yielded the maximum error is less than 1% of the length of the surface's side at its final deflected profile despite the limited number of nodes (masses) used in the LDCS model while it is exposed to a significant external force.


Title: A Novel Monocular-Based Navigation Approach for UAV Autonomous Transmission-Line Inspection
Abstract: This paper proposes a unique and robust UAV autonomous navigation approach along one side of overhead transmission lines for inspection. To this end, we establish a perspective model and develop a novel Pan/Tilt monocular-based navigation scheme. Simultaneously, the following three key issues are addressed. First, to locate the effective landmark - transmission tower timely and reliably, we customize a neural network for tower detection and combine it with a fast and smooth tracking. Second, to provide UAV with a robust and precise heading, we detect the transmission lines and compute and optimize their vanishing point. Third, to keep a safe distance from transmission lines, we optimize a homography matrix to restore the parallel nature of transmission lines and perceive the distance variation by a point set registration model. Finally, by the designed UAV platform, we test the whole system in a real-world transmission-line inspection scenario under different weather condition and achieve an encouraging result. Our approach provides great flexibility for refined inspection and effectively improves inspection safety.


Title: Energy-Efficient Trajectory Generation for a Hexarotor with Dual- Tilting Propellers
Abstract: In this paper, we consider a non-conventional hexarotor whose propellers can be simultaneously tilted about two orthogonal axes: in this way, its underactuation degree can be easily adapted to the task at hand. For a given tilt profile, the minimum-energy trajectory between two prescribed boundary states is explicitly determined by solving an optimal control problem with respect to the angular accelerations of the six brushless motors. We also perform, for the first time, a systematic study of the singularities of the control allocation matrix of the hexarotor, showing the presence of subtle singular configurations that should be carefully avoided in the design phase. Numerical experiments conducted with the FAST-Hex platform illustrate the theory and delineate the pros and cons of dual-tilting paradigm in terms of maneuverability and energy efficiency.


Title: A Monocular Indoor Localiser Based on an Extended Kalman Filter and Edge Images from a Convolutional Neural Network
Abstract: The main contribution of this paper is an extended Kalman filter (EKF)based algorithm for estimating the 6 DOF pose of a camera using monocular images of an indoor environment. In contrast to popular visual simultaneous localisation and mapping algorithms, the technique proposed relies on a pre-built map represented as an unsigned distance function of the ground plane edges. Images from the camera are processed using a Convolutional Neural Network (CNN)to extract a ground plane edge image. Pixels that belong to these edges are used in the observation equation of the EKF to estimate the camera location. Use of the CNN makes it possible to extract ground plane edges under significant changes to scene illumination. The EKF framework lends itself to use of a suitable motion model, fusing information from any other sensors such as wheel encoders or inertial measurement units, if available, and rejecting spurious observations. A series of experiments are presented to demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed technique.


Title: Probabilistic Learning of Torque Controllers from Kinematic and Force Constraints
Abstract: When learning skills from demonstrations, one is often required to think in advance about the appropriate task representation (usually in either operational or configuration space). We here propose a probabilistic approach for simultaneously learning and synthesizing torque control commands which take into account task space, joint space and force constraints. We treat the problem by considering different torque controllers acting on the robot, whose relevance is learned probabilistically from demonstrations. This information is used to combine the controllers by exploiting the properties of Gaussian distributions, generating new torque commands that satisfy the important features of the task. We validate the approach in two experimental scenarios using 7- DoF torque-controlled manipulators, with tasks that require the consideration of different controllers to be properly executed.


Title: Simultaneous End-User Programming of Goals and Actions for Robotic Shelf Organization
Abstract: Arrangement of items on shelves in stores or warehouses is a tedious, repetitive task that can be feasible for robots to perform. The diversity of products that are available in stores and the different setups and preferences of each store makes pre-programming a robot for this task extremely challenging. Instead, our work argues for enabling end-users to customize the robot to their specific objects and setup at deployment time by programming it themselves. To that end, this paper contributes (i) a task representation for shelf arrangements based on a large dataset of grocery store shelf images, (ii) a method for inferring goal configurations from user inputs including demonstrations and direct parameter specifications, and (iii) a system implementation of the proposed approach that allows simultaneously learning task goals and actions. We evaluate our goal inference approach with ten different teaching strategies that combine alternative user inputs in different ways on the large dataset of grocery configurations, as well as with real human teachers through an online user study (N=32). We evaluate our full system implemented on a Fetch mobile manipulator on eight benchmark tasks that demonstrate end-to-end programming and execution of shelf arrangement tasks.


Title: Adaptive Admittance Control in Task-Priority Framework for Contact Force Control in Autonomous Underwater Floating Manipulation* This work is part of a project titled “Force/position control system to enable compliant manipulation from a floating I-AUV”, which received funding from the European Union's Horizon 2020 research and innovation programme, under the Marie Sklodowska-Curie grant agreement no. 750063.
Abstract: This paper presents a control architecture for an underwater vehicle-manipulator system (UVMS) to enable simultaneous tracking of end-effector configuration and contact force during floating-base manipulation. The main feature of the architecture is its combination of a task-priority (TP) kinematic control algorithm with a custom force control strategy, based on impedance (admittance) control. The TP algorithm used in the work includes recent treatment of equality and inequality tasks as well as original concepts to handle operation in singular configurations of the system. In the force control part the impedance concept is extended to allow for direct control over the value of exerted force and torque. Additional feed-forward signal is used to ensure stable contact. The performance of the control architecture is demonstrated by experiments in a test tank, with GIRONA500 I-AUV performing pipe inspection.


Title: Distributed Pressure Sensing for Enabling Self-Aware Autonomous Aerial Vehicles
Abstract: Autonomous aerial transportation will be a fixture of future robotic societies, simultaneously requiring more stringent safety requirements and fewer resources for characterization than current commercial air transportation. More robust, adaptable, self-state estimation will be necessary to create such autonomous systems. We present a modular, scalable, distributed pressure sensing skin for aerodynamic state estimation of a large, flexible aerostructure. This skin used a network of 22 nodes that performed in situ computation and communication of data collected from 74 pressure sensors, which were embedded into the skin panels of an ultra-lightweight 14-foot wingspan made from commutable, lattice-based subcomponents, and tested at NASA Langley Research Center's 14X22 wind tunnel. The density of the pressure sensors allowed for the use of a novel distributed algorithm to generate estimates of the wing lift contribution that were more accurate than the direct integration of the pressure distribution over the wing surface.


Title: Coping with Context Change in Open-Ended Object Recognition without Explicit Context Information
Abstract: To deploy a robot in a human-centric environment, it is important that the robot is able to continuously acquire and update object categories while working in the environment. Therefore, autonomous robots must have the ability to continuously execute learning and recognition in a concurrent or interleaved fashion. One of the main challenges in unconstrained human environments is to cope with the effects of context change. This paper presents two main contributions: (i) an approach for evaluating open-ended object category learning and recognition methods in multi-context scenarios; (ii) evaluation of different object category learning and recognition approaches regarding their ability to cope with the effects of context change. Off-line evaluation approaches such as cross-validation do not comply with the simultaneous nature of learning and recognition. A teaching protocol, supporting context change, was therefore designed and used in this work for experimental evaluation. Seven learning and recognition approaches were evaluated and compared using the protocol. The best performance, in terms of number of learned categories, was obtained with a recently proposed local variant of Latent Dirichlet Allocation (LDA), closely followed by a Bag-of-Words (BoW) approach. In terms of adaptability, i.e. coping with context change, the best result was obtained with BoW, immediately followed by the local LDA variant.


Title: Submap-Based Pose-Graph Visual SLAM: A Robust Visual Exploration and Localization System* The work in this paper is supported by the National Natural Science Foundation of China (61603103, 61673125), the Natural Science Foundation of Guangdong of China (2016A030310293), and the Major Scientific and Technological Special Project of Guangdong of China (2016B090910003).
Abstract: For VSLAM (Visual Simultaneous Localization and Mapping), localization is a challenging task, especially for some challenging situations: textureless frames, motion blur, etc. To build a robust exploration and localization system in a given space, a submap-based VSLAM system is proposed in this paper. Our system uses a submap back-end and a visual front-end. The main advantage of our system is its robustness with respect to tracking failure, a common problem in current VSLAM algorithms. The robustness of our system is compared with the state-of-the-art in terms of average tracking percentage. The precision of our system is also evaluated in terms of ATE (absolute trajectory error) RMSE (root mean square error) comparing the state-of-the-art. The ability of our system in solving the “kidnapped” problem is demonstrated. Our system can improve the robustness of visual localization in challenging situations.


Title: Learning Monocular Visual Odometry with Dense 3D Mapping from Dense 3D Flow
Abstract: This paper introduces a fully deep learning approach to monocular SLAM, which can perform simultaneous localization using a neural network for learning visual odometry (L-VO) and dense 3D mapping. Dense 2D flow and a depth image are generated from monocular images by sub-networks, which are then used by a 3D flow associated layer in the L-VO network to generate dense 3D flow. Given this 3D flow, the dual-stream L-VO network can then predict the 6DOF relative pose and furthermore reconstruct the vehicle trajectory. In order to learn the correlation between motion directions, the Bivariate Gaussian modeling is employed in the loss function. The L-VO network achieves an overall performance of 2.68 % for average translational error and 0.0143°/m for average rotational error on the KITTI odometry benchmark. Moreover, the learned depth is leveraged to generate a dense 3D map. As a result, an entire visual SLAM system, that is, learning monocular odometry combined with dense 3D mapping, is achieved.


Title: A Bayesian Framework for Simultaneous Robot Localization and Target Detection and Engagement
Abstract: This paper presents a framework for engaging a target while approaching it from a long distance, using observation from sensors on-board a mobile robot. The proposed framework consists of two multi-stage Bayesian approaches to reliably detect and accurately engage with the target under uncertainties. The multi-stage localization approach localizes the robot and the target in a global coordinate frame. Their locations are estimated sequentially when the robot is at a long distance from the target, whereas they are localized simultaneously when the target is in the close vicinity. In the multi-stage target observation approach, a level of confidence and the associated probability of detection of the sensor are defined to make the target detectable in maximal occasions. This allows the extended Kalman filter to be implemented for the target engagement. The proposed framework was implemented on an unmanned ground vehicle equipped with multiple sensors. Results show the effectiveness of the proposed framework in solving real-world problems.


Title: Improving Repeatability of Experiments by Automatic Evaluation of SLAM Algorithms
Abstract: The development of good experimental methodologies for robotics takes often inspiration from general principles of experimental practice. Repeatability prescribes that experiments should involve several trials in order to guarantee that results are not achieved by chance, but are systematic, and statistically significant trends can be identified. In this paper, we propose an approach to improve the repeatability of experiments performed in robotics. In particular, we focus on the domain of SLAM (Simultaneous Localization And Mapping) and we introduce a system that exploits simulations to generate a large number of test data on which SLAM algorithms are automatically evaluated in order to obtain consistent results, according to the principle of repeatability.


Title: Robust Humanoid Control Using a QP Solver with Integral Gains
Abstract: We propose a control framework for torque controlled humanoid robots that efficiently minimizes the tracking error in a Quadratic Programming (QP)formulated as multiobjective weighted tasks with constraints. It results in an optimal dynamically-feasible reference that can be tracked robustly, with exponential convergence, without joint torque feedback, in the presence of non modelled torque bias and low-frequency bounded disturbances. This is achieved by introducing integral gains in a Lyapunov-stable torque control, which exploit the passivity properties of the dynamical model of the robot and their effect on the dynamic constraints of the QP solver. The robustness of this framework is demonstrated in simulation by commanding our robot, the HRP-5P, to achieve simultaneously several objectives in the configuration and the Cartesian spaces, in the presence of non-modeled static and kinetic joint friction, as well as an uncertain torque scale.


Title: C-MPDM: Continuously-Parameterized Risk-Aware MPDM by Quickly Discovering Contextual Policies
Abstract: Risk-aware Multi-Policy Decision Making (MPDM)is a powerful framework for reliable navigation in a dynamic social environment where rather than evaluating individual trajectories, a “library” of policies (reactive controllers)is evaluated by anticipating potentially dangerous future outcomes using an on-line forward roll-out process. There is a core tension in Multi-Policy Decision Making (MPDM)systems - it is desirable to add more policies to the system for flexibility in finding good policies, however, this increases computational cost. As a result, MPDM was limited to small (perhaps 5-10)discrete policies - a significant performance bottleneck. In this paper, we radically enhance the expressivity of MPDM by allowing policies to have continuous-valued parameters, while simultaneously satisfying real-time constraints by quickly discovering promising policy parameters through a novel iterative gradient-based algorithm. Our evaluation includes results from extensive simulation and real-world experiments in semi-crowded environments.


Title: HERO: Accelerating Autonomous Robotic Tasks with FPGA
Abstract: The Heterogeneous Extensible Robot Open (HERO) platform is designed for autonomous robotic research. While bringing in the flexible computational capacities by CPU and FPGA, it addresses the challenges of heterogeneous computing by embracing OpenCL programming. We propose heterogeneous computing approaches for three fundamental robotic tasks: simultaneous localization and mapping (SLAM), motion planning and convolutional neural network (CNN) inference. With FPGA acceleration, the SLAM and motion planning tasks are performed 2-4 times faster on the HERO platform against fine-tuned software implementation. For CNN inference, it can process 20-30 images per second with the network of VGG-16 or ResNet-50. We expect the open platform and the developing experiences shared in this paper can facilitate future robotic research, especially for those compute intensive tasks of perception, movement and manipulation.


Title: The Deformable Quad-Rotor Enabled and Wasp-Pedal-Carrying Inspired Aerial Gripper
Abstract: The paper presents the development of a novel deformable quad-rotor enabled aerial gripper. The mechanism of our deformable quad-rotor is based on simultaneous expansion or contraction of the quad-rotor body, which is generated by controlling a rigid elements based morphing structure (REMS). Such deformation results in a highly deformable quad-rotor that can not only perform morphological adaptation in response to environmental changes and obstacles, but also improve the flight performance by contracting to facilitate the agility/maneuverability or by expanding to enhance the stability. Meanwhile, inspired by the wasp grasping behavior, such controllable expansion and contraction from the REMS ingeniously enable a new function of aerial gripper. In this paper, we start to detail the mechanism and design of the REMS based deformable quad-rotor, then present the quad-rotor deformation enabled aerial gripper design, its dynamics modeling, the grasping function and analysis. The simulation was conducted in order to graphically show the elicited aerodynamic flow situation during expansion or contraction of the quad-rotor with and without carrying payload. Experiments were further implemented to validate the grasping function of the gripper and the flight performance of the quad-rotor. Finally, two case studies on the new aerial gripper were performed. All results demonstrate the excellent performance of the deformable quad-rotor enabled aerial gripper, that is, it has the advantages of both flight maneuverability and grasping capability during performing tasks.


Title: Quotient-Space Motion Planning
Abstract: A motion planning algorithm computes the motion of a robot by computing a path through its configuration space. To improve the runtime of motion planning algorithms, we propose to nest robots in each other, creating a nested quotient-space decomposition of the configuration space. Based on this decomposition we define a new roadmap-based motion planning algorithm called the Quotient-space roadMap Planner (QMP). The algorithm starts growing a graph on the lowest dimensional quotient space, switches to the next quotient space once a valid path has been found, and keeps updating the graphs on each quotient space simultaneously until a valid path in the configuration space has been found. We show that this algorithm is probabilistically complete and outperforms a set of state-of-the-art algorithms implemented in the open motion planning library (OMPL).


Title: Joint Stem Detection and Crop-Weed Classification for Plant-Specific Treatment in Precision Farming
Abstract: Applying agrochemicals is the default procedure for conventional weed control in crop production, but has negative impacts on the environment. Robots have the potential to treat every plant in the field individually and thus can reduce the required use of such chemicals. To achieve that, robots need the ability to identify crops and weeds in the field and must additionally select effective treatments. While certain types of weed can be treated mechanically, other types need to be treated by (selective) spraying. In this paper, we present an approach that provides the necessary information for effective plant-specific treatment. It outputs the stem location for weeds, which allows for mechanical treatments, and the covered area of the weed for selective spraying. Our approach uses an end-to-end trainable fully convolutional network that simultaneously estimates stem positions as well as the covered area of crops and weeds. It jointly learns the class-wise stem detection and the pixel-wise semantic segmentation. Experimental evaluations on different real-world datasets show that our approach is able to reliably solve this problem. Compared to state-of-the-art approaches, our approach not only substantially improves the stem detection accuracy, i.e., distinguishing crop and weed stems, but also provides an improvement in the semantic segmentation performance.


Title: π-SoC: Heterogeneous SoC Architecture for Visual Inertial SLAM Applications
Abstract: In recent years, we have observed a clear trend in the rapid rise of autonomous vehicles and robotics. One of the core technologies enabling these applications, Simultaneous Localization And Mapping (SLAM), imposes two main challenges: first, these workloads are computationally intensive and they often have real-time requirements; second, these workloads run on battery-powered mobile devices with limited energy budget. Hence, performance should be improved while simultaneously reducing energy consumption, two rather contradicting goals by conventional wisdom. Previous attempts to optimize SLAM performance and energy efficiency usually involve optimizing one function and fail to approach the problem systematically. In this paper, we first study the characteristics of visual inertial SLAM workloads on existing heterogeneous SoCs. Then based on the initial findings, we propose π-SoC, a heterogeneous SoC design that systematically optimize the IO interface, the memory hierarchy, as well as the the hardware accelerator. We implemented this system on a Xilinx Zynq UltraScale MPSoC and was able to deliver over 60 FPS performance with average power less than 5 W.


Title: Smooth Point-to-Point Trajectory Planning in $SE$ (3)with Self-Collision and Joint Constraints Avoidance
Abstract: In this paper we introduce a novel point-to-point trajectory planner for serial robotic structures that combines the ability to avoid self-collisions and to respect motion constraints, while complying with the requirement of being C4 continuous. The latter property makes our approach also suited for 4th order dynamics flexible joint robots, which gained significant practical relevance recently. In particular, we address the problem of generating a smooth, kinematically nearly time-optimal SE(3) trajectory while simultaneously avoiding potential collisions of the robot end-effector with its base as well as respecting the Cartesian unreachable states induced by the joint limits of the proximal kinematic structure.


Title: The Earth Ain't Flat: Monocular Reconstruction of Vehicles on Steep and Graded Roads from a Moving Camera
Abstract: Accurate localization of other traffic participants is a vital task in autonomous driving systems. State-of-the-art systems employ a combination of sensing modalities such as RGB cameras and LiDARs for localizing traffic participants, but monocular localization demonstrations have been confined to plain roads. We demonstrate - to the best of our knowledge - the first results for monocular object localization and shape estimation on surfaces that are non-coplanar with the moving ego vehicle mounted with a monocular camera. We approximate road surfaces by local planar patches and use semantic cues from vehicles in the scene to initialize a local bundle-adjustment like procedure that simultaneously estimates the 3D pose and shape of the vehicles, and the orientation of the local ground plane on which the vehicle stands. We also demonstrate that our approach transfers from synthetic to real data, without any hyperparameter-/fine-tuning. We evaluate the proposed approach on the KITTI and SYNTHIA-SF benchmarks, for a variety of road plane configurations. The proposed approach significantly improves the state-of-the-art for monocular object localization on arbitrarily-shaped roads.


Title: Lightweight Collision Avoidance for Resource-Constrained Robots
Abstract: One of the safest and most reliable strategies for vehicle's collision avoidance is embedded control at low level to guarantee safe motion in all situations using on-board sensors. In this paper, we propose a novel lightweight collision avoidance strategy that can be implemented as a low level motion control to achieve safe motion while simultaneously tracking the robot's reference control input. This strategy is designed to be general so that it can be easily integrated with most control designs, with the primary target of resource-constrained robot swarms that act in real-time, dynamic environments. The main advantages of our approach are a very simple structure and low computational requirements. We verified the effectiveness of the proposed collision avoidance strategy through two simulated scenarios and with physical robots. We believe our design can be directly used in many areas, such as autonomous driving, intelligent transportation and planetary exploration.


