total paper: 234
Title: Fast Kinodynamic Bipedal Locomotion Planning with Moving Obstacles
Key Words: collision avoidance  humanoid robots  legged locomotion  motion control  pendulums  robot dynamics  robot kinematics  wheels  moving obstacles  bipedal robot  complex environments  footstep planning algorithms  footstep locations  biped dynamics  temporal duration  dynamically consistent description  PSP  collision-free route  nonholonomic wheeled robots  kinematic constraints  bipedal motion  body dynamic walking behavior  3D physics-based simulation  linear inverted pendulum model dynamics  dynamic constraints  kinodynamic bipedal locomotion planning  sampling-based kino-dynamic planning  LIPM  phase space planner  steering method  Planning  Heuristic algorithms  Robot kinematics  Legged locomotion  Collision avoidance 
Abstract: In this paper, we present a sampling-based kino-dynamic planning framework for a bipedal robot in complex environments. Unlike other footstep planning algorithms which typically plan footstep locations and the biped dynamics in separate steps, we handle both simultaneously. Three primary advantages of this approach are (1) the ability to differentiate alternate routes while selecting footstep locations based on the temporal duration of the route as determined by the Linear Inverted Pendulum Model (LIPM) dynamics, (2) the ability to perform collision checking through time so that collisions with moving obstacles are prevented without avoiding their entire trajectory, and (3) the ability to specify a minimum forward velocity for the biped. To generate a dynamically consistent description of the walking behavior, we exploit the Phase Space Planner (PSP) [1] [2]. To plan a collision-free route toward the goal, we adapt planning strategies from non-holonomic wheeled robots to gather a sequence of inputs for the PSP. This allows us to efficiently approximate dynamic and kinematic constraints on bipedal motion, to apply a sampling-based planning algorithm such as RRT or RRT*, and to use the Dubin's path [3] as the steering method to connect two points in the configuration space. The results of the algorithm are sent to a Whole Body Controller [1] to generate full body dynamic walking behavior. Our planning algorithm is tested in a 3D physics-based simulation of the humanoid robot Valkyrie.


Title: Culturally aware Planning and Execution of Robot Actions
Key Words: cultural aspects  mobile robots  path planning  robot actions  cultural group  cultural adaptation  interpersonal distance  robot plans generation  cultural preferences  CARESSES project  assistive robots  culturally aware planning  Cultural differences  Robot sensing systems  Planning  Knowledge based systems  Computer architecture  Cognition 
Abstract: The way in which humans behave, speak and interact is deeply influenced by their culture. For example, greeting is done differently in France, in Sweden or in Japan; and the average interpersonal distance changes from one cultural group to the other. In order to successfully coexist with humans, robots should also adapt their behavior to the culture, customs and manners of the persons they interact with. In this paper, we deal with an important ingredient of cultural adaptation: how to generate robot plans that respect given cultural preferences, and how to execute them in a way that is sensitive to those preferences. We present initial results in this direction in the context of the CARESSES project, a joint EU-Japan effort to build culturally competent assistive robots.


Title: Delineating boundaries of feasibility between robot designs
Key Words: decision trees  learning (artificial intelligence)  mobile robots  pattern classification  planning (artificial intelligence)  sensors  actuators  classic search methods  planning problem  actuator resources  effective robots  robot designs  delineating boundaries  domain knowledge  design space  interactive tools  interactive process  boundary subject  compact implicit representation  decision tree learning method  discriminatory features  Robot sensing systems  Planning  Actuators  Task analysis  Tools  Decision trees 
Abstract: Motivated by the need for tools to aid in the design of effective robots, we examine how to determine the role that particular sensing and actuator resources play in enabling a robot to achieve useful ends. Rather than merely asking “will this sensor suffice?” we classify general modifications to the set of sensors and actuators based on the feasibility of accomplishing given tasks using these sets. The goal is to probe the boundary between modifications that are destructive on a given planning problem, and modifications that are not. Since this boundary itself can be impractically large, classic search methods are of no avail to summarize discriminatory features on this boundary. Instead, we propose a decision tree learning method to efficiently construct a compact implicit representation of the boundary. The idea is to allow the designer to use prior knowledge to constrain the search, then use the tool to probe the boundary subject to those constraints, gaining insight into the information necessary for a robot to ensure task achievement. Ultimately we envision a interactive process where additional constraints are repeatedly included as new light is shed. We aim to pave the way for interactive tools that help the roboticist navigate the complexities of the design space. We describe an implementation of this approach along with experimental results that show that the method can construct decision trees with explanatory value. Our experiments suggest that some domain knowledge (specifically picking features that emphasize monotonicity) substantially improves running-time with only negligible reduction in accuracy.


Title: Learning Symbolic Representations for Planning with Parameterized Skills
Key Words: control engineering computing  humanoid robots  intelligent robots  learning (artificial intelligence)  manipulators  critical capability  generally intelligent robot behavior  goal-directed planning  black-box motor skills  intelligent robots  parametrized motor skills  simple discrete abstract representation  fixed plan  abstract symbolic representation  robot manipulation task  angry birds  virtual domain  Planning  Task analysis  Probabilistic logic  Intelligent robots  Birds  Computer science 
Abstract: A critical capability required for generally intelligent robot behavior is the ability to sequence motor skills to reach a goal. This requires a (typically abstract) representation that supports goal-directed planning, which raises the question of how to construct such a representation. Previous work has addressed this question in the context of simple black-box motor skills, which are insufficiently flexible to support the wide range of behavior required of intelligent robots. We now extend that work to include parametrized motor skills, where a robot must both select an action to execute and also decide how to parametrize it. We show how to construct a representation suitable for planning with parametrized motor skills, and specify conditions which are sufficient to separate the selection of motor skills from the parametrization of those skills. Our method results in a simple discrete abstract representation for planning followed by a parameter selection process that operates on a fixed plan. We first demonstrate learning this representation in a virtual domain based on Angry Birds and then learn an abstract symbolic representation for a robot manipulation task.


Title: A Multi-Position Joint Particle Filtering Method for Vehicle Localization in Urban Area
Key Words: distance measurement  image matching  mobile robots  particle filtering (numerical methods)  path planning  probability  robot vision  flexible multiposition joint particle filtering  position error  anchor point  curving roads  ego-trajectory  probabilistic filtering method  flexible road map  long range navigation  error accumulation  visual odometry  traditional visual localization methods  autonomous vehicles  robust localization  urban area  vehicle localization  dense parallel road branches  Roads  Trajectory  Filtering  Urban areas  Wheels  Simultaneous localization and mapping  Navigation 
Abstract: Robust localization is a prerequisite for autonomous vehicles. Traditional visual localization methods like visual odometry suffer error accumulation on long range navigation. In this paper, a flexible road map based probabilistic filtering method is proposed to tackle this problem. To effectively match the ego-trajectory to various curving roads in map, a new representation based on anchor point (AP) which captures the main curving points on the trajectory is presented. Based on APs of the map and trajectory, a flexible Multi-Position Joint Particle Filtering (MPJPF) framework is proposed to correct the position error. The method features the capability of adaptively estimating a series of APs jointly and only updates the estimation at situations with low uncertainty. It explicitly avoids the drawbacks of obliging to determine the current position at large uncertain situations such as dense parallel road branches. The experiments carried out on KITTI benchmark demonstrate our success.


Title: Courteous Autonomous Cars
Key Words: automobiles  road traffic  traffic engineering computing  courteous autonomous cars  driving quality  cost function  purely selfish cost  interactive drivers  autonomous car  courtesy term  robot car  human behavior  courteous robot cars  human driver behavior  Autonomous automobiles  Vehicles  Cost function  Planning  Robot kinematics  Safety 
Abstract: Typically, autonomous cars optimize for a combination of safety, efficiency, and driving quality. But as we get better at this optimization, we start seeing behavior go from too conservative to too aggressive. The car's behavior exposes the incentives we provide in its cost function. In this work, we argue for cars that are not optimizing a purely selfish cost, but also try to be courteous to other interactive drivers. We formalize courtesy as a term in the objective that measures the increase in another driver's cost induced by the autonomous car's behavior. Such a courtesy term enables the robot car to be aware of possible irrationality of the human behavior, and plan accordingly. We analyze the effect of courtesy in a variety of scenarios. We find, for example, that courteous robot cars leave more space when merging in front of a human driver. Moreover, we find that such a courtesy term can help explain real human driver behavior on the NGSIM dataset.


Title: Fire-Aware Planning of Aerial Trajectories and Ignitions
Key Words: aerospace computing  aerospace control  autonomous aerial vehicles  computer simulation  helicopters  ignition  path planning  trajectory control  wildfires  fire-aware planning  aerial trajectories  fire vectors  fire simulation  fire-aware planner  fire simulator predictions  ignition spheres  unmanned aerial system for prescribed fires  helicopter  UAS-Rx Android application  Ignition  Robots  Computational modeling  Planning  Sensors  Mathematical model  Trajectory 
Abstract: Prescribed fires can lessen wildfire severity and control invasive species, but they can also be risky and costly. Unmanned aerial systems can reduce those drawbacks by, for example, dropping ignition spheres to ignite the most hazardous areas. Existing systems, however, lack awareness of the fire vectors to operate autonomously, safely, and efficiently. In this work we address that limitation, introducing an approach that integrates a lightweight fire simulator and a planner for trajectories and ignition sphere drop waypoints. Both components are unique in that they are amenable to input from the system's sensors and the fire crew to increase fire awareness. We conducted a preliminary study that confirms that such inputs improve the accuracy of the fire simulation to counter the unpredictability of the target environment. The field study of the system showed that the fire-aware planner generated safe trajectories with effective ignitions leveraging the fire simulator predictions.


Title: Perception Based Locomotion System for a Humanoid Robot with Adaptive Footstep Compensation under Task Constraints
Key Words: adaptive control  collision avoidance  humanoid robots  interpolation  legged locomotion  path planning  task constraints  humanoid robot  adaptive footstep compensation  adaptive locomotion system  local error correction  perception based locomotion system  locomotion error  locomotion planning  point cloud  environmental measurements  plane estimation  space interpolation  collision avoidance  laser scans  Humanoid robots  Task analysis  Planning  Foot  Three-dimensional displays  Estimation 
Abstract: In order to accurately reach a target position while executing a task which imposes occlusion or constraints of the posture, a humanoid robot requires an adaptive locomotion system, which can comprehensively integrate localization, environmental mapping, global locomotion planning and local error correction. In this paper, we propose a method of constructing a perception based locomotion system for a humanoid robot. The major contribution of this paper is solving a problem of the locomotion error caused by the task constraints, by locally compensating footsteps and assessing the need for global footstep re-planning online based on environmental measurements. The proposed system provides an accurate and dense ground point cloud, called HeightField, using plane estimation and space interpolation, and obstacle point cloud for frequent collision avoidance by accumulating laser scans. This environmental perception enables a humanoid robot to plan footsteps globally even in the situation where the sight of the robot is limited and compensate footsteps while estimating landing state during locomotion online with the localization result. We evaluated the practicality of the proposed system by applying it to our humanoid robot carrying a heavy object in a construction site and confirmed that the proposed system contributed to improved locomotion abilities of a humanoid robot engaging in heavy-duty or dangerous tasks.


Title: Robotic Sewing and Knot Tying for Personalized Stent Graft Manufacturing
Key Words: closed loop systems  medical robotics  robot vision  servomechanisms  stents  surgery  textile technology  visual servoing  robotic system  stitch size planning  3D industrial sewing  successive knot  tension control  thread management  thread manipulator  stitch sizes  sewing accuracy  automated knot tying  closed-loop visual servoing control  customized robotic sewing device  3D structured object  personalized stent graft manufacturing  size 2.0 mm to 5.0 mm  Needles  Robot kinematics  Cameras  Yarn  Robot vision systems 
Abstract: This paper presents a versatile robotic system for sewing a 3D structured object. Leveraging on using a customized robotic sewing device and closed-loop visual servoing control, an all-in-one solution for sewing personalized stent graft is demonstrated. Stitch size planning and automated knot tying are proposed as two key functions of the system. By using effective stitch size planning, sub-millimetre sewing accuracy is achieved for stitch sizes ranging from 2mm to 5mm. In addition, a thread manipulator for thread management and tension control is also proposed to perform successive knot tying to secure each stitch. Detailed laboratory experiments have been performed to evaluate the proposed instruments and allied algorithms. The proposed framework can be generalised to a wide range of applications including 3D industrial sewing, as well as transferred to other clinical areas such as surgical suturing.


Title: Deep Semantic Lane Segmentation for Mapless Driving
Key Words: automobiles  feature extraction  image colour analysis  image segmentation  mobile robots  neural nets  object detection  path planning  road traffic  robot vision  deep semantic lane segmentation  autonomous driving systems  automated cars  sensor system  urban scenarios  deep neural network  lane semantics  road scene  mapless autonomous driving  street scenes  RGB images  lane detection  cityscapes dataset  Roads  Semantics  Neural networks  Image segmentation  Autonomous vehicles  Three-dimensional displays  Pipelines 
Abstract: In autonomous driving systems a strong relation to highly accurate maps is taken to be inevitable, although street scenes change frequently. However, a preferable system would be to equip the automated cars with a sensor system that is able to navigate urban scenarios without an accurate map. We present a novel pipeline using a deep neural network to detect lane semantics and topology given RGB images. On the basis of this classification, the information about the road scene can be extracted just from the sensor setup supporting mapless autonomous driving. In addition to superseding the huge effort of creating and maintaining highly accurate maps, our system reduces the need for precise localization. Using an extended Cityscapes dataset, we show accurate ego lane detection including lane semantics on challenging scenarios for autonomous driving.


Title: Closed-Loop Robot Task Planning Based on Referring Expressions
Key Words: adaptive control  closed loop systems  mobile robots  path planning  planning (artificial intelligence)  user interfaces  fetch-and-carry tasks  autonomous robots accessibility  user friendly  closed-loop robot task planning  complex task  automated planning  robotic systems  domain-independent planning system  goal formulation  referring expressions  adaptive control interface  manipulable objects  dynamic environments  Task analysis  Planning  Robots  Natural languages  Graphical user interfaces  Glass 
Abstract: Increasing the accessibility of autonomous robots also for inexperienced users requires user-friendly and high-level control opportunities of robotic systems. While automated planning is able to decompose a complex task into a sequence of steps which reaches an intended goal, it is difficult to formulate such a goal without knowing the internals of the planning system and the exact capabilities of the robot. This becomes even more important in dynamic environments in which manipulable objects are subject to change. In this paper, we present an adaptive control interface which allows users to specify goals based on an internal world model by incrementally building referring expressions to the objects in the world. We consider fetch-and-carry tasks and automatically deduce potential high-level goals from the world model to make them available to the user. Based on its perceptions our system can react to changes in the environment by adapting the goal formulation within the domain-independent planning system.


Title: Laser-Based Reactive Navigation for Multirotor Aerial Robots using Deep Reinforcement Learning
Key Words: autonomous aerial vehicles  collision avoidance  learning (artificial intelligence)  mobile robots  traditional motion planning algorithms  precise maps  fast reactive navigation algorithm  multirotor aerial robots  2D-laser range measurements  Gazebo-based simulation scenario  artificial potential field formulation  laser-based reactive navigation  collision avoidance capabilities  reactive navigation behavior  deep reinforcement learning  dynamic obstacles  static obstacles  Navigation  Robots  Unmanned aerial vehicles  Lasers  Heuristic algorithms  Reinforcement learning  Planning 
Abstract: Navigation in unknown indoor environments with fast collision avoidance capabilities is an ongoing research topic. Traditional motion planning algorithms rely on precise maps of the environment, where re-adapting a generated path can be highly demanding in terms of computational cost. In this paper, we present a fast reactive navigation algorithm using Deep Reinforcement Learning applied to multi rotor aerial robots. Taking as input the 2D-laser range measurements and the relative position of the aerial robot with respect to the desired goal, the proposed algorithm is successfully trained in a Gazebo-based simulation scenario by adopting an artificial potential field formulation. A thorough evaluation of the trained agent has been carried out both in simulated and real indoor scenarios, showing the appropriate reactive navigation behavior of the agent in the presence of static and dynamic obstacles.


Title: Drone Detection Using Depth Maps
Key Words: autonomous aerial vehicles  collision avoidance  image sensors  learning (artificial intelligence)  mobile robots  object detection  static obstacle avoidance  dynamic objects  field-of-view requirements  on-board small UAVs  relative altitude  azimuth  depth map-based approach  collision avoidance  depth map sequences  unmanned aerial vehicle navigation  collision-free path planning  FOV  deep learning-based drone detection model  sensing technologies  3D localization  Drones  Cameras  Three-dimensional displays  Atmospheric modeling  Sensors  Neural networks  Two dimensional displays 
Abstract: Obstacle avoidance is a key feature for safe Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV) navigation. While solutions have been proposed for static obstacle avoidance, systems enabling avoidance of dynamic objects, such as drones, are hard to implement due to the detection range and field-of-view (FOV) requirements, as well as the constraints for integrating such systems on-board small UAVs. In this work, a dataset of 6k synthetic depth maps of drones has been generated and used to train a state-of-the-art deep learning-based drone detection model. While many sensing technologies can only provide relative altitude and azimuth of an obstacle, our depth map-based approach enables full 3D localization of the obstacle. This is extremely useful for collision avoidance, as 3D localization of detected drones is key to perform efficient collision-free path planning. The proposed detection technique has been validated in several real depth map sequences, with multiple types of drones flying at up to 2 m/s, achieving an average precision of 98.7 %, an average recall of 74.7 % and a record detection range of 9.5 meters.


Title: Compact & Comprehensive Canonical Appearances Discovered Autonomously
Key Words: decision making  image representation  image sensors  learning (artificial intelligence)  mobile robots  path planning  robot vision  exploration approach  autonomous ground robot  depth sensor  bubble space representation  exploration path length  topological mapping  canonical appearances  appearance-based learning  Robot sensing systems  Decision making  Robot kinematics  Cognition  Lasers  Measurement 
Abstract: This paper presents an exploration approach for discovering canonical appearances in unknown environments using an autonomous ground robot equipped with a depth sensor. This approach is based on the previously proposed two-stage algorithm that alternates between local and global decision making for efficient topological mapping based on bubble space representation. Differing from it, the approach aims to identify vantage viewpoints with characterizing views for subsequent appearance-based learning as well as achieving complete coverage. This is demonstrated by a series of experiments using an outdoor benchmark data set including a comparative study with evaluation metrics including the exploration path length and number of canonical appearances discovered.


Title: Deep Learning for Exploration and Recovery of Uncharted and Dynamic Targets from UAV-like Vision
Key Words: autonomous aerial vehicles  convolutional neural nets  image classification  learning (artificial intelligence)  mobile robots  path planning  probability  random processes  robot vision  target tracking  online search tasks  multitarget environments  dynamic targets  UAV-like vision  deep learning  dynamic search  strategic explorational agency  single deep network  navigational actions  dual-stream classification paradigm  sensory processing  agent location  static evolutions  dynamic evolutions  probabilistic placement  fully random target walks  herd-inspired behaviours  dual-stream architecture  unmanned aerial vehicle  convolutional neural network  multitarget behaviour classes  optimal navigational decision samples  long term map memory  Navigation  Robot sensing systems  Task analysis  History  Visualization  Vehicle dynamics  Reinforcement learning 
Abstract: This paper discusses deep learning for solving static and dynamic search and recovery tasks - such as the retrieval of all instances of actively moving targets - based on partial-view Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV)-like sensing. In particular, we demonstrate that abstracted tactic and strategic explorational agency can be implemented effectively via a single deep network that optimises in unity: the mapping of sensory inputs and positional history towards navigational actions. We propose a dual-stream classification paradigm that integrates one Convolutional Neural Network (CNN) for sensory processing with a second one for interpreting an evolving longterm map memory. In order to learn effective search behaviours given agent location and agent-centric sensory inputs, we train this design against 400k+ optimal navigational decision samples from each set of static and dynamic evolutions for different multi-target behaviour classes. We quantify recovery performance across an extensive range of scenarios; including probabilistic placement and dynamics, as well as fully random target walks and herd-inspired behaviours. Detailed results comparisons show that our design can outperform naive, independent stream and off-the-shelf DRQN solutions. We conclude that the proposed dual-stream architecture can provide a unified, rationally motivated and effective architecture for solving online search tasks in dynamic, multi-target environments. With this paper we publish3 key source code and associated models.


Title: DS-SLAM: A Semantic Visual SLAM towards Dynamic Environments
Key Words: mobile robots  object detection  path planning  robot vision  SLAM (robots)  high-dynamic environments  ORB-SLAM2  dense semantic octo-tree map  dynamic objects  DS-SLAM combines semantic segmentation network  dense semantic map creation  local mapping  robust semantic visual SLAM  impressed SLAM systems  Semantics  Simultaneous localization and mapping  Image segmentation  Feature extraction  Heuristic algorithms  Three-dimensional displays  Optical flow 
Abstract: Simultaneous Localization and Mapping (SLAM) is considered to be a fundamental capability for intelligent mobile robots. Over the past decades, many impressed SLAM systems have been developed and achieved good performance under certain circumstances. However, some problems are still not well solved, for example, how to tackle the moving objects in the dynamic environments, how to make the robots truly understand the surroundings and accomplish advanced tasks. In this paper, a robust semantic visual SLAM towards dynamic environments named DS-SLAM is proposed. Five threads run in parallel in DS-SLAM: tracking, semantic segmentation, local mapping, loop closing and dense semantic map creation. DS-SLAM combines semantic segmentation network with moving consistency check method to reduce the impact of dynamic objects, and thus the localization accuracy is highly improved in dynamic environments. Meanwhile, a dense semantic octo-tree map is produced, which could be employed for high-level tasks. We conduct experiments both on TUM RGB-D dataset and in real-world environment. The results demonstrate the absolute trajectory accuracy in DS-SLAM can be improved one order of magnitude compared with ORB-SLAM2. It is one of the state-of-the-art SLAM systems in high-dynamic environments.


Title: HMAPs - Hybrid Height- Voxel Maps for Environment Representation
Key Words: mobile robots  optical radar  path planning  robot vision  SLAM (robots)  2.5D representation  Microsoft Kinect One  SLAM approach  complex elements  Velodyne VLP-16 LiDAR  updated grid representation  complex environments  reliable method  occupied space  free space  HVoxel  height-voxel elements  3D point-clouds  mobile robot  grid-based mapping approach  environment representation  hybrid height- voxel maps  HMAP  Two dimensional displays  Three-dimensional displays  Simultaneous localization and mapping  Pipelines  Ray tracing  Planning  Indexing 
Abstract: This paper presents a hybrid 3D-like grid-based mapping approach, that we called HMAP, used as a reliable and efficient 3D representation of the environment surrounding a mobile robot. Considering 3D point-clouds as input data, the proposed mapping approach addresses the representation of height-voxel (HVoxel) elements inside the HMAP, where free and occupied space is modeled through HVoxels, resulting in a reliable method for 3D representation. The proposed method corrects some of the problems inherent to the representation of complex environments based on 2D and 2.5D representations, while keeping an updated grid representation. Additionally, we also propose a complete pipeline for SLAM based on HMAPs. Indoor and outdoor experiments were carried out to validate the proposed representation using data from a Microsoft Kinect One (indoor) and a Velodyne VLP-16 LiDAR (outdoor). The obtained results show that HMAPs can provide a more detailed view of complex elements in a scene when compared to a classic 2.5D representation. Moreover, validation of the proposed SLAM approach was carried out in an outdoor dataset with promising results, which lay a foundation for further research in the topic.


Title: Towards Automatic 3D Shape Instantiation for Deployed Stent Grafts: 2D Multiple-class and Class-imbalance Marker Segmentation with Equally-weighted Focal U-Net
Key Words: blood vessels  cardiovascular system  image registration  image segmentation  medical image processing  mobile robots  path planning  stents  focal loss function  fluoroscopy projection  robot-assisted fenestrated endovascular aortic repair  automatic 3D shape instantiation  focal u-net  multiple class marker segmentation  multiple class marker center determination  robust perspective-S-point method  tensorflow codes  mean intersection over union  weighted u-net  network architecture  graft gap interpolation  stent graft  semiautomatic 3D shape instantiation method  FEVAR  class-imbalance marker segmentation  initial marker segmentation  fluoroscopy projections  Image segmentation  Shape  Three-dimensional displays  Aneurysm  Training  Two dimensional displays  Testing 
Abstract: Robot-assisted Fenestrated Endovascular Aortic Repair (FEVAR) is currently navigated by 2D fluoroscopy which is insufficiently informative. Previously, a semi-automatic 3D shape instantiation method was developed to instantiate the 3D shape of a main, deployed, and fenestrated stent graft from a single fluoroscopy projection in real-time, which could help 3D FEVAR navigation and robotic path planning. This proposed semi-automatic method was based on the Robust Perspective-S-Point (RP5P) method, graft gap interpolation and semiautomatic multiple-class marker center determination. In this paper, an automatic 3D shape instantiation could be achieved by automatic multiple-class marker segmentation and hence automatic multiple-class marker center determination. Firstly, the markers were designed into five different shapes. Then, Equally-weighted Focal U-Net was proposed to segment the fluoroscopy projections of customized markers into five classes and hence to determine the marker centers. The proposed Equally-weighted Focal U-Net utilized U-Net as the network architecture, equally-weighted loss function for initial marker segmentation, and then equally-weighted focal loss function for improving the initial marker segmentation. This proposed network outperformed traditional Weighted U-Net on the class-imbalance segmentation in this paper with reducing one hyperparameter - the weight. An overall mean Intersection over Union (mIoU) of 0.6943 was achieved on 78 testing images, where 81.01 % markers were segmented with a center position error <; 1.6mm. Comparable accuracy of 3D shape instantiation was also achieved and stated. The data, trained models and TensorFlow codes are available on-line.


Title: Evolutionary Motion Control Optimization in Physical Human-Robot Interaction
Key Words: biomedical ultrasonics  evolutionary computation  force control  human-robot interaction  medical robotics  motion control  optimisation  phantoms  trajectory control  evolutionary motion control optimization  medical freehand ultrasound  trajectory planning  optimal trajectories  human leg phantom  physical human-robot interaction  online tuning  collaborative robot  medical ultrasound motion  parallel force-impedance control  differential evolution  pHRI  mean absolute error  Ultrasonic imaging  Task analysis  Tuning  Legged locomotion  Force  Robot kinematics 
Abstract: Given that the success of an interaction task depends on the capability of the robot system to handle physical contact with its environment, pure motion control is often insufficient. This is especially true in the context of medical freehand ultrasound where the human body is a deformable surface and an unstructured environment, representing both a safety concern and a challenge for trajectory planning and control. The systematic tuning of practical high degree-of-freedom physical human-robot interaction (pHRI) tasks is not trivial and there are many parameters to be tuned. While traditional tuning is generally performed ad hoc and requires knowledge of the robot and environment dynamics, we propose a simple and effective online tuning framework using differential evolution (DE) to optimize the motion parameters for parallel force/impedance control in a pHRI and medical ultrasound motion application. Through real-world experiments with a KUKA LBR iiwa 7 R800 collaborative robot, the DE framework tuned motion control for optimal and safe trajectories along a human leg phantom. The optimization process was able to successfully reduce the mean absolute error of the motion contact force to 0.537 N through the evolution of eight motion control parameters.


Title: Human-Robot Cooperative Object Manipulation with Contact Changes
Key Words: cooperative systems  human-robot interaction  interactive systems  manipulators  mobile robots  path planning  physical interaction system  bi-manual physical cooperation  force interaction cues  interactive search-based planning  online trajectory  motion generation  mixed initiative collaboration strategy  human-robot cooperative object manipulation  human-robot interaction  bi-manual mobile robot  Robot sensing systems  Task analysis  Planning  Robot kinematics  Trajectory  Synchronization 
Abstract: This paper presents a system for cooperatively manipulating large objects between a human and a robot. This physical interaction system is designed to handle, transport, or manipulate large objects of different shapes in cooperation with a human. Unique points are the bi-manual physical cooperation, the sequential characteristic of the cooperation including contact changes, and a novel architecture combining force interaction cues, interactive search-based planning, and online trajectory and motion generation. The resulting system implements a mixed initiative collaboration strategy, deferring to the human when his intentions are unclear, and driving the task once understood. This results in an easy and intuitive human-robot interaction. It is evaluated in simulations and on a bi-manual mobile robot with 32 degrees of freedom.


Title: From Human Physical Interaction To Online Motion Adaptation Using Parameterized Dynamical Systems
Key Words: adaptive control  control engineering computing  human-robot interaction  manipulator dynamics  motion control  path planning  trajectory control  parameterized time-independent dynamical systems  motion flexibility  motion generation  impedance-controlled robots  adaptive motion planning approach  parameterized dynamical systems  online motion adaptation  human physical interaction  Task analysis  Trajectory  Impedance  Service robots  Convergence  Planning 
Abstract: In this work, we present an adaptive motion planning approach for impedance-controlled robots to modify their tasks based on human physical interactions. We use a class of parameterized time-independent dynamical systems for motion generation where the modulation of such parameters allows for motion flexibility. To adapt to human interactions, we update the parameters of our dynamical system in order to reduce the tracking error (i.e., between the desired trajectory generated by the dynamical system and the real trajectory influenced by the human interaction). We provide analytical analysis and several simulations of our method. Finally, we investigate our approach through real world experiments with a 7-DOF KUKA LWR 4+ robot performing tasks such as polishing and pick-and-place.


Title: Underwater Robot Navigation for Maintenance and Inspection of Flooded Mine Shafts
Key Words: coal  floods  inspection  maintenance engineering  mining  mobile robots  navigation  path planning  sensors  shafts  underwater vehicles  flooded shafts  EU project STAMS  autonomous underwater robotic system  periodic monitoring  underwater robot navigation  flooded mine shafts inspection  flooded mine shafts maintenance  sensor information  Robot sensing systems  Shafts  Three-dimensional displays  Sonar  Navigation  Visual odometry 
Abstract: The maintenance and inspection of the flooded shafts, specially coal ones, is an important environmental problem. There are thousands of shafts of this type in Europe with the danger of pollution, flood and collapse. This paper presents some of the main ongoing works of the EU project STAMS that develop an autonomous underwater robotic system for periodic monitoring of flooded shafts in hazardous and complex conditions. The accurate navigation is very cluttered at 1.000 m depth conditions, where minimum visibility and unexpected obstacles are some of the difficulties to overcome. We are going beyond classical navigation approaches using only few sensor information. Another innovation is the installation of Reference Points (RPs) in the shaft's walls by the robot using a special fixation mechanism. The specially designed cases of the RPs allow to house specific sensors and help in the navigation, and will be used in periodic monitoring and assessment of the mine shafts. The positioning and attachment of these RPs is another contribution of this paper.


Title: Deep Q-Learning for Dry Stacking Irregular Objects
Key Words: learning (artificial intelligence)  manipulators  motion control  neurocontrollers  state-action pairs  Q-network  robot arm  generated stacking plans  physical constraints  geometric constraints  action space  deep neural network  learned Q-function  reinforcement learning algorithm  local geometric considerations  reinforcement learning approach  dry stacking irregular objects  deep Q-learning  Stacking  Buildings  Robots  Planning  Shape  Stability analysis  Reinforcement learning 
Abstract: We propose a reinforcement learning approach for automatically building dry stacked (i.e. no mortar) structures with irregular objects. Stacking irregular objects is a challenging problem since each assembly action can be drawn from a continuous space of poses for an object, and several local geometric and physical considerations strongly affect the stability. To tackle this challenge, we concentrate on a simplified 2D version of the problem. We present a reinforcement learning algorithm based on deep Q-learning, where the learned Q-function, which maps state-action pairs into expected long-term rewards, is represented by a deep neural network. As the action space is continuous the Q-network is trained by sampling a finite number of actions that consider both geometric and physical constraints to approximate the target Q-values, Experiments show that the proposed method outperforms previous heuristics-based planning, leading to super construction with objects containing a significant amount of variations. We validate the generated stacking plans by executing them using a robot arm and manufactured, irregular objects.


Title: Finding safe 3D robot grasps through efficient haptic exploration with unscented Bayesian optimization and collision penalty
Key Words: approximation theory  Bayes methods  collision avoidance  grippers  haptic interfaces  Kalman filters  mobile robots  optimisation  path planning  unscented Bayesian optimization  novel collision penalty  exploration steps  safe 3D robot grasps  efficient haptic exploration  robust grasping  accurate models  known objects  approximate models  familiar objects  partial point clouds  unknown objects  sensing inaccuracies  local exploration  grasp execution  3D haptic exploration strategy  Grasping  Three-dimensional displays  Optimization  Robot sensing systems  Bayes methods 
Abstract: Robust grasping is a major, and still unsolved, problem in robotics. Information about the 3D shape of an object can be obtained either from prior knowledge (e.g., accurate models of known objects or approximate models of familiar objects) or real-time sensing (e.g., partial point clouds of unknown objects) and can be used to identify good potential grasps. However, due to modeling and sensing inaccuracies, local exploration is often needed to refine such grasps and successfully apply them in the real world. The recently proposed unscented Bayesian optimization technique can make such exploration safer by selecting grasps that are robust to uncertainty in the input space (e.g., inaccuracies in the grasp execution). Extending our previous work on 2D optimization, in this paper we propose a 3D haptic exploration strategy that combines unscented Bayesian optimization with a novel collision penalty heuristic to find safe grasps in a very efficient way: while by augmenting the search-space to 3D we are able to find better grasps, the collision penalty heuristic allows us to do so without increasing the number of exploration steps.


Title: Indoor Mapping and Localization for Pedestrians using Opportunistic Sensing with Smartphones
Key Words: Bayes methods  Gaussian processes  indoor radio  mobile computing  mobile robots  optimisation  particle filtering (numerical methods)  path planning  radionavigation  regression analysis  SLAM (robots)  smart phones  wireless LAN  Gaussian Processes Regression  real-time localization  GPR variance map  pseudowall constraints  magnetic fields  globally consistent trajectories  opportunistic magnetic headings  WiFi signal similarity validation  magnetic sequence matching  loop-closure constraints  pedestrian dead-reckoning  motion constraints  GraphSLAM front-end  signal maps  Bayesian filtering-based online localization  GraphSLAM-based offline mapping  ambient indoor environments  low-cost indoor mapping  indoor localization  smartphone  size 2.3 m  size 3.41 m  Wireless fidelity  Trajectory  Smart phones  Simultaneous localization and mapping  Ground penetrating radar  Legged locomotion 
Abstract: Indoor localization for pedestrians has gained increasing popularity among the rich body of literature for the last decade. In this paper, a low-cost indoor mapping and localization solution is proposed using the opportunistic signals from ambient indoor environments with a smartphone. It is composed of GraphSLAM-based offline mapping and Bayesian filtering-based online localization using generated signal maps. The GraphSLAM front-end is constructed by motion constraints from pedestrian dead-reckoning (PDR), loop-closure constraints identified by magnetic sequence matching with WiFi signal similarity validation, and observation constraints from opportunistic magnetic headings after error rejection. Globally consistent trajectories are created by graph optimization, after which signal maps (e.g., WiFi, magnetic fields, lights) are generated by Gaussian Processes Regression (GPR) for later localization. We propose to use the pseudo-wall constraints from the GPR variance map of magnetic fields and the lights measurements as observations for particle filtering. The proposed method is evaluated on several datasets collected from both the in-compass office buildings and outside public areas. Real-time localization is demonstrated on a smartphone in an office building covering 2000 square meters with the 50- and 90-percentile accuracies being 2.30 m and 3.41 m, respectively.


Title: Navigation without localisation: reliable teach and repeat based on the convergence theorem
Key Words: calibration  cameras  mobile robots  navigation  path planning  robot vision  velocity control  mobile robot  taught path  learned velocities  camera information  position error model  mathematical proof  camera calibration  navigation system  mathematical model  explicit localisation  teach-and-repeat navigation scenarios  teach-and-repeat visual navigation  Robot kinematics  Navigation  Cameras  Robot vision systems  Simultaneous localization and mapping  Feature extraction 
Abstract: We present a novel concept for teach-and-repeat visual navigation. The proposed concept is based on a mathematical model, which indicates that in teach-and-repeat navigation scenarios, mobile robots do not need to perform explicit localisation. Rather than that, a mobile robot which repeats a previously taught path can simply “replay” the learned velocities, while using its camera information only to correct its heading relative to the intended path. To support our claim, we establish a position error model of a robot, which traverses a taught path by only correcting its heading. Then, we outline a mathematical proof which shows that this position error does not diverge over time. Based on the insights from the model, we present a simple monocular teach-and-repeat navigation method. The method is computationally efficient, it does not require camera calibration, and it can learn and autonomously traverse arbitrarily-shaped paths. In a series of experiments, we demonstrate that the method can reliably guide mobile robots in realistic indoor and outdoor conditions, and can cope with imperfect odometry, landmark deficiency, illumination variations and naturally-occurring environment changes. Furthermore, we provide the navigation system and the datasets gathered at www.github.com/gestom/stroll_bearnav.


Title: Quadruped Locomotion Control Based on Two Bipeds Jointly Carrying Model
Key Words: gait analysis  legged locomotion  motion control  robot dynamics  quadruped locomotion control  novel gait planning  control framework  quadruped robot  rear ends  joint torques  support legs  bipedal sub-robots  quadruped body forces  bipedal torso forces  operating modes  virtual forces  support leg torques  gait generators  gait parameters  hind legs  Legged locomotion  Robot kinematics  Torso  Radio frequency  Hip  Mathematical model 
Abstract: A novel gait planning and control framework was developed for quadruped locomotion of a robot. It modeled the quadruped robot as two bipeds carrying the body from the front and rear ends. We first mapped the relationship between the joint torques of support legs and the torso forces of the bipedal sub-robots. Then the equations describing the relationship between the quadruped body forces and the bipedal torso forces under various operating modes of the robot were deduced and solved. Virtual forces were generated on the quadruped body to manipulate its velocity and orientation. Then these virtual forces were distributed to the front and hind sub-robots to generate support leg torques. The state machines and gait generators for the two bipedal sub-robots were designed individually, resulting in the decoupling of the gait parameters in the front legs and hind legs. The effectiveness of the controller was validated through dynamic simulations.


Title: Cost of Transport Estimation for Legged Robot Based on Terrain Features Inference from Aerial Scan
Key Words: feature extraction  inference mechanisms  learning (artificial intelligence)  legged locomotion  motion control  path planning  robot vision  terrain mapping  multilegged robot  crawled terrain  hexapod robot  legged robot  terrain features inference  aerial scan  robot locomotion  incremental learning  geometrical data  visual data  terrain learning  extraterrestrial missions  robot deployment  robot motion planning  cost of transport estimation  terrain descriptors  mechanical properties  Robots  Feature extraction  Image color analysis  Estimation  Unmanned aerial vehicles  Three-dimensional displays  Visualization 
Abstract: The effectiveness of the robot locomotion can be measured using the cost of transport (CoT) which represents the amount of energy that is needed for traversing from one place to another. Terrains excerpt different mechanical properties when crawled by a multi-legged robot, and thus different values of the CoT. It is therefore desirable to estimate the CoT in advance and plan the robot motion accordingly. However, the CoT might not be known prior the robot deployment, e.g., in extraterrestrial missions; hence, a robot has to learn different terrains as it crawls through the environment incrementally. In this work, we focus on estimating the CoT from visual and geometrical data of the crawled terrain. A thorough analysis of different terrain descriptors within the context of incremental learning is presented to select the best performing approach. We report on the achieved results and experimental verification of the selected approaches with a real hexapod robot crawling over six different terrains.


Title: A Soft Robot to Navigate the Lumens of the Body Using Undulatory Locomotion Generated by a Rotating Magnetic Dipole Field
Key Words: blood vessels  magnetic actuators  magnetic fields  magnetic sensors  medical robotics  microrobots  mobile robots  motion control  numerical analysis  path planning  permanent magnets  rotating magnetic dipole field  soft-robotic actuation concept  mesoscale medical robot  natural lumens  blood vessels  embedded permanent magnets  magnetic polarity  rotating dipole magnetic field  traveling-wave undulatory motion  soft-actuation technology  nonuniform dipole fields  undulatory locomotion  uniform dipole fields  diagnostic context  therapeutic context  numerical simulation  Coils  Magnetic resonance imaging  Magnetic separation  Soft robotics  Permanent magnets  Magnetic moments 
Abstract: In this paper, we describe a soft-robotic actuation concept to enable a mesoscale medical robot to navigate the natural lumens of the body, such as blood vessels and intestines. The concept comprises a simple soft robot with two embedded permanent magnets with alternating magnetic polarity, and a rotating (nonuniform) dipole magnetic field that is swept over the robot, resulting in a traveling-wave undulatory motion that propels the robot forward and backward. This soft-actuation technology can be fabricated in a wide range of sizes due to its simplicity, and has the potential to be applied in a variety of diagnostic and therapeutic contexts. We conduct experiments and numerical simulations to verify the movement of the soft robot. Then, we confirm the benefits of using nonuniform dipole fields over using uniform fields, as well as the benefits of alternating the polarity of the magnets embedded in the device.


Title: A Robot System for Automated Wound Filling with Jetted Materials
Key Words: computer vision  control engineering computing  diseases  medical robotics  nozzles  path planning  patient treatment  proteins  skin  surgery  tissue engineering  wounds  robot system  automated wound filling  jetted materials  skin surface wounds  chronic illness  tissue engineering  3D machine vision system  skin wound  3D point set  path planning algorithm  robot manipulator  ink-jet nozzle  biomaterials  cell growth promoters  Wounds  Three-dimensional displays  Robot kinematics  Cameras  Machine vision  Manuals 
Abstract: Skin surface wounds due to burns, surgeries and chronic illness affect millions of people worldwide. Tissue engineering has become an increasingly popular treatment, but it is a highly manual process. Increasing the automation in tissue engineering could increase the rate of treatment for patients and improve outcomes. We present an initial investigation into an automated in-situ treatment. In our proposed method, a 3D machine vision system detects a skin wound to be treated and then determines the 3D point set corresponding to the wound. The 3D point set is then passed to path planning algorithm for a robot manipulator to move an ink-jet nozzle over the wound and fill the cavity with quick-curing/gelling fluids such collagen and other biomaterials and cell growth promoters. This paper details initial results and experimental validation of each of the proposed steps.


Title: State Estimation for MRI-Actuated Cathers via Catadioptric Stereo Camera
Key Words: biomedical MRI  cameras  catheters  image segmentation  medical robotics  particle filtering (numerical methods)  particle filter  catadioptric camera system  tracking algorithm  MRI-actuated cathers  catadioptric stereo camera  MRI-actuated catheter  novel robotic catheter system  MR tracking system  alternative catheter tracking method  Catheters  Cameras  Actuators  Tracking  Atmospheric measurements  Particle measurements  Mirrors 
Abstract: An MRI-actuated catheter is a novel robotic catheter system that utilizes the MR scanner for both remote steering and catheter tracking. In order to develop the mathematical model and the planning algorithm of the catheter in parallel to the MR tracking system, an alternative catheter tracking method is needed. This paper presents a catheter tracking algorithm based on the particle filter and the catadioptric camera system. The motion model of the particle filter is based on the quasi-static kinematics of the catheter. The measurement model calculates the weights of the particles according to the normalized crosscorrelation of the segmented image from camera and a virtual rendering of the catheter. The efficacy of the tracking algorithm is demonstrates via experimental results.


Title: Bayesian-inferred Flexible Path Generation in Human-Robot Collaborative Networks
Key Words: Bayes methods  computational geometry  human-robot interaction  inference mechanisms  mobile robots  optimisation  path planning  position control  probability  stochastic processes  flexible path human-robot collaborative network  weighted Euclidean distance  potentially optimal tasks  single task  optimal trajectory  task selection  human intent  Bayesian inference  human-robot collaborative networks  Bayesian-inferred flexible path generation  highly impulsive humans  Task analysis  Trajectory  Robot kinematics  Bayes methods  Collaboration  Cost function 
Abstract: This paper presents a novel method for generating the trajectory of a robot assisting a human in servicing a set of tasks embedded in a convex 2-D domain. This method makes use of Bayesian inference to predict human intent in task selection. Rather than following optimal trajectory towards a single task, the robot computes a set of potentially optimal tasks each weighted by the human's posterior probability and superimposes them into a cost function that is designed to minimize the weighted Euclidean distance relative to set. The effect is a flexible path human-robot collaborative network that is shown in simulation to complete all tasks in a given domain in less time than existing methods for a certain class of highly impulsive humans, i.e., humans that tend to randomly switch tasks at times generated by a Poisson counting process. The algorithm is also illustrated through an experimental demonstration.


Title: Coverage Optimization with Non-Actuated, Floating Mobile Sensors using Iterative Trajectory Planning in Marine Flow Fields
Key Words: oceanographic equipment  oceanographic techniques  passive nodes  coverage optimization  mobile sensors  iterative trajectory planning  marine flow fields  spatial coverage problem  passive floating sensors  iterative measurement  modeling scheme  initial sample point  survey area  ambient surface currents  computational tool  autonomous marine surveying system  ocean drifters  spatial distribution  ocean flow fields  Trajectory  Sensors  Oceans  Planning  Sea measurements  Computational modeling  Robots 
Abstract: This paper considers a spatial coverage problem in which a network of passive floating sensors is used to collect samples in a body of water. We employ an iterative measurement and modeling scheme to incrementally deploy sensors so as to achieve spatial coverage, despite only controlling the initial sample point. Once deployed, sensors are moved about a survey area by ambient surface currents. We demonstrate our results in simulation on 40 different ocean flow fields and compare against several baselines. This work provides a computational tool for scientists seeking a low-cost, autonomous marine surveying system. Although in this paper, we concentrate on ocean drifters, our approach can be extended to other domains where a spatial distribution of passive nodes in a flow field can be modeled.


Title: A Deformable Spiral Based Algorithm to Smooth Coverage Path Planning for Marine Growth Removal
Key Words: autonomous underwater vehicles  bridges (structures)  inspection  multi-robot systems  path planning  underwater structures  DSCPP  smooth paths  spiral path  popular boustrophedon-based coverage approach  intervention autonomous underwater vehicle  deformable spiral coverage path planning algorithm  smooth coverage path planning  deformable spiral-based algorithm  Spirals  Cleaning  Path planning  Fatigue  Underwater structures  Manipulators  Poles and towers 
Abstract: Marine growths that flourish on the surfaces of underwater structures, such as bridge pylons, make the inspection and maintenance of these structures challenging. A robotic solution, using an Intervention Autonomous Underwater Vehicle (I-AUV), is developed for removing marine growth. This paper presents a Deformable Spiral Coverage Path Planning (DSCPP) algorithm for marine growth removal. DSCPP generates smooth paths to prevent damage to the surfaces of the structures and to avoid frequent or aggressive decelerations and accelerations due to sharp turns. DSCPP generates a spiral path within a circle and analytically maps the path to a minimum bounding rectangle which encompasses an area of a surface with marine growth. It aims to achieve a spiral path with minimal length while preventing missed areas of coverage. Several case studies are presented to validate the algorithm. Comparison results show that DSCPP outperforms the popular boustrophedon-based coverage approach when considering the requirements for the application under consideration.


Title: Dexterous Manipulation Graphs
Key Words: dexterous manipulators  end effectors  graph theory  grippers  Dexterous Manipulation graphs  in-hand manipulation  end-effector  dual arm robot  end pose  parallel grippers  Grippers  End effectors  Planning  Dynamics  Shape 
Abstract: We propose the Dexterous Manipulation Graph as a tool to address in-hand manipulation and reposition an object inside a robot's end-effector. This graph is used to plan a sequence of manipulation primitives so to bring the object to the desired end pose. This sequence of primitives is translated into motions of the robot to move the object held by the end-effector. We use a dual arm robot with parallel grippers to test our method on a real system and show successful planning and execution of in-hand manipulation.


Title: Virtual Occupancy Grid Map for Submap-based Pose Graph SLAM and Planning in 3D Environments
Key Words: graph theory  image reconstruction  mobile robots  path planning  pose estimation  robot vision  SLAM (robots)  3D scene reconstructions  virtual occupancy grid map  mobile robots  VOG-map  submap-based pose graph SLAM  underwater SLAM system  path planning  free space information  Simultaneous localization and mapping  Three-dimensional displays  Path planning  Robot kinematics  Casting 
Abstract: In this paper, we propose a mapping approach that constructs a globally deformable virtual occupancy grid map (VOG-map) based on local submaps. Such a representation allows pose graph SLAM systems to correct globally accumulated drift via loop closures while maintaining free space information for the purpose of path planning. We demonstrate use of such a representation for implementing an underwater SLAM system in which the robot actively plans paths to generate accurate 3D scene reconstructions. We evaluate performance on simulated as well as real-world experiments. Our work furthers capabilities of mobile robots actively mapping and exploring unstructured, three dimensional environments.


Title: Data-Driven Discrete Planning for Targeted Hopping of Compliantly Actuated Robotic Legs
Key Words: actuators  elasticity  legged locomotion  mobile robots  motion control  path planning  robot dynamics  planar hopping leg prototype validate  hopping trials  data-driven manner  serial elastic actuation  planar leg  discrete-time planning problem  simple controller structure  time-continuous trajectories  considerable real-time problems  fast locomotion  motion planning  compliantly actuated robotic legs  targeted hopping  data-driven discrete planning  Legged locomotion  Planning  Springs  Switches  Hardware 
Abstract: Motion planning for fast locomotion of compliantly actuated robotic legs is generally considered to be a challenging issue, posing considerable real-time problems. This is at least the case if time-continuous trajectories need to be generated online. In this paper we take advantage of a simple controller structure, which reduces the motion planning to a discrete-time planning problem, in which only a small set of input parameters need to be determined for each step. We show that for a planar leg with serial elastic actuation, hopping on a ground with stairs of irregular length and height can be planned online, based on a parameter mapping which has been learned in a data-driven manner by performing hopping trials with an adaptive exploration algorithm to evenly sample the parameter space. Experiments on a planar hopping leg prototype validate the approach.


Title: Quadrupedal walking motion and footstep placement through Linear Model Predictive Control
Key Words: convex programming  gait analysis  humanoid robots  legged locomotion  motion control  predictive control  robot dynamics  linear model predictive control framework  quadrupedal walking motion  auxiliary states  bipedal locomotion  hybrid wheeled-legged quadruped  humanoid upper-body  joint optimization problem  nonconvex programming framework  quadrupedal robot  automatic footstep placement  walking gait  CENTAURO robot  control inputs  linear constraints  approximate QP  Legged locomotion  Robot kinematics  Optimization  Stability analysis  Planning 
Abstract: The present work addresses the generation of a walking gait with automatic footstep placement for a quadrupedal robot, within a Linear Model Predictive Control framework. Existing work has shown how this is only possible within a non-convex programming framework, finding a solution of which is well-known to be very hard. We propose a way to formulate the joint optimization problem as an approximate QP with linear constraints, whose global optimum can be quickly found with off-the-shelf solvers. More specifically, this is done by introducing auxiliary states and control inputs, each of which is subject to linear constraints that are inspired from the literature on bipedal locomotion. Finally, we validate our method on the CENTAURO robot, a hybrid wheeled-legged quadruped with a humanoid upper-body.


Title: People as Sensors: Imputing Maps from Human Actions
Key Words: collision avoidance  driver information systems  mobile robots  pedestrians  road vehicles  human actions  autonomous vehicles  pedestrian detection  collision avoidance  map estimation  human driving experiments  landmark-based mapping approaches  agents actions  Random variables  Estimation  Automobiles  Computational modeling  Intelligent sensors 
Abstract: Despite growing attention in autonomy, there are still many open problems, including how autonomous vehicles will interact and communicate with other agents, such as human drivers and pedestrians. Unlike most approaches that focus on pedestrian detection and planning for collision avoidance, this paper considers modeling the interaction between human drivers and pedestrians and how it might influence map estimation, as a proxy for detection. We take a mapping inspired approach and incorporate people as sensors into mapping frameworks. By taking advantage of other agents' actions, we demonstrate how we can impute portions of the map that would otherwise be occluded. We evaluate our framework in human driving experiments and on real-world data, using occupancy grids and landmark-based mapping approaches. Our approach significantly improves overall environment awareness and outperforms standard mapping techniques.


Title: Free-View, 3D Gaze-Guided, Assistive Robotic System for Activities of Daily Living
Key Words: assisted living  end effectors  gaze tracking  medical robotics  object recognition  trajectory control  user interfaces  gaze control  assistive robotic system  daily living  free-view gaze interface  object recognition  trajectory planning  quadriplegia patient  end-effector position  Three-dimensional displays  Cameras  Task analysis  Robot kinematics  Object recognition  Planning 
Abstract: Patients suffering from quadriplegia have limited body motion which prevents them from performing daily activities. We have developed an assistive robotic system with an intuitive free-view gaze interface. The user's point of regard is estimated in 3D space while allowing free head movement and is combined with object recognition and trajectory planning. This framework allows the user to interact with objects using fixations. Two operational modes have been implemented to cater for different eventualities. The automatic mode performs a pre-defined task associated with a gaze-selected object, while the manual mode allows gaze control of the robot's end-effector position on the user's frame of reference. User studies reported effortless operation in automatic mode. A manual pick and place task achieved a success rate of 100% on the users' first attempt.


Title: Uncertainty-based Online Mapping and Motion Planning for Marine Robotics Guidance
Key Words: autonomous underwater vehicles  path planning  probability  robot dynamics  vehicle dynamics  uncertainty-based framework  online computation constraints  motion planning  marine robotics guidance  robotic systems  safe path  underwater environments  autonomous vehicles  probabilistic safety  online mapping  Uncertainty  Safety  Planning  Probabilistic logic  Robot sensing systems  Vehicle dynamics 
Abstract: In real-world robotics, motion planning remains to be an open challenge. Not only robotic systems are required to move through unexplored environments, but also their manoeuvrability is constrained by their dynamics and often suffer from uncertainty. One approach to overcome this problem is to incrementally map the surroundings while, simultaneously, planning a safe and feasible path to a desired goal. This is especially critical in underwater environments, where autonomous vehicles must deal with both motion and environment uncertainties. In order to cope with these constraints, this work proposes an uncertainty-based framework for mapping and planning3 feasible motions online with probabilistic safety-guarantees. The proposed approach deals with the motion, probabilistic safety, and online computation constraints by (i) incrementally representing the environment as a collection of local maps, and (ii) iteratively (re)planning kinodynamically-feasible and probabilistically-safe paths to goal. The proposed framework is evaluated on the Sparus II, a nonholonomic torpedo-shaped AUV, by conducting simulated and real-world trials, thus proving the efficacy of the method and its suitability even for systems with limited on-board computational power.


Title: Heterogeneous Vehicles Routing for Water Canal Damage Assessment
Key Words: autonomous aerial vehicles  canals  graph theory  inspection  integer programming  irrigation  path planning  quadratic programming  vehicle routing  water canal damage assessment  irrigation water canals  manual inspection  shortened inspection time  reduced labor cost  automated inspection  road networks  path planning  UAV  unmanned aerial vehicles  ground vehicles  integer quadratic program  IQP  heterogeneous vehicle routing  Irrigation  Automobiles  Inspection  Roads  Planning  Batteries  Routing 
Abstract: In Japan, inspection of irrigation water canals has been mostly conducted manually. However, the huge demand for more regular inspections as infrastructure ages, coupled with the limited time window available for inspection, has rendered manual inspection increasingly insufficient. With shortened inspection time and reduced labor cost, automated inspection using a combination of unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs) and ground vehicles (cars) has emerged as an attractive alternative to manual inspection. In this paper, we propose a path planning framework that generates optimal plans for UAVs and cars to inspect water canals in a large agricultural area (tens of square kilometers). In addition to optimality, the paths need to satisfy several constraints, in order to guarantee UAV navigation safety and to abide by local traffic regulations. In the proposed framework, the canal and road networks are first modeled as two graphs, which are then partitioned into smaller subgraphs that can be covered by a given fleet of UAVs within one battery charge. The problem of finding optimal paths for both UAVs and cars on the graphs, subject to the constraints, is formulated as a integer quadratic program (IQP). The proposed framework can also quickly generate new plans when a current plan is interrupted. The effectiveness of the proposed framework is validated by simulation results showing the successful generation of plans covering all given canal segments, and the ability to quickly revise the plan when conditions change.


Title: A Rationale-Driven Team Plan Representation for Autonomous Intra-Robot Replanning*
Key Words: mobile robots  multi-robot systems  path planning  rationale-driven team plan representation  autonomous multirobot teams  autonomous intrarobot replanning  team planner  intrarobot replanning algorithm  Robots  Oceans  Task analysis  Prediction algorithms  Planning  Satellites  Global Positioning System 
Abstract: For autonomous multi-robot teams, the individual team members are tasked with completing their assigned tasks as defined by a team plan provided by a centralized team planner. However in complex dynamic domains, the team plans are generated by the team planner with assumptions due to the complexity of modeling the domain. Failures in execution are therefore inevitable for the team members, and as such, replanning will occur for the team. In this paper, we introduce a rationale-driven team plan representation that provides rationales on why actions were chosen by the team planner. During a failure, the individual team members autonomously use our described intra-robot replanning algorithm to select all applicable replan policies for a given rationale. We then describe a method to learn the predicted cost of each replan policy, given a state of the environment, in order for the individual robots to select the lowest costing replan policy to improve team performance.


Title: User-specific Gaussian Process Model of Wheelchair Drivers with a Haptic Joystick Interface
Key Words: Gaussian processes  handicapped aids  haptic interfaces  human-robot interaction  interactive devices  man-machine systems  mobile robots  navigation  path planning  user modelling  wheelchairs  Gaussian process  spastic wheelchair user  navigation assistance frequency  achievable user model evaluation frequency  haptic joysticks  probabilistic user-specific driver model  mental navigation plan  particular user  personalised driver model  navigation plans  probabilistic framework  navigation task  inherent uncertainty  heterogeneous driving styles  mobile robot  intuitive control  driving semiautonomous  collaborative human-robot navigation  haptic joystick interface  wheelchair drivers  user-specific Gaussian process model  Wheelchairs  Navigation  Mobile robots  Probabilistic logic  Gaussian processes  Hidden Markov models 
Abstract: In collaborative human-robot navigation such as when driving semi-autonomous robotic wheelchairs, intuitive control of the mobile robot is only possible if the robot understands its user. This becomes especially important as users present varying levels of abilities and heterogeneous driving styles. Furthermore, the robot needs to consider the inherent uncertainty on its navigation task because the user may not be able to communicate his or her plans explicitly. In order to address these requirements, we have adopted a probabilistic framework to recognise navigation plans. A key component in this framework is a personalised driver model, which captures how a particular user transforms his or her mental navigation plan into inputs to the robot. In this work, we evaluate the use of Gaussian Processes to implement and calibrate this probabilistic, user-specific driver model, and this for use with haptic joysticks. Furthermore, special care was taken to obtain fast online evaluation of this user model through sparse approximation and parallel computation on a GPU. This resulted in an achievable user model evaluation frequency of 40 Hz, which is far above the navigation assistance frequency we aimed for, i.e. 5 Hz. We illustrate the validity of the approach by recognising the navigation plans of a spastic wheelchair user.


Title: Distributed Deep Reinforcement Learning based Indoor Visual Navigation
Key Words: indoor environment  indoor navigation  learning (artificial intelligence)  mobile robots  object detection  path planning  robot vision  complicated environment scene  motor control command  navigation task  large-scale indoor complex environment  pre-constructed map  indoor environment  complex spatial perception possible  indoor space  complex navigation path  aforementioned large-scale environment  real environments  distributed deep reinforcement learning based indoor visual navigation  Navigation  Visualization  Task analysis  Training  Reinforcement learning  Robots  Indoor environments  deep reinforcement learning  visual navigation 
Abstract: Recently, as the rise of deep reinforcement learning, it not only can help the robot to convert the complicated environment scene to motor control command directly but also can accomplish the navigation task properly. In this paper, we propose a novel structure, where the objective is to achieve navigation in large-scale indoor complex environment without pre-constructed map. Generally, it requires good understanding of such indoor environment to make complex spatial perception possible, especially when the indoor space consists of many walls and doors which might block the view of robot leading to complex navigation path. By the proposed distributed deep reinforcement learning in different local regions, our method can achieve indoor visual navigation in the aforementioned large-scale environment without extra map information and human instruction. In the experiments, we validate our proposed method by conducting highly promising navigation tasks both in simulation and real environments.


Title: Composite Reinforcement Learning for Social Robot Navigation
Key Words: human-robot interaction  learning (artificial intelligence)  mobile robots  path planning  service robots  minimum distance path  deep reinforcement learning technique  navigational movement  service robot  social robot navigation  CRL system  human robot interaction  human feedback  composite reinforcement learning framework  high dimension complex problem  Navigation  Reinforcement learning  Legged locomotion  Task analysis  Collision avoidance  Robot kinematics 
Abstract: For a service robot, it is not adequate to let its navigational movement be based only on a single metric, such as minimum distance path. In the environment where the robot and humans are coexisting, the robot should always perform social navigation whenever it is moving. However, to perform social navigation, the robot needs to follow certain “social norms” of the environment. Recently, deep reinforcement learning (DRL) technique is popularly applied to the robotics field; yet, it is rarely used to solve the mentioned social navigation problem, generally deemed as a high dimension complex problem. In this paper, we propose the composite reinforcement learning (CRL) framework under which the robot learns appropriate social navigation with sensor input and reward update based on human feedback. For learning the aspect of human robot interaction (HRI), we provide a method to facilitate the training of DRL in real environment by incorporating prior knowledge to the system. It turns out that our CRL system not only can incrementally learn how to set its velocity and to perform HRI but also keep collecting human feedback to synchronize the reward functions to the current social norms. The experiments show that the proposed CRL system can safely learn how to navigate in the environment and show that our system is able to perform HRI for social navigation.


Title: Apple Counting using Convolutional Neural Networks
Key Words: agricultural products  convolutional neural nets  Gaussian processes  horticulture  image classification  object detection  horticultural studies  logistics planning  Gaussian mixture model  convolutional neural network  yield estimate  per-image accuracy  fruit counting  fruit detection  vegetable counts  apple counting  Image color analysis  Yield estimation  Agriculture  Image segmentation  Clustering algorithms  Task analysis  Vegetation 
Abstract: Estimating accurate and reliable fruit and vegetable counts from images in real-world settings, such as orchards, is a challenging problem that has received significant recent attention. Estimating fruit counts before harvest provides useful information for logistics planning. While considerable progress has been made toward fruit detection, estimating the actual counts remains challenging. In practice, fruits are often clustered together. Therefore, methods that only detect fruits fail to offer general solutions to estimate accurate fruit counts. Furthermore, in horticultural studies, rather than a single yield estimate, finer information such as the distribution of the number of apples per cluster is desirable. In this work, we formulate fruit counting from images as a multi-class classification problem and solve it by training a Convolutional Neural Network. We first evaluate the per-image accuracy of our method and compare it with a state of the art method based on Gaussian Mixture Models over four test datasets. Even though the parameters of the Gaussian Mixture Model based method are specifically tuned for each dataset, our network outperforms it in three out of four datasets with a maximum of 94% accuracy. Next, we use the method to estimate the yield for two datasets for which we have ground truth. Our method achieved 96-97% accuracies. For additional details please see our video here: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Le0mb5P-SYc.


Title: Improving indoor robots localisation by fusing different sensors
Key Words: cameras  mobile robots  navigation  path planning  pose estimation  laser LMS-200  omnidirectional camera Mobotix C2S  tour guide robot  external landmarks  indoor mobile robots navigation  odometry  external sensors  indoor robots localisation  Cameras  Measurement by laser beam  Lasers  Robot vision systems 
Abstract: Indoor mobile robots navigation must use external sensors to complement odometry. This paper analyses two different external sensors such as a laser LMS-200 and an omnidirectional camera Mobotix C2S. Experiments with only one of these sensors and with both integrated are carried out on a tour guide robot in order to obtain conclusions about their contribution to robot pose estimation, and how to locate external landmarks in the environment.


Title: Adaptive Task Planner for Performing Home Service Tasks in Cooperation with a Human
Key Words: humanoid robots  human-robot interaction  image colour analysis  image sensors  path planning  robot vision  sequence network  episodic memory  user behaviors  task scheduler schedules  executable behavior  alternative behavior sequence  failed behavior problem  wheel-based humanoid robot  adaptive task planner  home service task  temporal sequence  fast forward planner  sequence to sequence network  Task analysis  Robot sensing systems  Robot kinematics  Planning  Generators  Thermal sensors 
Abstract: To perform a home service task through cooperation with a human in a real environment, a robot needs to deal with the environmental changes and accordingly plan appropriate behavior sequence. For this purpose, in this paper, we propose an adaptive task planner which is based on memory and reasoning. A robot perceives user behaviors and objects using an RGB-depth and thermal sensor. The robot stores a temporal sequence of behaviors for performing a task in its episodic memory that is realized by a sequence to sequence network. When the user command is given, the episodic memory is used to retrieve the behavior sequence to carry out the command. On the other hand, when the robot perceives user behaviors, the robot postpones its behavior till his/her behavior is stopped. Once stopped, the episodic memory retrieves the behavior sequence to conduct a task that the user has intended. A task scheduler schedules the behavior sequence from the memory and sends it to an internal simulator. The internal simulator confirms the behavior sequence to be executable and then if executable, it sends the next executable behavior to the execution module. If a behavior fails in the internal simulation test, fast forward planner generates an alternative behavior sequence to resolve the failed behavior problem. The effectiveness and applicability of the proposed planner is demonstrated by a wheel-based humanoid robot.


Title: Online Path Planning and Compliance Control of Space Robot for Capturing Tumbling Large Object
Key Words: aerospace control  aerospace robotics  compliance control  end effectors  force feedback  image capture  manipulator dynamics  mobile robots  motion control  object recognition  path planning  position control  robot vision  robust control  compliance control  planned trajectory  moving grasping point  end-effector position error  end-effector motion  coordinated control  spacecraft base  robotic arm  online path planning  space robot  coordinated motion control  robust control scheme  end-effector trajectory  tumbling large object capturing  Grasping  End effectors  Robot kinematics  Trajectory 
Abstract: This paper presents the path planning and coordinated control of a space robot with a manipulator for capturing a rotating large object. As the grasping point on a rotating large object is translationally moving fast, an appropriate strategy and coordinated motion control of the spacecraft base and robotic arm must be employed for approaching and tracking such a grasping point. In this paper, we propose a robust control scheme including the online path planning and compliance control for grasping such a target. The path planning is derived in a simple form that allows the desired end-effector trajectory to be easily modified in real-time using the newly updated states without complex numerical calculation. In addition, the compliance control allows the end-effector to track the planned trajectory or the moving grasping point, while using contact force feedback to reduce the end-effector position error from the grasping point when capturing the target. This end-effector motion is implemented by coordinated control on the spacecraft base and robotic arm, which can suitably alter their distribution of motion according to scenes using a weighted pseudoinverse matrix. Experiments are conducted to demonstrate the validity of the proposed path planning and compliance control.


Title: Workspace Aware Online Grasp Planning
Key Words: end effectors  path planning  reachable end-effector configurations  unique end-effector poses  workspace aware online grasp planning  reachable grasps  Planning  Robots  Trajectory  Measurement  Kinematics  Grasping  Databases 
Abstract: This work provides a framework for a workspace aware online grasp planner. This framework greatly improves the performance of standard online grasp planning algorithms by incorporating a notion of reachability into the online grasp planning process. Offline, a database of hundreds of thousands of unique end-effector poses were queried for feasibility. At runtime, our grasp planner uses this database to bias the hand towards reachable end-effector configurations. The bias keeps the grasp planner in accessible regions of the planning scene so that the resulting grasps are tailored to the situation at hand. This results in a higher percentage of reachable grasps, a higher percentage of successful grasp executions, and a reduced planning time. We also present experimental results using simulated and real environments.


Title: Model-free and learning-free grasping by Local Contact Moment matching
Key Words: dexterous manipulators  grippers  image matching  learning (artificial intelligence)  path planning  robot vision  local contact moment matching  LoCoMo metric  grasp planners  learning-based approaches  prototype grasp configurations  robust contacts  fingertip contacts  physical parameters  force-closure analysis  object surface patches  zero-moment shift features  learning-free grasping  Grasping  Robots  Measurement  Grippers  Shape  Three-dimensional displays  Training data 
Abstract: This paper addresses the problem of grasping arbitrarily shaped objects, observed as partial point-clouds, without requiring: models of the objects, physics parameters, training data, or other a-priori knowledge. A grasp metric is proposed based on Local Contact Moment (LoCoMo). LoCoMo combines zero-moment shift features, of both hand and object surface patches, to determine local similarity. This metric is then used to search for a set of feasible grasp poses with associated grasp likelihoods. LoCoMo overcomes some limitations of both classical grasp planners and learning-based approaches. Unlike force-closure analysis, LoCoMo does not require knowledge of physical parameters such as friction coefficients, and avoids assumptions about fingertip contacts, instead enabling robust contacts of large areas of hand and object surface. Unlike more recent learning-based approaches, LoCoMo does not require training data, and does not need any prototype grasp configurations to be taught by kinesthetic demonstration. We present results of real-robot experiments grasping 21 different objects, observed by a wrist-mounted depth camera. All objects are grasped successfully when presented to the robot individually. The robot also successfully clears cluttered heaps of objects by sequentially grasping and lifting objects until none remain.


Title: A Framework for Robot Grasp Transferring with Non-rigid Transformation
Key Words: collision avoidance  control engineering computing  dexterous manipulators  grippers  learning (artificial intelligence)  optimisation  path planning  orientation search  collision avoidance  grasp generation  dexterous tasks execution  online planning  grasp planning  robot grasp transferring  task requirements  robot reachability  grasp robustness  nonrigid transformation  human demonstration  analytic approach  Task analysis  Robots  Grasping  Planning  Collision avoidance  Grippers  Databases 
Abstract: Grasp planning is essential for robots to execute dexterous tasks. Solving the optimal grasps for various objects online, however, is challenging due to the heavy computation load during exhaustive sampling, and the difficulties to consider task requirements. This paper proposes a framework to combine analytic approach with learning for efficient grasp generation. The example grasps are taught by human demonstration and mapped to similar objects by a non-rigid transformation. The mapped grasps are evaluated analytically and refined by an orientation search to improve the grasp robustness and robot reachability. The proposed approach is able to plan high-quality grasps, avoid collision, satisfy task requirements, and achieve efficient online planning. The effectiveness of the proposed method is verified by a series of experiments.


Title: Affordance Wayfields for Task and Motion Planning
Key Words: gradient methods  manipulators  path planning  manipulation affordances  affordance wayfields  motion planning  gradient descent  Michigan Progress Fetch mobile manipulator  Planning  Task analysis  End effectors  Trajectory  Cost function 
Abstract: Affordances provide a natural means for a robot to describe its agency as actions it can perform on objects. Further, affordances can enable robots to reason complicated, multi-step tasks that involve proper use of a diversity of objects. This paper proposes the concept of affordance wayfields for representing manipulation affordances as objective functions in configuration space. Affordance wayfields quantify how well a path, or sequence of motions, will accomplish an afforded action on an object. Paths that enact affordances can be located by performing a randomized form of gradient descent over affordance wayfields. Incorporating obstacles, or other constraints into wayfields allows our method to adaptively generate valid motions for executing afforded actions. We demonstrate that affordance wayfields can enable robots, such as the Michigan Progress Fetch mobile manipulator, to solve complex real-world tasks such as assembling a table, or loading and unloading objects from a storage chest.


Title: Tactile Regrasp: Grasp Adjustments via Simulated Tactile Transformations
Key Words: convolutional neural nets  grippers  manipulators  motion control  path planning  robot vision  tactile regrasp  simulated tactile transformations  tactile sensing  regrasp action  local transformations  grasp quality metric  deep convolutional neural network  rigid-body transformations  grasp quality network  grasp actions  tactile measurements  grasp adjustments  regrasp control policy  tactile imprints  robot motions  Grasping  Measurement  Tactile sensors  Grippers 
Abstract: This paper presents a novel regrasp control policy that makes use of tactile sensing to plan local grasp adjustments. Our approach determines regrasp actions by virtually searching for local transformations of tactile measurements that improve the quality of the grasp. First, we construct a tactile-based grasp quality metric using a deep convolutional neural network trained on over 2800 grasps. The quality of each grasp, a continuous value between 0 and 1, is determined experimentally by measuring its resistance to external perturbations. Second, we simulate the tactile imprints associated with robot motions relative to the initial grasp by performing rigid-body transformations of the given tactile measurements. The newly generated tactile imprints are evaluated with the learned grasp quality network and the regrasp action is chosen to maximize the grasp quality. Results show that the grasp quality network can predict the outcome of grasps with an average accuracy of 85% on known objects and 75% on novel objects. The regrasp control policy improves the success rate of grasp actions by an average relative increase of 70% on a test set of 8 objects. We provide a video summarizing our approach at https://youtu.be/gjn7DmfpwDk.


Title: Robot-driven Trajectory Improvement for Feeding Tasks
Key Words: assisted living  handicapped aids  learning (artificial intelligence)  medical robotics  mobile robots  path planning  search problems  trajectory control  robotic joints  kinesthetic learning  active learning  robot-driven trajectory improvement  assistive robotics  parameterized similar path search algorithm  PSPS  feeding tasks  computer programming  Trajectory  Task analysis  Robot kinematics  Cost function  Training  Manipulators 
Abstract: Kinesthetic learning is a type of learning from demonstration in which the teacher manually moves the robot through the demonstrated trajectory. It shows great promise in the area of assistive robotics since it enables a caretaker who is not an expert in computer programming to communicate a novel task to an assistive robot. However, the trajectory the caretaker demonstrates to solve the task may be a high-cost trajectory for the robot. The demonstrated trajectory could be high-cost because the teacher does not know what trajectories are easy or hard for the robot to perform, which would be due to a limitation of the teacher's knowledge, or because the teacher has difficulty moving all the robotic joints precisely along the desired trajectories, which would be due to a limitation of the teacher's coordination. We propose the Parameterized Similar Path Search (PSPS) algorithm to extend kinesthetic learning so that a robot can improve the learned trajectory over a known cost function. This algorithm is based on active learning from the robot through collaboration between the robot's knowledge of the cost function and the caretaker's knowledge of the constraints of the assigned task.


Title: Motion Planning Among Dynamic, Decision-Making Agents with Deep Reinforcement Learning
Key Words: collision avoidance  learning (artificial intelligence)  mobile robots  path planning  safe operation  deep reinforcement learning  complex interactions  environment increases  dynamic agents  particular behavior rules  arbitrary number  motion planning  decision-making agents  collision avoidance algorithms  Collision avoidance  Robots  Training  Decision making  Heuristic algorithms  Sensors  Navigation 
Abstract: Robots that navigate among pedestrians use collision avoidance algorithms to enable safe and efficient operation. Recent works present deep reinforcement learning as a framework to model the complex interactions and cooperation. However, they are implemented using key assumptions about other agents' behavior that deviate from reality as the number of agents in the environment increases. This work extends our previous approach to develop an algorithm that learns collision avoidance among a variety of types of dynamic agents without assuming they follow any particular behavior rules. This work also introduces a strategy using LSTM that enables the algorithm to use observations of an arbitrary number of other agents, instead of previous methods that have a fixed observation size. The proposed algorithm outperforms our previous approach in simulation as the number of agents increases, and the algorithm is demonstrated on a fully autonomous robotic vehicle traveling at human walking speed.


Title: Augmenting Physical Simulators with Stochastic Neural Networks: Case Study of Planar Pushing and Bouncing
Key Words: Gaussian processes  learning (artificial intelligence)  neural nets  state estimation  robot state estimation  planar pushing  ball bouncing  analytical rigid-body simulator  model uncertainty  symbolic simulators  stochastic neural networks  generalizable physical simulator  universal uncertainty estimates  analytical learned simulators  Gaussian processes  object trajectories  Analytical models  Predictive models  Physics  Data models  Uncertainty  Engines  Neural networks 
Abstract: An efficient, generalizable physical simulator with universal uncertainty estimates has wide applications in robot state estimation, planning, and control. In this paper, we build such a simulator for two scenarios, planar pushing and ball bouncing, by augmenting an analytical rigid-body simulator with a neural network that learns to model uncertainty as residuals. Combining symbolic, deterministic simulators with learnable, stochastic neural nets provides us with expressiveness, efficiency, and generalizability simultaneously. Our model outperforms both purely analytical and purely learned simulators consistently on real, standard benchmarks. Compared with methods that model uncertainty using Gaussian processes, our model runs much faster, generalizes better to new object shapes, and is able to characterize the complex distribution of object trajectories.


Title: Learning Sample-Efficient Target Reaching for Mobile Robots
Key Words: gradient methods  learning (artificial intelligence)  mobile robots  path planning  self-supervised policy gradient algorithm  unsupervised auxiliary tasks  sparse range-finder measurements  convolutional networks  network architecture  sparse reward problem  robots uncertainty  unsupervised tasks  mobile robots  planning problem  sample-efficient target reaching learning  Task analysis  Robot sensing systems  Planning  Encoding  Uncertainty  Training 
Abstract: In this paper, we propose a novel architecture and a self-supervised policy gradient algorithm, which employs unsupervised auxiliary tasks to enable a mobile robot to learn how to navigate to a given goal. The dependency on the global information is eliminated by providing only sparse range-finder measurements to the robot. The partially observable planning problem is addressed by splitting it into a hierarchical process. We use convolutional networks to plan locally, and a differentiable memory to provide information about past time steps in the trajectory. These modules, combined in our network architecture, produce globally consistent plans. The sparse reward problem is mitigated by our modified policy gradient algorithm. We model the robots uncertainty with unsupervised tasks to force exploration. The novel architecture we propose with the modified version of the policy gradient algorithm allows our robot to reach the goal in a sample efficient manner, which is orders of magnitude faster than the current state of the art policy gradient algorithm. Simulation and experimental results are provided to validate the proposed approach.


Title: Deep Multi-Sensor Lane Detection
Key Words: driver information systems  image sensors  neural nets  object detection  optical radar  road traffic  multisensor lane detection  reliable lane detection  accurate lane detection  long-standing problem  autonomous driving  image space  accurate image estimates  precise 3D lane boundaries  modern motion planning algorithms  deep neural network  camera sensors  accurate estimates  LiDAR  Cameras  Three-dimensional displays  Laser radar  Sensors  Roads  Task analysis  Reliability 
Abstract: Reliable and accurate lane detection has been a long-standing problem in the field of autonomous driving. In recent years, many approaches have been developed that use images (or videos) as input and reason in image space. In this paper we argue that accurate image estimates do not translate to precise 3D lane boundaries, which are the input required by modern motion planning algorithms. To address this issue, we propose a novel deep neural network that takes advantage of both LiDAR and camera sensors and produces very accurate estimates directly in 3D space. We demonstrate the performance of our approach on both highways and in cities, and show very accurate estimates in complex scenarios such as heavy traffic (which produces occlusion), fork, merges and intersections.


Title: Deep Reinforcement Learning to Acquire Navigation Skills for Wheel-Legged Robots in Complex Environments
Key Words: learning (artificial intelligence)  legged locomotion  path planning  robot vision  wheels  navigation skills  navigation behaviors  action policies training  height-map image observations  motor commands  dynamic environments  mobile robot navigation  complex environments  deep reinforcement learning  wheel-legged robots  Training  Task analysis  Navigation  Mobile robots  Trajectory  Robot sensing systems 
Abstract: Mobile robot navigation in complex and dynamic environments is a challenging but important problem. Reinforcement learning approaches fail to solve these tasks efficiently due to reward sparsities, temporal complexities and high-dimensionality of sensorimotor spaces which are inherent in such problems. We present a novel approach to train action policies to acquire navigation skills for wheel-legged robots using deep reinforcement learning. The policy maps height-map image observations to motor commands to navigate to a target position while avoiding obstacles. We propose to acquire the multifaceted navigation skill by learning and exploiting a number of manageable navigation behaviors. We also introduce a domain randomization technique to improve the versatility of the training samples. We demonstrate experimentally a significant improvement in terms of data-efficiency, success rate, robustness against irrelevant sensory data, and also the quality of the maneuver skills.


Title: Human-in-the-loop Augmented Mapping
Key Words: inertial systems  mobile robots  operating systems (computers)  optical radar  path planning  robot programming  user interfaces  2D map building  user interface  human map augmentation  LIDAR  Gmapping ROS package  Unity software  online editing capabilities  user-friendly system  traditional offline post processing  real-time human augmented mapping system  human-in-the-loop  mapping errors  Two dimensional displays  Laser radar  Simultaneous localization and mapping  Three-dimensional displays  Corporate acquisitions 
Abstract: In this paper we develop a real-time human augmented mapping system. This approach replaces the traditional offline post processing of maps by a user-friendly system allowing for online editing capabilities. A wide number of applications that acquire accurate mapping of the environment could benefit from such a solution. The proposed framework consists of two main parts: 2D map building using LIDAR, encoders, and IMU; and a user interface for human map augmentation. The first part is built over Gmapping ROS package, while the second is developed in Unity software. Realworld experiments validated the ability of our system to correct for sensor noise and various mapping errors, thus increasing the accuracy of the obtained maps without additional computational costs.


Title: A B-Spline Mapping Framework for Long-Term Autonomous Operations
Key Words: image representation  image sensors  mobile robots  navigation  path planning  robot vision  SLAM (robots)  splines (mathematics)  landmark-based maps  robotics community  high frequency sensor  B-spline curves  B-spline maps  mapping algorithm  2D B-spline mapping framework  outdoor long-term autonomous operations  simultaneous localization and mapping  SLAM algorithm  software-in-the-loop simulations  Splines (mathematics)  Simultaneous localization and mapping  Three-dimensional displays  Robot kinematics  Two dimensional displays 
Abstract: This paper presents a 2D B-spline mapping framework for representing unstructured environments in a compact manner. While occupancy-grid and landmark-based maps have been successfully employed by the robotics community in indoor scenarios, outdoor long-term autonomous operations require a more compact representation of the environment. This work tackles this problem by interpolating the data of a high frequency sensor using B-spline curves. Compared to lines and circles, splines are more powerful in the sense that they allow for the description of more complex shapes in the scene. In this work, spline curves are continuously tracked and aligned across multiple sensor readings using lightweight methods, making the proposed framework suitable for robot navigation in outdoor missions. In particular, a Simultaneous Localization and Mapping (SLAM) algorithm specifically tailored for B-spline maps is presented here. The efficacy of the proposed framework is demonstrated by Software-in-the-Loop (SiL) simulations in different scenarios.


Title: Real Time Incremental Foveal Texture Mapping for Autonomous Vehicles
Key Words: cameras  computer vision  image reconstruction  image resolution  image texture  mesh generation  mobile robots  optical radar  robot vision  scan matching techniques  end-to-end real time framework  real time incremental foveal texture mapping  real time incremental foveal texture mapping  precise localization  detailed map  urban environment  high resolution graphics grade  texture mapping error  texture error  output map  computation time  ray-filtering  sparse input LIDAR scan  high resolution 3D  camera image information  pose-refinement procedure  color texture  coherent 3D surface  computer games  background map  planning algorithms  virtual test bed  autonomous vehicles  navigation  Three-dimensional displays  Laser radar  Cameras  Real-time systems  Image color analysis  Global Positioning System 
Abstract: We propose an end-to-end real time framework to generate high resolution graphics grade textured 3D map of urban environment. The generated detailed map finds its application in the precise localization and navigation of autonomous vehicles. It can also serve as a virtual test bed for various vision and planning algorithms as well as a background map in the computer games. In this paper, we focus on two important issues: (i) incrementally generating a map with coherent 3D surface, in real time and (ii) preserving the quality of color texture. To handle the above issues, firstly, we perform a pose-refinement procedure which leverages camera image information, Delaunay triangulation and existing scan matching techniques to produce high resolution 3D map from the sparse input LIDAR scan. This 3D map is then texturized and accumulated by using a novel technique of ray-filtering which handles occlusion and inconsistencies in pose-refinement. Further, inspired by human fovea, we introduce foveal-processing which significantly reduces the computation time and also assists ray-filtering to maintain consistency in color texture and coherency in 3D surface of the output map. Moreover, we also introduce texture error (TE) and mean texture mapping error (MTME), which provides quantitative measure of texturing and overall quality of the textured maps.


Title: Directional Grid Maps: Modeling Multimodal Angular Uncertainty in Dynamic Environments
Key Words: collision avoidance  human-robot interaction  mobile robots  optical radar  path planning  probability  directional grid maps  occupancy map  mobile robot  robotic arm  static environments  dynamic objects  safer navigation  human-robot interaction  directional statistics  robotic mapping  model circular data  angular motion  probability measure-field  angular variations  indoor environments  outdoor environments  dynamic environments  grid maps  multimodal angular uncertainty  Vehicle dynamics  Robot sensing systems  Data models  Uncertainty  Navigation 
Abstract: Robots often have to deal with the challenges of operating in dynamic and sometimes unpredictable environments. Although an occupancy map of the environment is sufficient for navigation of a mobile robot or manipulation tasks with a robotic arm in static environments, robots operating in dynamic environments demand richer information to improve robustness, efficiency, and safety. For instance, in path planning, it is important to know the direction of motion of dynamic objects at various locations of the environment for safer navigation or human-robot interaction. In this paper, we introduce directional statistics into robotic mapping to model circular data. Primarily, in collateral to occupancy grid maps, we propose directional grid maps to represent the location-wide long-term angular motion of the environment. Being highly representative, this defines a probability measure-field over the longitude-latitude space rather than a scalar-field or a vector-field. Withal, we further demonstrate how the same theory can be used to model angular variations in the spatial domain, temporal domain, and spatiotemporal domain. We carried out a series of experiments to validate the proposed models using a variety of robots having different sensors such as RGB cameras and LiDARs on simulated and real-world settings in both indoor and outdoor environments.


Title: Sensor-Based Reactive Execution of Symbolic Rearrangement Plans by a Legged Mobile Manipulator
Key Words: collision avoidance  feedback  legged locomotion  manipulators  mobile robots  motion control  path planning  torque control  motion planner  reactive layer  reference output  deliberative layer  unanticipated obstacles  gait layer  abstract unicycle commands  reactive module  appropriately coordinated joint level torque feedback loops  empirical demonstration  sensor-based reactive execution  symbolic rearrangement plans  legged mobile manipulator  physical rearrangement  wheeled stools  moderately cluttered indoor environment  quadrupedal robot  layer hierarchical architecture  offline symbolic task  Task analysis  Grippers  Robot sensing systems  Robot kinematics  Mobile robots  Manipulators 
Abstract: We demonstrate the physical rearrangement of wheeled stools in a moderately cluttered indoor environment by a quadrupedal robot that autonomously achieves a user's desired configuration. The robot's behaviors are planned and executed by a three layer hierarchical architecture consisting of: an offline symbolic task and motion planner; a reactive layer that tracks the reference output of the deliberative layer and avoids unanticipated obstacles sensed online; and a gait layer that realizes the abstract unicycle commands from the reactive module through appropriately coordinated joint level torque feedback loops. This work also extends prior formal results about the reactive layer to a broad class of nonconvex obstacles. Our design is verified both by formal proofs as well as empirical demonstration of various assembly tasks.


Title: Human Motion Prediction Under Social Grouping Constraints
Key Words: Markov processes  mobile robots  motion control  multi-robot systems  planning (artificial intelligence)  probability  random processes  human motion prediction  social grouping constraints  long-term prediction  social relations  social norms  surrounding agents  MDP planning problem  social forces  social grouping information  prediction process  soft formation constraints  mobile robots  Force  Task analysis  Trajectory  Predictive models  Computational modeling  Tracking  Planning 
Abstract: Accurate long-term prediction of human motion in populated spaces is an important but difficult task for mobile robots and intelligent vehicles. What makes this task challenging is that human motion is influenced by a large variety of factors including the person's intention, the presence, attributes, actions, social relations and social norms of other surrounding agents, and the geometry and semantics of the environment. In this paper, we consider the problem of computing human motion predictions that account for such factors. We formulate the task as an MDP planning problem with stochastic policies and propose a weighted random walk algorithm in which each agent is locally influenced by social forces from other nearby agents. The novelty of this paper is that we incorporate social grouping information into the prediction process reflecting the soft formation constraints that groups typically impose to their members' motion. We show that our method makes more accurate predictions than three state-of-the-art methods in terms of probabilistic and geometrical performance metrics.


Title: Risk-Based Human-Aware Multi-Robot Coordination in Dynamic Environments Shared with Humans
Key Words: human-robot interaction  Kalman filters  mobile robots  multi-robot systems  path planning  risk analysis  trajectory control  risk-based human-aware multirobot coordination  dynamic environments  human-populated environments  Kalman filter  position estimation  MRTA problem  human trajectory prediction  multirobot task allocation problem  human-aware navigation  risk-based bids  risk-based human-aware planning  human-agnostic planning  prediction error  Robot kinematics  Task analysis  Navigation  Planning  Uncertainty  Estimation 
Abstract: In this paper, we propose a risk-based coordination method for the Multi-Robot Task Allocation (MRTA) problem in human-populated environments. We introduce risk-based bids that incorporate human trajectory prediction uncertainties and furthermore, social costs in their formulation. We demonstrate the effectiveness of including a predictive component in the risk formulation despite the lack of accurate position estimation for humans through an extensive suite of experiments. This is done by means of testing different levels of prediction error for known human trajectories and in a separate approach, using a Kalman filter for human trajectory estimation. Furthermore, we propose different risk formulations and evaluate their performance in a high-fidelity simulator. Additionally, a comparative study targeting human-agnostic planning at both navigation and planning levels, human-aware navigation and planning based on deterministic costs, and risk-based human-aware planning with no individual human-aware navigation has been conducted. Results confirm that risk-based bids lead to more socially acceptable team plans that reduce the need for the lower level individual human-aware navigation to be activated. Risk-based plans accounting for social costs prevent difficult social situations that can lead to less effective human-aware navigation, such as traversing narrow passages occupied by humans.


Title: After You: Doorway Negotiation for Human-Robot and Robot-Robot Interaction
Key Words: human-robot interaction  path planning  doorway negotiation  robot-robot interaction  autonomous robot behavior  aggressive interaction  navigation deadlocks  assertive robot  common navigation sensors  naive human participants  human users  robot-robot experiments  human-robot interaction study  Navigation  Collision avoidance  Robot sensing systems  System recovery  Autonomous robots  Safety 
Abstract: We propose and test an autonomous robot behavior for socially-compliant navigation of doorways with both human and robot interlocutors. Building on previous work for “aggressive” interaction between robots to resolve navigation deadlocks in corridors, we demonstrate an “assertive” robot that negotiates right-of-way when faced with a human or other robot. The negotiation is implemented using only motion and common navigation sensors, without explicit message-passing. Our goal is for the correct agent to take priority, as decided both by time-efficiency and as judged subjectively by naive human participants. Our contribution is a practical method for doorway negotiation, and a study of human users' responses to a robot that appears to participate in existing social customs surrounding doors. Our method is evaluated with robot-robot experiments and a human-robot interaction study with nonexpert users.


Title: Move Base Flex A Highly Flexible Navigation Framework for Mobile Robots
Key Words: mobile robots  motion control  navigation  path planning  MBF  path planning  motion control  robot tasks  complex navigation tasks  Move Base Flex  highly flexible navigation framework  modular navigation  map-independent navigation  open-source navigation  Navigation  Robots  Computer architecture  Task analysis  Flexible printed circuits  Servers  Planning 
Abstract: We present Move Base Flex (MBF), a highly flexible, modular, map-independent, open-source navigation framework for use in ROS. MBF provides modular actions for executing plugins for path planning, motion control, and recovery. These actions define interfaces for external executives to allow highly flexible navigation strategies, which can be intertwined with other robot tasks. MBF has been successfully deployed in a professional setting at customer facilities to control robots in highly dynamic environments. We compare MBF with the well-known move_base and present the architecture as well as different deployment approaches, including how MBF can be used with different executives to perform complex navigation tasks interleaved with other robot operations.


Title: Just-in-Time Emergency Trajectories: A Formulation Towards Safety in Autonomous Navigation
Key Words: collision avoidance  emergency management  mobile robots  motion control  multi-robot systems  trajectory control  safe navigation  safe motion controls  emergency trajectory candidates  just-in-time emergency trajectories  autonomous navigation  vehicle operation  safe system state  MHTP  moving horizon trajectory planner  safety requirements  vehicle's local control system  differential-drive mobile agent  nonstatic environment  robot  Trajectory  Safety  Navigation  Robots  Vehicle dynamics  Planning  Collision avoidance 
Abstract: Emergency trajectories enable one to move faster through an environment while still moving safely. Having an emergency trajectory within an observed vacant space makes it possible to safely navigate through unknown territory or through a door without slowing down. Emergency trajectories allow for safe navigation of a vehicle into a safe system state, e.g. a stop, in the event of recognition of an obstacle. This work formally proves the benefit of using emergency trajectories to generate safe and faster motion controls as compared to vehicle operation without such trajectories. Furthermore, this work also presents a working integration of this formalism into a vehicle's low level control system in a Moving Horizon Trajectory Planner (MHTP) with an update rate of 10Hz. Using an MHTP along with a dynamic model of the environment and the proposed constraints, the system is able to derive emergency trajectory candidates which fulfill our safety requirements. This distinguishes the approach from that of others, which replans discrete paths that are then followed by the vehicle's local control system. This approach was implemented on a differential-drive mobile agent and tested using non-static environment assumptions. Simulated and real-robot experimental results illustrate the quality of our approach.


Title: PoseMap: Lifelong, Multi-Environment 3D LiDAR Localization
Key Words: feature extraction  mobile robots  optical radar  path planning  local views  sliding window fashion  matching current  old features  map representation  local maps  off-road environments  single localization failure  distinctive features  coined PoseMap  dynamic environments  robotic systems  long-term localization  multienvironment 3D LiDAR localization  frequency 8.0 Hz  time 18.0 month  Simultaneous localization and mapping  Three-dimensional displays  Laser radar  Optimization  Feature extraction 
Abstract: Reliable long-term localization is key for robotic systems in dynamic environments. In this paper, we propose a novel approach for long-term localization using 3D LiDARs, coined PoseMap. In essence, we extract distinctive features from range measurements and bundle these into local views along with observation poses. The sensor's trajectory is then estimated in a sliding window fashion by matching current and old features and minimizing the distances in-between. The map representation facilitates finding a suitable set of old features, by selecting the closest local map(s) for matching. Similarly to a visibility analysis, this procedure provides a suitable set of features for localization but at a fraction of the computational cost. PoseMap also allows for updates and extensions of the map at any time by replacing and adding local maps when necessary. We evaluate our approach using two platforms both equipped with a 3D LiDAR and an IMU, demonstrating localization at 8 Hz and robustness to changes in the environment such as moving vehicles and changing vegetation. PoseMap was implemented on an autonomous vehicle allowing it to drive autonomously over a period of 18 months through a mix of industrial and unstructured off-road environments, covering more than 100 kms without a single localization failure.


Title: Domain Randomization and Generative Models for Robotic Grasping
Key Words: grippers  learning (artificial intelligence)  neural nets  planning (artificial intelligence)  probability  domain randomization  generative models  deep learning-based robotic grasping  significant progress thanks  algorithmic improvements  increased data availability  state-of-the-art models  unique object instances  result generalization  novel data generation pipeline  deep neural network  successful grasps  autoregressive grasp planning model  probability distribution  possible grasps  sample grasps  test time  model architecture  unseen realistic objects  random objects  real-world grasp  random simulated objects  Grasping  Training  Data models  Computational modeling  Robot sensing systems  Neural networks 
Abstract: Deep learning-based robotic grasping has made significant progress thanks to algorithmic improvements and increased data availability. However, state-of-the-art models are often trained on as few as hundreds or thousands of unique object instances, and as a result generalization can be a challenge. In this work, we explore a novel data generation pipeline for training a deep neural network to perform grasp planning that applies the idea of domain randomization to object synthesis. We generate millions of unique, unrealistic procedurally generated objects, and train a deep neural network to perform grasp planning on these objects. Since the distribution of successful grasps for a given object can be highly multimodal, we propose an autoregressive grasp planning model that maps sensor inputs of a scene to a probability distribution over possible grasps. This model allows us to sample grasps efficiently at test time (or avoid sampling entirely). We evaluate our model architecture and data generation pipeline in simulation and the real world. We find we can achieve a >90% success rate on previously unseen realistic objects at test time in simulation despite having only been trained on random objects. We also demonstrate an 80% success rate on real-world grasp attempts despite having only been trained on random simulated objects.


Title: Manipulation Planning Under Changing External Forces
Key Words: grippers  path planning  position control  stability  bimanual regrasp planning  bimanual robot  external forces  manipulation planning algorithm  forceful operations  subsequent grasps  single gripper  stability  Planning  Grippers  Manifolds  Manipulators  Task analysis  Robot kinematics 
Abstract: We present a manipulation planning algorithm for a robot to keep an object stable under changing external forces. We particularly focus on the case where a human may be applying forceful operations, e.g. cutting or drilling, on an object that the robot is holding. The planner produces an efficient plan by intelligently deciding when the robot should change its grasp on the object as the human applies the forces. The planner also tries to choose subsequent grasps such that they will minimize the number of regrasps that will be required in the long-term. Furthermore, as it switches from one grasp to the other, the planner solves the problem of bimanual regrasp planning, where the object is not placed on a support surface, but instead it is held by a single gripper until the second gripper moves to a new position on the object. This requires the planner to also reason about the stability of the object under gravity. We provide an implementation on a bimanual robot and present experiments to show the performance of our planner.


Title: Planning Hand-Arm Grasping Motions with Human-Like Appearance
Key Words: humanoid robots  manipulator kinematics  motion control  path planning  planning hand-arm grasping motions  hand-arm robotic systems  grasping actions  coordinated movements  robotic arm  anthropomorphic mechanical hand  human movements  human hand synergies  planning phase  motion planning  state-of-the-art planning algorithm  human-like appearance  search space  sampling-based planner  Planning  Grasping  Robot kinematics  Trajectory  Complexity theory  Manipulators 
Abstract: This paper addresses the problem of obtaining human-like motions on hand-arm robotic systems performing grasping actions. The focus is set on the coordinated movements of the robotic arm and the anthropomorphic mechanical hand, with which the arm is equipped. For this, human movements performing different grasps are captured and mapped to the robot in order to compute the human hand synergies. These synergies are used to both obtain human-like movements and to reduce the complexity of the planning phase by reducing the dimension of the search space. In addition, the paper proposes a sampling-based planner, which guides the motion planning following the synergies and considering different types of grasps. The introduced approach is tested in an application example and thoroughly compared with a state-of-the-art planning algorithm, obtaining better results.


Title: Efficient Computation of Invariably Safe States for Motion Planning of Self-Driving Vehicles
Key Words: collision avoidance  Markov processes  road vehicles  stochastic systems  self-driving vehicles  planning horizon  infinite time horizon  time-to-react metric  motion planning  Trajectory  Planning  Safety  Dynamics  Vehicle dynamics  Measurement  Reachability analysis 
Abstract: Safe motion planning requires that a vehicle reaches a set of safe states at the end of the planning horizon. However, safe states of vehicles have not yet been systematically defined in the literature, nor does a computationally efficient way to obtain them for online motion planning exist. To tackle the aforementioned issues, we introduce invariably safe sets. These are regions that allow vehicles to remain safe for an infinite time horizon. We show how invariably safe sets can be computed and propose a tight under-approximation which can be obtained efficiently in linear time with respect to the number of traffic participants. We use invariably safe sets to lift safety verification from finite to infinite time horizons. In addition, our sets can be used to determine the existence of feasible evasive maneuvers and the criticality of scenarios by computing the time-to-react metric.


Title: Improving Offline Value-Function Approximations for POMDPs by Reducing Discount Factors
Key Words: decision theory  function approximation  Markov processes  exponentially discounted rewards  state space  observation model  offline value-function approximations  partially observable Markov decision processes  POMDP  discount factor reduction  Planning  Observability  Approximation error  Markov processes  Memory management  Benchmark testing 
Abstract: A common solution criterion for partially observable Markov decision processes (POMDPs) is to maximize the expected sum of exponentially discounted rewards, for which a variety of approximate methods have been proposed. Those that plan in the belief space typically provide tighter performance guarantees, but those that plan over the state space (e.g., QMDP and FIB) often require much less memory and computation. This paper presents an encouraging result that shows that reducing the discount factor while planning in the state space can actually improve performance significantly when evaluated on the original problem. This phenomenon is confirmed by both a theoretical analysis as well as a series of empirical studies on benchmark problems. As predicted by the theory and confirmed empirically, the phenomenon is most prominent when the observation model is noisy or rewards are sparse.


Title: Integrating Human-Provided Information into Belief State Representation Using Dynamic Factorization
Key Words: mobile robots  path planning  probability  3D continuous cooking task  2D discrete gridworld task  open-domain planning problems  complex partially observed tasks  efficient planning  static factoring  possible objects  open domains  appropriate factoring  efficient belief state representation  raw sensory information  internal knowledge  sensory observations  probabilistic relational constraints  declarative information  partially observed environments  dynamic factorization  Planning  Robot sensing systems  Task analysis  Markov processes  Intelligent robots  Probabilistic logic 
Abstract: In partially observed environments, it can be useful for a human to provide the robot with declarative information that represents probabilistic relational constraints on properties of objects in the world, augmenting the robot's sensory observations. For instance, a robot tasked with a search-and-rescue mission may be informed by the human that two victims are probably in the same room. An important question arises: how should we represent the robot's internal knowledge so that this information is correctly processed and combined with raw sensory information? In this paper, we provide an efficient belief state representation that dynamically selects an appropriate factoring, combining aspects of the belief when they are correlated through information and separating them when they are not. This strategy works in open domains, in which the set of possible objects is not known in advance, and provides significant improvements in inference time over a static factoring, leading to more efficient planning for complex partially observed tasks. We validate our approach experimentally in two open-domain planning problems: a 2D discrete gridworld task and a 3D continuous cooking task. A supplementary video can be found at http://tinyurl.com/chitnis-iros-18.


Title: Simultaneous Task Allocation and Planning Under Uncertainty
Key Words: control engineering computing  formal verification  iterative methods  Markov processes  mobile robots  multi-robot systems  operating systems (computers)  path planning  resource allocation  robot programming  temporal logic  simultaneous task allocation  uncertain environments  individual robot behaviour  linear temporal logic  multirobot policies  simultaneous task planning  Markov decision processes  formal verification  multirobot operating systems  Task analysis  Planning  Robot kinematics  Resource management  Uncertainty  Probabilistic logic 
Abstract: We propose novel techniques for task allocation and planning in multi-robot systems operating in uncertain environments. Task allocation is performed simultaneously with planning, which provides more detailed information about individual robot behaviour, but also exploits independence between tasks to do so efficiently. We use Markov decision processes to model robot behaviour and linear temporal logic to specify tasks and safety constraints. Building upon techniques and tools from formal verification, we show how to generate a sequence of multi-robot policies, iteratively refining them to reallocate tasks if individual robots fail, and providing probabilistic guarantees on the performance (and safe operation) of the team of robots under the resulting policy. We implement our approach and evaluate it on a benchmark multi-robot example.


Title: Strategic-Tactical Planning for Autonomous Underwater Vehicles over Long Horizons
Key Words: autonomous underwater vehicles  control engineering computing  mobile robots  planning (artificial intelligence)  robot dynamics  vehicle dynamics  strategic-tactical planning  autonomous underwater vehicles  long horizons  persistent autonomy  AI Planners  long-term autonomous behaviour  abstraction planning techniques  two-level hierarchical structure  hierarchical decompositions  Task analysis  Planning  Manifolds  Batteries  Inspection  Robots  Valves 
Abstract: In challenging environments where human intervention is expensive, robust and persistent autonomy is a key requirement. AI Planners can efficiently construct plans to achieve this long-term autonomous behaviour. However, in plans which are expected to last over days, or even weeks, the size of the state-space becomes too large for current planners to solve as a single problem. These problems are well-suited to decomposition and abstraction planning techniques. We present a novel approach in the context of persistent autonomy in autonomous underwater vehicles, in which tasks are complex and diverse and plans cannot be precomputed. Our approach performs a decomposition into a two-level hierarchical structure, which dynamically constructs planning problems at the upper level of the hierarchy using solution plans from the lower level. Solution plans are then executed and monitored simultaneously at both levels. We evaluate the approach, showing that compared to strictly top-down hierarchical decompositions, our approach leads to more robust solution plans of higher quality.


Title: Grid-Based Motion Planning Using Advanced Motions for Hexapod Robots
Key Words: graph theory  legged locomotion  motion control  path planning  grid-based motion planning  advanced motions  hexapod robots  motion planning framework  chimney walking  robot motion  hierarchical planning framework  custom-designed Corin hexapod  environment surfaces  Legged locomotion  Planning  Trajectory  Collision avoidance  Robot motion 
Abstract: This paper presents the motion planning framework for a hexapod, based on advanced motions, for accessing challenging spaces, namely narrow pathways and large holes, both of which are surrounded by walls. The advanced motions, wall and chimney walking, utilise environment surfaces that are perpendicular to the ground plane to support the robot motion. Such techniques have not yet been studied in the literature. The hierarchical planning framework proposed here is an extension to existing approaches which have only considered ground walking where foothold contacts are confined to the ground plane. During the pre-processing phase of the 2.5D grid map, the motion primitives employed are assessed for each cell and stacked to the graph if valid. The A* algorithm is then used to find a path to the goal position. Following that, the path is post-processed to smoothen the motions and generate a continuous path. Footholds are then selected along the path. The framework has been evaluated in simulation on the custom-designed Corin hexapod. The resulting path enables access to areas that are previously thought to be inaccessible and reduces the travelling distance compared to previous studies.


Title: Progress and Prospects of EAST Remote Maintenance System
Key Words: automatic optical inspection  edge detection  fusion reactor instrumentation  grippers  inspection  maintenance engineering  nuclear power stations  object detection  plasma toroidal confinement  power system control  robot vision  service robots  Tokamak devices  light maintenance capability  tokamak condition  EAST remote maintenance system  grasping tasks  EAMA robot  EAST articulated maintenance arm  EAMA control system  EAST tokamak  CIVIS  CFETR in-vessel inspection system  Maintenance engineering  Inspection  Solid modeling  Manipulators  Robot sensing systems 
Abstract: Fast inspection and light maintenance capability is already a clear demand to control the tokamak condition and improve the efficiency of the experimental campaigns. EAST remote maintenance system has been developed to implement inspection and grasping tasks during plasma. The paper presents design description of EAMA (EAST articulated maintenance arm) robot, the gripper and the CASK. The field commissioning was performed both in mockup and EAST tokamak to demonstrate the availability and functionalities of EAMA system. To be able to realize fully routine operation on EAST, improvement of EAMA control system was proposed with integration developed algorithm, such as the robot flexible model modeling, vision servo, motion planning, etc. Finally, thoughts for CFETR In-Vessel Inspection System (CIVIS) are given.


Title: A Novel OCR-RCNN for Elevator Button Recognition
Key Words: learning (artificial intelligence)  neurocontrollers  optical character recognition  path planning  recurrent neural nets  robot vision  service robots  autonomous elevator operation  inter-floor navigation problem  elevator button recognition  severe class imbalance problem  optical character recognition network  Faster RCNN architecture  elevator panels  OCR-RCNN architecture  service robots  image conditions  Elevators  Optical character recognition software  Proposals  Task analysis  Feature extraction  Training  Pipelines 
Abstract: Autonomous elevator operation is considered an intelligent solution in handling the inter-floor navigation problem of service robots. As one of the most fundamental steps, elevator button recognition starts to receive more and more attention. However, due to the challenging image conditions and severe class imbalance problem, the performance of existing results is unsatisfying. In this paper, we propose to combine an optical character recognition (OCR) network and the Faster RCNN architecture into a single neural network, called OCR-RCNN to facilitate an end-to-end training and elevator button recognition procedure. To verify our method, we collect a large dataset of elevator panels and carry out extensive comparative experiments. The experiment results show that our method can greatly outperform the traditional recognition pipelines, yielding an accurate and robust performance on recognizing untrained elevator buttons.


Title: Learning Implicit Sampling Distributions for Motion Planning
Key Words: learning (artificial intelligence)  manipulators  mobile robots  path planning  sampling methods  search problems  implicit sampling distributions  motion planning  sampling-based motion planners  state space  sampling distribution  hand selected heuristics  policy-search based method  sampling-based planners  7DOF robot arm  Planning  Task analysis  Probability distribution  Manipulators  Space exploration  Collision avoidance 
Abstract: Sampling-based motion planners have experienced much success due to their ability to efficiently and evenly explore the state space. However, for many tasks, it may be more efficient to not uniformly explore the state space, especially when there is prior information about its structure. Previous methods have attempted to modify the sampling distribution using hand selected heuristics that can work well for specific environments but not universally. In this paper, a policy-search based method is presented as an adaptive way to learn implicit sampling distributions for different environments. It utilizes information from past searches in similar environments to generate better distributions in novel environments, thus reducing overall computational cost. Our method can be incorporated with a variety of sampling-based planners to improve performance. Our approach is validated on a number of tasks, including a 7DOF robot arm, showing marked improvement in number of collision checks as well as number of nodes expanded compared with baseline methods.


Title: Visibility-Based Monitoring of a Path Using a Heterogeneous Robot Team
Key Words: aerospace robotics  dynamic programming  integer programming  linear programming  mobile robots  multi-robot systems  path planning  visibility-based monitoring  heterogeneous robot team  terrain path  aerial robots  route planning  dynamic programming approach  integer linear programming solution  ground robots  Unmanned aerial vehicles  Robot sensing systems  Educational robots  Monitoring  Dynamic programming  Integrated circuits 
Abstract: We address the problem of visually monitoring a terrain path using ground and aerial robots. This is a coupled problem that involves computation of a guard set for the environment and route planning for a heterogeneous group of robots through the points in the guard set. A terrain path that needs to be monitored can be transformed to generate a 1.5D terrain and robot paths can be modeled as chain visible curves to the terrain to ensure visibility. To efficiently monitor this 1.5D terrain, we present two solutions - a dynamic programming approach that finds the optimal solution but is slower and a integer linear programming solution that is faster in practice and that can take more constraints into account. We perform extensive simulations and do a comparative analysis of the two solution techniques.


Title: Stable, Autonomous, Unknown Terrain Locomotion for Quadrupeds Based on Visual Feedback and Mixed-Integer Convex Optimization
Key Words: convex programming  integer programming  legged locomotion  motion control  path planning  quadratic programming  robot vision  visual feedback  mixed-integer convex optimization  complete motion planning approach  quadruped locomotion  convex polygons  potentially feasible foothold regions  feasible destination planner  extracted polygons  footstep planner  mass trajectory planner  path planner  stable terrain locomotion  autonomous terrain locomotion  unknown terrain locomotion  quadrupeds  feasible goal position  ALPHRED  Optimization  Trajectory  Legged locomotion  Planning  Three-dimensional displays 
Abstract: This paper presents a complete motion planning approach for quadruped locomotion across an unknown terrain using a framework based on mixed-integer convex optimization and visual feedback. Vision data is used to find convex polygons in the surrounding environment, which acts as potentially feasible foothold regions. Then, a goal position is initially provided, which the best feasible destination planner uses to solve for an actual feasible goal position based on the extracted polygons. Next, a footstep planner uses the feasible goal position to plan a fixed number of footsteps, which may or may not result in the robot reaching the position. The center of mass (COM) trajectory planner using quadratic programming is extended to solve for a trajectory in 3D space while maintaining convexity, which reduces the computation time, allowing the robot to plan and execute motions online. The suggested method is implemented as a policy rather than a path planner, but its performance as a path planner is also shown. The approach is verified on both simulation and on a physical robot, ALPHRED, walking on various unknown terrains.


Title: Iterative Learning of Energy-Efficient Dynamic Walking Gaits
Key Words: iterative methods  learning systems  legged locomotion  motion control  robot dynamics  energy-efficient dynamic walking gaits  dynamic walking robots  lifelike locomotion  efficient gaits  Iterative Learning Control  control signal  periodic reference  terminal ILC  dynamic walking robot gaits  final foot placement  energy efficiency  phase-indexed TILC  energy-efficient walking motion  time-indexed TILC  Legged locomotion  Computational modeling  Data models  Foot  Planning  Convergence 
Abstract: Dynamic walking robots have the potential for efficient and lifelike locomotion, but computing efficient gaits and tracking them is difficult in the presence of under-modeling. Iterative Learning Control (ILC) is a method to learn the control signal to track a periodic reference over several attempts, augmenting a model with online data. Terminal ILC (TILC), a variant of ILC, allows other performance objectives to be addressed at the cost of ignoring parts of the reference. However, dynamic walking robot gaits are not necessarily periodic in time. In this paper, we adapt TILC to jointly optimize final foot placement and energy efficiency on dynamic walking robots by indexing by a phase variable instead of time, yielding “phase-indexed TILC” (θ - TILC). When implemented on a five-link walker in simulation, θ- TILC learns a more energy-efficient walking motion compared to traditional time-indexed TILC.


Title: Vessel Pose Estimation for Obstacle Avoidance in Needle Steering Surgery Using Multiple Forward Looking Sensors
Key Words: biomedical optical imaging  blood vessels  brain  collision avoidance  Doppler measurement  image motion analysis  laser applications in medicine  medical image processing  medical robotics  needles  pose estimation  steering systems  surgery  percutaneous procedures  hemorrhage  vessel motion  tissue bulk motion  Doppler signals  multiple forward looking sensors  preoperative imaging modalities  vessel pose estimation  needle steering systems  robotic assisted needle insertion process  vessel detection  biologically inspired steerable needle  laser Doppler flowmetry  life threatening complications  percutaneous interventions  needle steering surgery  obstacle avoidance  Needles  Probes  Phantoms  Sensors  Doppler effect  Gold  Grey matter 
Abstract: During percutaneous interventions in the brain, puncturing a vessel can cause life threatening complications. To avoid such a risk, current research has been directed towards the development of steerable needles. However, there is a risk that vessels of a size which is close to or smaller than the resolution of commonly used preoperative imaging modalities (0.59 × 0.59 × 1 mm) would not be detected during procedure planning, with a consequent increase in risk to the patient. In this work, we present a novel ensemble of forward looking sensors based on laser Doppler flowmetry, which are embedded within a biologically inspired steerable needle to enable vessel detection during the insertion process. Four Doppler signals are used to classify the pose of a vessel in front of the advancing needle with a high degree of accuracy (2° and 0.1 mm RMS errors), where relative measurements between sensors are used to correct for ambiguity. By using a robotic assisted needle insertion process, and thus a precisely controlled insertion speed, we also demonstrate how the setup can be used to discriminate between tissue bulk motion and vessel motion. In doing so, we describe a sensing apparatus applicable to a variety of needle steering systems, with the potential to eliminate the risk of hemorrhage during percutaneous procedures.


Title: Trajectory Optimization of Robot-Assisted Endovascular Catheterization with Reinforcement Learning
Key Words: blood vessels  cardiovascular system  catheters  diagnostic radiography  learning (artificial intelligence)  manipulator dynamics  medical image processing  medical robotics  mobile robots  path planning  patient treatment  surgery  telerobotics  catheter manipulation  learning-based robotic catheterization platform  dynamic movement primitives  catheterization tasks  customized robotic manipulator  robotic trajectories  catheter tip  hands-on robotic navigation platforms  trajectory optimization  robot-assisted endovascular catheterization  flow simulations  X-ray radiation reduction  path integral RL  path integral reinforcement learning  Robots  Catheters  Task analysis  Catheterization  Surgery  Trajectory  Navigation 
Abstract: Emerging robot-assisted endovascular intervention has the potential to reduce X-ray radiations to the operator while enhancing the stability and dexterity of catheter manipulation. Supervised and shared autonomy of endovascular procedures could add further improvements in reduced fatigue and cognitive workloads of the operator, higher success rates of cannulation and improved surgical outcomes. However, robotic path planning for endovascular procedure is challenging due to complex and non-linear flow dynamics inside the vasculature. This paper presents a learning-based robotic catheterization platform addressing those challenges, this approach incorporates path integral reinforcement learning (RL) framework based on dynamic movement primitives (DMP) to enhance catheterization tasks by a customized robotic manipulator. The robotic trajectories were optimized through RL in order to avoid unwanted contacts between the catheter tip and the vessel wall. The proposed methods can adapt to different flow simulations, vascular models, and catheterization tasks. The quality of the catheterization was evaluated with performance metrics. The results show significant refinement of catheter paths by the proposed approach, resulting in shorter overall lengths and fewer contact forces, which can potentially reduce risks in endothelial wall damages, embolization, and stroke. The results support the development of robotic path planning for endovascular procedures as well as designing intelligent, hands-on robotic navigation platforms.


Title: A Novel Shared Position Control Method for Robot Navigation Via Low Throughput Human-Machine Interfaces
Key Words: mobile robots  motion control  path planning  position control  user interfaces  wheelchairs  shared position control method  inference parallelization  low throughput human-machine interfaces  robot navigation  robotic wheelchair  circular massless holonomic robot  robot motion  single switch interface  brain-computer interface  Navigation  Wheelchairs  Mobile robots  Position control  Linear systems  Throughput 
Abstract: In this paper, we analyze systems with low throughput human-machine interfaces (such as a brain-computer interface, single switch interface) from the controls perspective. We develop some principles for performance improvement in such systems based on the parallelization of inference and robot motion. The proposed principles are used to design a novel shared position control to navigate a circular massless holonomic robot in a known environment. The system is implemented in simulation and integrated with a real robotic wheelchair. Robot experiments demonstrated the viability of the proposed navigation method in various modes of operation.


Title: Underwater Surveying via Bearing Only Cooperative Localization
Key Words: mobile robots  path planning  remotely operated vehicles  underwater vehicles  bearing only cooperative localization  aerial ground vehicles  underwater domain  robotic applications  cave mapping  marine archeology surveying  fresh water  South Carolina  visibility conditions  depth sensors  magnetic sensors  inertial sensors  Florida  Barbados  Cameras  Springs  Robot kinematics  Lakes  Robot sensing systems 
Abstract: Bearing only cooperative localization has been used successfully on aerial and ground vehicles. In this paper we present an extension of the approach to the underwater domain. The focus is on adapting the technique to handle the challenging visibility conditions underwater. Furthermore, data from inertial, magnetic, and depth sensors are utilized to improve the robustness of the estimation. In addition to robotic applications, the presented technique can be used for cave mapping and for marine archeology surveying, both by human divers. Experimental results from different environments, including a fresh water, low visibility, lake in South Carolina; a cavern in Florida; and coral reefs in Barbados during the day and during the night, validate the robustness and the accuracy of the proposed approach.


Title: Interaction-Aware Probabilistic Behavior Prediction in Urban Environments
Key Words: Bayes methods  belief networks  control engineering computing  driver information systems  inference mechanisms  Markov processes  mobile robots  Monte Carlo methods  probability  road vehicles  traffic engineering computing  combinatorial scene developments  road layouts  future scenes  probabilistic forward simulation  sequential Monte Carlo inference  single agents  context-dependent motion models  complete scene  dynamic Bayesian network  probabilistic prediction framework  mutual interaction  traffic rules  road-geometry  route intentions  traffic participants  urban scenarios  complex scenarios  autonomous driving  urban environments  interaction-aware probabilistic behavior prediction  interaction-unaware physics  real-world scenarios  Trajectory  Estimation  Vehicles  Probabilistic logic  Hidden Markov models  Predictive models  Bayes methods 
Abstract: Planning for autonomous driving in complex, urban scenarios requires accurate prediction of the trajectories of surrounding traffic participants. Their future behavior depends on their route intentions, the road-geometry, traffic rules and mutual interaction, resulting in interdependencies between their trajectories. We present a probabilistic prediction framework based on a dynamic Bayesian network, which represents the state of the complete scene including all agents and respects the aforementioned dependencies. We propose Markovian, context-dependent motion models to define the interaction-aware behavior of drivers. At first, the state of the dynamic Bayesian network is estimated over time by tracking the single agents via sequential Monte Carlo inference. Secondly, we perform a probabilistic forward simulation of the network's estimated belief state to generate the different combinatorial scene developments. This provides the corresponding trajectories for the set of possible, future scenes. Our framework can handle various road layouts and number of traffic participants. We evaluate the approach in online simulations and real-world scenarios. It is shown that our interaction-aware prediction outperforms interaction-unaware physics- and map-based approaches.


Title: An Adaptive Robotic Gripper with L-Shape Fingers for Peg-in-Hole Tasks
Key Words: force sensors  grippers  mobile robots  adaptive robotic gripper  L-shape finger  peg-in-hole process  force sensor  IREX  international robotic exhibition 2017  Grippers  Task analysis  Uncertainty  Manufacturing processes  Robot sensing systems  Planning 
Abstract: This paper develops an adaptive gripper for peg-in-hole tasks. Conventional grippers require complicated compliant mechanisms or complicated control strategy and force sensing to successfully insert pegs into holes. Different from them, this paper proposes a simple gripper with an L-shape finger as a low-cost peg-in-hole solution. The basic idea is to divide a peg-in-hole process into a preparation phase and an execution phase, and eliminate uncertainty step-by-step by pushing using the L-shape finger in the preparation phase. The robustness of the gripper for peg-in-hole tasks is examined by repeated executions for different pegs in the International Robotic Exhibition 2017 (IREX) in Tokyo. The experimental section presents details of the executions, and qualitatively shows the high performance of the proposed gripper.


Title: Real-Time Grasp Planning for Multi-Fingered Hands by Finger Splitting
Key Words: grippers  iterative methods  learning (artificial intelligence)  optimisation  time grasp planning  multifingered hands  traditional planning methods  optimal parallel grasps  dual-stage iterative optimization  contact point optimization  finger splitting  Optimization  Planning  Grippers  Search problems  Grasping  Databases  Real-time systems 
Abstract: Grasp planning for multi-fingered hands is computationally expensive due to the joint-contact coupling, surface nonlinearities and high dimensionality, thus is generally not affordable for real-time implementations. Traditional planning methods by optimization, sampling or learning work well in planning for parallel grippers but remain challenging for multi-fingered hands. This paper proposes a strategy called finger splitting, to plan precision grasps for multi-fingered hands starting from optimal parallel grasps. The finger splitting is optimized by a dual-stage iterative optimization including a contact point optimization (CPO) and a palm pose optimization (PPO), to gradually split fingers and adjust both the contact points and the palm pose. The dual-stage optimization is able to consider both the object grasp quality and hand manipulability, address the nonlinearities and coupling, and achieve efficient convergence within one second. Simulation results demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed approach. The simulation video is available at [1].


Title: Interleaving Hierarchical Task Planning and Motion Constraint Testing for Dual-Arm Manipulation
Key Words: control engineering computing  geometry  inference mechanisms  manipulators  path planning  planning (artificial intelligence)  dual-arm manipulation  symbolic planning  reasoning capabilities  robotic manipulators  geometric constraint verification  Barrett WAM robots  geometric puzzle  hierarchical task network planner  hierarchical task planning  motion constraint testing  motion planning  Task analysis  Planning  Uncertainty  Shape  Manipulators  Cameras 
Abstract: In recent years the topic of combining motion and symbolic planning to perform complex tasks in the field of robotics has received a lot of attention. The underlying idea is to have access at once to the reasoning capabilities of a task planner and to the ability of the motion planner to verify that the plan is feasible from a physical and geometrical point of view. The present work describes a framework to perform manipulation tasks that require the use of two robotic manipulators. To do so we employ a Hierarchical Task Network (HTN) planner interleaved with geometric constraint verification. In this framework we also consider observation actions and handle noisy perceptions from a probabilistic perspective. These ideas are put into practice by means of an experimental set-up in which two Barrett WAM robots have to cooperatively solve a geometric puzzle. Our findings provide further evidence that considering explicitly physical constraints during task planning, rather than deferring their validation to the moment of execution, is advantageous in terms of execution time and breadth of situations that can be handled.


Title: Active Model Learning and Diverse Action Sampling for Task and Motion Planning
Key Words: Gaussian processes  learning (artificial intelligence)  mobile robots  path planning  sampling methods  complex domains  flexible generative planning  state-of-the-art methods  active learning  Gaussian process methods  operator effectiveness  adaptive sampling methods  diverse elements  robot configurations  object poses  newly learned models  long horizon problems  active model learning  action sampling  motion planning  sensorimotor primitives  complex long-horizon problems  continuous-space robot task  Planning  Task analysis  Level set  Robot sensing systems  Gaussian processes  Training 
Abstract: The objective of this work is to augment the basic abilities of a robot by learning to use new sensorimotor primitives to enable the solution of complex long-horizon problems. Solving long-horizon problems in complex domains requires flexible generative planning that can combine primitive abilities in novel combinations to solve problems as they arise in the world. In order to plan to combine primitive actions, we must have models of the preconditions and effects of those actions: under what circumstances will executing this primitive achieve some particular effect in the world? We use, and develop novel improvements on, state-of-the-art methods for active learning and sampling. We use Gaussian process methods for learning the conditions of operator effectiveness from small numbers of expensive training examples collected by experimentation on a robot. We develop adaptive sampling methods for generating diverse elements of continuous sets (such as robot configurations and object poses) during planning for solving a new task, so that planning is as efficient as possible. We demonstrate these methods in an integrated system, combining newly learned models with an efficient continuous-space robot task and motion planner to learn to solve long horizon problems more efficiently than was previously possible.


Title: SwarmTouch: Tactile Interaction of Human with Impedance Controlled Swarm of Nano-Quadrotors
Key Words: aircraft control  autonomous aerial vehicles  human-robot interaction  microrobots  multi-robot systems  path planning  tactile sensors  trajectory control  impedance controlled swarm  nanoquadrotors  novel interaction strategy  human-swarm communication  human operator guides  quadrotors  impedance control  human hand velocity  formation shape  Crazyflie 2.0 quadrotor platform  control algorithm  tactile patterns  controllability  complex life-like formation  tactile sensation  drone formation  human-swarm interaction  swarm navigation  Impedance  Drones  Robots  Mathematical model  Shape  Force  Safety 
Abstract: We propose a novel interaction strategy for a human-swarm communication when a human operator guides a formation of quadrotors with impedance control and receives vibrotactile feedback. The presented approach takes into account the human hand velocity and changes the formation shape and dynamics accordingly using impedance interlinks simulated between quadrotors, which helps to achieve a life-like swarm behavior. Experimental results with Crazyflie 2.0 quadrotor platform validate the proposed control algorithm. The tactile patterns representing dynamics of the swarm (extension or contraction) are proposed. The user feels the state of the swarm at his fingertips and receives valuable information to improve the controllability of the complex life-like formation. The user study revealed the patterns with high recognition rates. Subjects stated that tactile sensation improves the ability to guide the drone formation and makes the human-swarm communication much more interactive. The proposed technology can potentially have a strong impact on the human-swarm interaction, providing a new level of intuitiveness and immersion into the swarm navigation.


Title: Learning Synergies Between Pushing and Grasping with Self-Supervised Deep Reinforcement Learning
Key Words: convolutional neural nets  end effectors  learning (artificial intelligence)  motion control  neurocontrollers  learning synergies  self-supervised deep reinforcement learning  cluttered objects  pushing movements  model-free deep reinforcement learning  fully convolutional networks  end-effector orientations  Q-learning framework  pushing motions  grasping success rates  picking efficiencies  skilled robotic manipulation  grasping  prehensile action  pixel-wise sampling  Grasping  Training  Three-dimensional displays  Reinforcement learning  Planning  Manipulators 
Abstract: Skilled robotic manipulation benefits from complex synergies between non-prehensile (e.g. pushing) and prehensile (e.g. grasping) actions: pushing can help rearrange cluttered objects to make space for arms and fingers; likewise, grasping can help displace objects to make pushing movements more precise and collision-free. In this work, we demonstrate that it is possible to discover and learn these synergies from scratch through model-free deep reinforcement learning. Our method involves training two fully convolutional networks that map from visual observations to actions: one infers the utility of pushes for a dense pixel-wise sampling of end-effector orientations and locations, while the other does the same for grasping. Both networks are trained jointly in a Q-learning framework and are entirely self-supervised by trial and error, where rewards are provided from successful grasps. In this way, our policy learns pushing motions that enable future grasps, while learning grasps that can leverage past pushes. During picking experiments in both simulation and real-world scenarios, we find that our system quickly learns complex behaviors even amid challenging cases of tightly packed clutter, and achieves better grasping success rates and picking efficiencies than baseline alternatives after a few hours of training. We further demonstrate that our method is capable of generalizing to novel objects. Qualitative results (videos), code, pre-trained models, and simulation environments are available at http://vpg.cs.princeton.edu/


Title: Reach-Avoid Problems via Sum-or-Squares Optimization and Dynamic Programming
Key Words: dynamic programming  reachability analysis  state-space methods  reach-avoid problem  dynamic programming  sum-of-squares optimization  polynomial system dynamics  mathematical guarantees  Optimization  Dynamic programming  System dynamics  Games  Planning  Automobiles  Vehicle dynamics 
Abstract: Reach-avoid problems involve driving a system to a set of desirable configurations while keeping it away from undesirable ones. Providing mathematical guarantees for such scenarios is challenging but have numerous potential practical applications. Due to the challenges, analysis of reach-avoid problems involves making trade-offs between generality of system dynamics, generality of problem setups, optimality of solutions, and computational complexity. In this paper, we combine sum-of-squares optimization and dynamic programming to address the reach-avoid problem, and provide a conservative solution that maintains reaching and avoidance guarantees. Our method is applicable to polynomial system dynamics and to general problem setups, and is more computationally scalable than previous related methods. Through a numerical example involving two single integrators, we validate our proposed theory and compare our method to Hamilton-Jacobi reachability. Having validated our theory, we demonstrate the computational scalability of our method by computing the reach-avoid set of a system involving two kinematic cars.


Title: Collaborative Planning for Mixed-Autonomy Lane Merging
Key Words: control engineering computing  decision making  driver information systems  game theory  mobile robots  multi-agent systems  path planning  road traffic  road vehicles  collaborative planning  social activity  mixed-autonomy traffic  Human-driven Vehicle  HV  Autonomous Vehicle drive  AV  planning framework  two-lane highway  double lane merging  collaborative decision making  mixed-autonomy lane merging  Automobiles  Planning  Merging  Collaboration  Robots  Autonomous vehicles 
Abstract: Driving is a social activity: drivers often indicate their intent to change lanes via motion cues. We consider mixed-autonomy traffic where a Human-driven Vehicle (HV) and an Autonomous Vehicle (AV) drive together. We propose a planning framework where the degree to which the AV considers the other agent's reward is controlled by a selfishness factor. We test our approach on a simulated two-lane highway where the AV and HV merge into each other's lanes. In a user study with 21 subjects and 6 different selfishness factors, we found that our planning approach was sound and that both agents had less merging times when a factor that balances the rewards for the two agents was chosen. Our results on double lane merging suggest it to be a non-zero-sum game and encourage further investigation on collaborative decision making algorithms for mixed-autonomy traffic.


Title: The Socially Invisible Robot Navigation in the Social World Using Robot Entitativity
Key Words: human-robot interaction  multi-robot systems  navigation  path planning  simulated robot-human interaction scenarios  entitative robots  strong emotional reactions  socially invisible robot navigation  robot entitativity  data-driven algorithm  navigational algorithms  trajectory computation  multirobot systems  Trajectory  Navigation  Psychology  Computational modeling  Surveillance  Robot kinematics 
Abstract: We present a real-time, data-driven algorithm to enhance the social-invisibility of robots within crowds. Our approach is based on prior psychological research, which reveals that people notice and-importantly-react negatively to groups of social actors when they have high entitativity, moving in a tight group with similar appearances and trajectories. In order to evaluate that behavior, we performed a user study to develop navigational algorithms that minimize entitativity. This study establishes mapping between emotional reactions and multi-robot trajectories and appearances, and further generalizes the finding across various environmental conditions. We demonstrate the applicability of our entitativity modeling for trajectory computation for active surveillance and dynamic intervention in simulated robot-human interaction scenarios. Our approach empirically shows that various levels of entitative robots can be used to both avoid and influence pedestrians while not eliciting strong emotional reactions, giving multi-robot systems socially-invisibility.


Title: Projection-Aware Task Planning and Execution for Human-in-the-Loop Operation of Robots in a Mixed-Reality Workspace
Key Words: control engineering computing  human-robot interaction  planning (artificial intelligence)  virtual reality  mixed-reality technologies  human-robot interaction  HoloLens  human-in-the-loop operation  projection-aware task planning capabilities  Robots  Task analysis  Planning  Virtual reality  Observers  Vocabulary  Natural languages 
Abstract: Recent advances in mixed-reality technologies have renewed interest in alternative modes of communication for human-robot interaction. However, most of the work in this direction has been confined to tasks such as teleoperation, simulation or explication of individual actions of a robot. In this paper, we will discuss how the capability to project intentions affect the task planning capabilities of a robot. Specifically, we will start with a discussion on how projection actions can be used to reveal information regarding the future intentions of the robot at the time of task execution. We will then pose a new planning paradigm - projection-aware planning - whereby a robot can trade off its plan cost with its ability to reveal its intentions using its projection actions. We will demonstrate each of these scenarios with the help of a joint human-robot activity using the HoloLens.


Title: Search-Based Optimal Motion Planning for Automated Driving
Key Words: mobile robots  optimisation  path planning  road vehicles  search problems  trajectory control  automated driving  fast motion planning  robust motion planning  real-time computation  urban conditions  convenient geometrical representation  search space  driving constraints  classical path planning approach  exact cost-to-go map  optimal motion trajectory  time horizons  fast driving conditions  slow driving conditions  search-based optimal motion planning  Planning  Vehicle dynamics  Trajectory  Dynamics  Roads  Search problems  Automation  motion planning  automated driving  lane change  multi-lane driving  traffic lights  A* search  MPC 
Abstract: This paper presents a framework for fast and robust motion planning designed to facilitate automated driving. The framework allows for real-time computation even for horizons of several hundred meters and thus enabling automated driving in urban conditions. This is achieved through several features. Firstly, a convenient geometrical representation of both the search space and driving constraints enables the use of classical path planning approach. Thus, a wide variety of constraints can be tackled simultaneously (other vehicles, traffic lights, etc.). Secondly, an exact cost-to-go map, obtained by solving a relaxed problem, is then used by A*-based algorithm with model predictive flavour in order to compute the optimal motion trajectory. The algorithm takes into account both distance and time horizons. The approach is validated within a simulation study with realistic traffic scenarios. We demonstrate the capability of the algorithm to devise plans both in fast and slow driving conditions, even when full stop is required.


Title: Transferable Pedestrian Motion Prediction Models at Intersections
Key Words: automobiles  feature selection  learning (artificial intelligence)  mobile robots  pedestrians  road safety  statistical analysis  trajectory control  autonomous cars  transfer learning algorithms  pedestrian trajectories  transferable pedestrian motion prediction algorithm  trajectory planning  inverse reinforcement learning  feature selection  IRL  augmented seminonnegative sparse coding  ASNSC  Trajectory  Hidden Markov models  Semantics  Predictive models  Prediction algorithms  Feature extraction  Reinforcement learning 
Abstract: One desirable capability of autonomous cars is to accurately predict the pedestrian motion near intersections for safe and efficient trajectory planning. We are interested in developing transfer learning algorithms that can be trained on the pedestrian trajectories collected at one intersection and yet still provide accurate predictions of the trajectories at another, previously unseen intersection. We first discussed the feature selection for transferable pedestrian motion models in general. Following this discussion, we developed one transferable pedestrian motion prediction algorithm based on Inverse Reinforcement Learning (IRL) that infers pedestrian intentions and predicts future trajectories based on observed trajectory. We evaluated our algorithm at three intersections. We used the accuracy of augmented semi-nonnegative sparse coding (ASNSC), trained and tested at the same intersection as a baseline. The result shows that the proposed algorithm improves the baseline accuracy by a statistically significant percentage in both non-transfer task and transfer task.


Title: Model-Free Grasp Planning for Configurable Vacuum Grippers
Key Words: data acquisition  dexterous manipulators  grippers  path planning  robot vision  model-free grasp planning  adequate sensor-based surface acquisition  two-step 3D data acquisition approach  action execution  iterative grasp planning  visual detection  arbitrary suction cups  contact surfaces  formalized aspects  arbitrary positions  robustly grasp unknown objects  grasp planner  robot arm  visual sensor  dynamically configurable vacuum gripper  robot system  optimal grasp configurations  configurable vacuum gripper system  Grippers  Three-dimensional displays  Planning  Grasping  Robot sensing systems  Force 
Abstract: A concept consisting of a new configurable vacuum gripper system and a corresponding method for determining optimal grasp configurations solely based on 3D vision is introduced. The robot system consists of a dynamically configurable vacuum gripper, a visual sensor, and a robot arm that are used in combination with a new grasp planner to robustly grasp unknown objects in arbitrary positions. For this purpose, formalized aspects of selecting contact surfaces for arbitrary suction cups are described; the concept involves visual detection of the objects, segmentation, iterative grasp planning, and action execution. The approach allows for a fast and efficient, yet precise execution of grasps. The core idea is a two-step 3D data acquisition approach and grasp point computation that takes advantage of the fact that the suction cups of the gripper can all be aligned axis-parallel. Therefore, an adequate sensor-based surface acquisition is done from a single viewpoint with respect to the gripper. Results of realworld experiments show that the proposed concept is suitable for a wide range of different and unknown objects in our setup.


Title: Online Adaptation of Robot Pushing Control to Object Properties
Key Words: learning (artificial intelligence)  manipulators  mobile robots  path planning  unknown objects  data-driven approach  local inverse models  robot-object interaction  push manipulation  object behaviour  maximum a posteriori estimation  pushing objects  holonomic mobile robot base  diverse object set  learned inverse models  object properties  online adaptation  robot pushing control  robotic scenarios  real-world environments  MAP  Inverse problems  Adaptation models  Robot kinematics  Friction  Feedforward systems  Task analysis 
Abstract: Pushing is a common task in robotic scenarios. In real-world environments, robots need to manipulate various unknown objects without previous experience. We propose a data-driven approach for learning local inverse models of robot-object interaction for push manipulation. The robot makes observations of the object behaviour on the fly and adapts its movement direction. The proposed model is probabilistic, and we update it using maximum a posteriori (MAP) estimation. We test our method by pushing objects with a holonomic mobile robot base. Validation of results over a diverse object set demonstrates a high degree of robustness and a high success rate in pushing objects towards a fixed target and along a path compared to previous methods. Moreover, based on learned inverse models, the robot can learn object properties and distinguish between different object behaviours when they are pushed from different sides.


Title: Through-the-Lens Drone Filming
Key Words: autonomous aerial vehicles  cameras  feature extraction  Global Positioning System  image motion analysis  image sensors  mobile robots  pose estimation  robot vision  video signal processing  image composition  monocular 3D human pose estimation  drone control system  drone filming system  wearable GPS-based sensors  wearable infrared-based sensors  through-the-lens drone filming  aerial filming  camera control  drone hardware  human actions  drone camera system  through-the-lens camera planning  flight control  through-the-lens drone  wearable-sensor-based solutions  drone platform  outdoor environments  human movement  remote controller  action scenes  Cameras  Drones  Three-dimensional displays  Sensors  Pose estimation  Solid modeling  Two dimensional displays 
Abstract: Aerial filming in action scenes using a drone is difficult for inexperienced flyers because manipulating a remote controller and meeting the desired image composition are two independent, while concurrent, tasks. Existing systems attempt to utilize wearable GPS-based or infrared-based sensors to track the human movement and to assist in capturing footage. However, these sensors work only in either indoor (infrared-based) or outdoor environments (GPS-based), but not both. In this paper, we introduce a novel drone filming system which integrates monocular 3D human pose estimation and localization into a drone platform to remove the constraints imposed by wearable-sensor-based solutions. Meanwhile, given the estimated position, we propose a novel drone control system, called “through-the-lens drone filming”, to allow a cameraman to conveniently control the drone by manipulating a 3D model in the preview, which closes the gap between the flight control and the viewpoint design. Our system includes two key enabling techniques: 1) subject localization based on visual-inertial fusion, and 2) through-the-lens camera planning. This is the first drone camera system which allows users to capture human actions by manipulating the camera in a virtual environment. From the drone hardware, we integrate a gimbal camera and two GPUs into the limited space of a drone and demonstrate the feasibility of running the entire system onboard with insignificant delays, which are sufficient for filming in our real-time application. Experimental results, in both simulation and real-world scenarios, demonstrate that our techniques can greatly ease camera control and capture better videos.


Title: Planning to Monitor Wildfires with a Fleet of UAVs
Key Words: autonomous aerial vehicles  emergency management  fires  path planning  search problems  wildfires  fire propagation process  observation trajectories  fire model  wildfire monitoring  variable neighborhood search method  fixed-wing UAV fleet  Trajectory  Monitoring  Cameras  Ignition  Planning  Fuels  Shape 
Abstract: We present an approach to plan trajectories for a fleet of fixed-wing UAVs to observe a wildfire evolving over time. Realistic models of the terrain, of the fire propagation process, and of the UAVs are exploited, together with a model of the wind. The approach tailors a generic Variable Neighborhood Search method to these models and associated constraints. Simulation results show ability to plan observation trajectories for a small fleet of UAVs, and to update the plans when new information on the fire are incorporated in the fire model.


Title: Flight Motion of Passing Through Small Opening by DRAGON: Transformable Multilinked Aerial Robot
Key Words: aerospace control  aerospace robotics  aircraft control  autonomous aerial vehicles  collision avoidance  mobile robots  path planning  robot dynamics  stability  multilinked model  near-hover condition  motion sequence  improved dynamics derivation  flight control method  flight stability  small opening  flight motion  transformable multilinked aerial robot  multilinked robot  transformable aerial robot  under-actuated multirotors  aggressive maneuvering  necessary condition  crucial problems  unknown obstacle  multirotor  robot body  Unmanned aerial vehicles  Rotors  Collision avoidance  Path planning  Stability analysis  Robot sensing systems 
Abstract: In this paper, we introduce the achievement of the flight motion to pass through small opening by the multilinked and transformable aerial robot. Previous works about such motion are based on under-actuated multirotors, indicating that aggressive maneuvering is necessary condition. This involves two crucial problems: i) enough free space for deceleration is necessary, otherwise the robot would collide with unknown obstacle after exiting opening; ii) the multirotor can not traverse the openings that are smaller than the robot body. The proposed transformable aerial robot in our work can solve these problems, since the multilinked model can not only guarantee the near-hover condition during the whole motion sequence, but also slowly traverse relative small openings by changing its form like a snake. We first propose an improved dynamics derivation and flight control method for this multilinked aerial robot based on our previous work. Then, we present the path planning method which takes the flight stability in the near-hover condition into account. Finally we demonstrate the experimental results of the motion to pass through a horizontal and small opening which also involves the borders (the floor and the ceiling).


Title: Optimal Constrained Trajectory Generation for Quadrotors Through Smoothing Splines
Key Words: autonomous aerial vehicles  helicopters  optimisation  path planning  splines (mathematics)  time optimal control  trajectory control  vehicles physical limits  large-scale fitting problem  human sketching  optimal constrained trajectory generation  inequality constraints  closed-form solution  safe flying zones  interval-wise constraints  axes-coupled  time optimal control techniques  polynomial splines  optimal smoothing B-spline  quadrotors  Trajectory  Splines (mathematics)  Optimization  Smoothing methods  Closed-form solutions  Space vehicles  Safety 
Abstract: In this paper, we present a trajectory generation method for quadrotors based on the optimal smoothing B-spline. Compared to existing methods which rely on polynomial splines or time optimal control techniques, our method systematically addresses the issue of axes-coupled and interval-wise constraints. These constraints can be used to construct safe flying zones and satisfy vehicle's physical limits. The proposed approach has also been extended to generate trajectories from the nominal plan which consists of not only points but also lines and planes, opening a door for new improvements and applications. Moreover, a closed-form solution can be obtained for cases without inequality constraints. Such a solution is numerically stable for the large-scale fitting problem, which allows us to directly fit the human sketching input from the touch device and capture all subtle details. Our approach is verified by various real flight experiments..


Title: Decentralised Mission Monitoring with Spatiotemporal Optimal Stopping
Key Words: mobile robots  multi-robot systems  optimisation  path planning  probability  decentralised mission monitoring  spatiotemporal optimal stopping  multirobot variant  mission monitoring problem  multiple tracker robots  single target robot  multirobot systems  task performance  marine robotics missions  single-robot paths  probabilistic representation  decentralised scheme  useful analytical properties  planned trajectories  probabilistic motion  observation models  mission monitoring systems  Monitoring  Trajectory  Target tracking  Robot kinematics  Probabilistic logic  Predictive models 
Abstract: We consider a multi-robot variant of the mission monitoring problem. This problem arises in tasks where a robot observes the progress of another robot that is stochastically following a known trajectory, among other applications. We formulate and solve a variant where multiple tracker robots must monitor a single target robot, which is important because it enables the use of multi-robot systems to improve task performance in practice, such as in marine robotics missions. Our algorithm coordinates the behaviour of the trackers by computing optimal single-robot paths given a probabilistic representation of the other robots' paths. We employ a decentralised scheme that optimises over probability distributions of plans and has useful analytical properties. The planned trajectories collectively maximise the probability of observing the target throughout the mission with respect to probabilistic motion and observation models. We report simulation results for up to 8 robots that support our analysis and indicate that our algorithm is a feasible solution for improving the performance of mission monitoring systems.


Title: Determining Effective Swarm Sizes for Multi-Job Type Missions
Key Words: multi-agent systems  multi-robot systems  optimisation  particle swarm optimisation  queueing theory  sensitivity analysis  vehicle routing  sensitivity analysis  M/M/k/k queuing model  swarm search and service mission  SSS mission  swarm sizes  DVR  dynamic vehicle routing  multijob type missions  multiagent framework  balancing vehicle allocation  human operators  Robot sensing systems  Routing  Time factors  Planning  Task analysis 
Abstract: Swarm search and service (SSS) missions require large swarms to simultaneously search an area while servicing jobs as they are encountered. Jobs must be immediately serviced and can be one of several different job types - each requiring a different service time and number of vehicles to complete its service successfully. After jobs are serviced, vehicles are returned to the swarm and become available for reallocation. As part of SSS mission planning, human operators must determine the number of vehicles needed to achieve this balance. The complexities associated with balancing vehicle allocation to multiple as yet unknown tasks with returning vehicles makes this extremely difficult for humans. Previous work assumes that all system jobs are known ahead of time or that vehicles move independently of each other in a multi-agent framework. We present a dynamic vehicle routing (DVR) framework whose policies optimally allocate vehicles as jobs arrive. By incorporating time constraints into the DVR framework, an M/M/k/k queuing model can be used to evaluate overall steady state system performance for a given swarm size. Using these estimates, operators can rapidly compare system performance across different configurations, leading to more effective choices for swarm size. A sensitivity analysis is performed and its results are compared with the model, illustrating the appropriateness of our method to problems of plausible scale and complexity.


Title: Distributed Sensing Subject to Temporal Logic Constraints
Key Words: entropy  formal specification  greedy algorithms  multi-agent systems  optimisation  temporal logic  distributed sensing subject  temporal logic constraints  temporal logic specifications  local objective functions  motion plans  objective function  information entropy  unassigned agents  satisfaction guarantees  optimality loss  local greedy minimization  TL constraints  specification complexity  TL specification  product automaton based approach  Robot sensing systems  Linear programming  Task analysis  Planning  Automata 
Abstract: This paper considers the combination of temporal logic (TL) specifications and local objective functions to create online, multiagent, motion plans. These plans are guaranteed to satisfy a persistent mission TL specification and locally optimize an objective function (e.g. in this paper, a cost based on information entropy). The presented approach decouples the two tasks by assigning sub-teams of agents to fulfill the TL specification, while unassigned agents optimize the objective function locally. This paper also presents a novel decoupling of the classic product automaton based approach while maintaining satisfaction guarantees. We also qualitatively show that optimality loss in the local greedy minimization due to the TL constraints can be approximated based on specification complexity. This approach is evaluated with a set of simulations and an experiment of 6 robots with real sensors.


Title: Force/Velocity Manipulability Analysis for 3D Continuum Robots
Key Words: dexterous manipulators  mobile robots  path planning  continuum robots  continuum manipulators  effective manipulation  rigid robots  manipulability indices  unified force-velocity manipulability  concentric-tube robot  manipulability measurement  force-velocity manipulability analysis  Robot kinematics  Indexes  Force  Manipulators  Jacobian matrices  Ellipsoids 
Abstract: The enhanced dexterity and manipulability offered by continuum manipulators makes them the robots of choice for complex procedures inside the human body. However, without tailored analytical tools to evaluate their manipulability, many capabilities of continuum robots such as safe and effective manipulation will remain largely inaccessible. This paper presents a quantifiable measure for analysing force/velocity manipulability of continuum robots. We expand classical measures of manipulability for rigid robots to introduce three types of manipulability indices to continuum robots, namely, velocity, compliance, and unified force-velocity manipulability. We provide a specific case study using the proposed method to analyse the force/velocity manipulability for a concentric-tube robot. We investigate the application of the manipulability measures to compare performance of continuum robots in terms of compliance and force-velocity manipulability. The proposed manipulability measures enable future research on design and optimal path planning for continuum robots.


Title: Development and validation of MRI compatible pediatric surgical robot with modular tooling for bone biopsy
Key Words: biomedical MRI  bone  medical robotics  paediatrics  phantoms  surgery  tumours  PSR-BBT  cortical bone phantoms  cancellous bone phantoms  MRI testing  T1-FFE  T2-FFE  MR-guided robotic surgery  modular Tooling  magnetic resonance imaging  MR-compatible tools  surgical accuracy  Pediatric Surgery Robot platform  modular tool interface  Bone Biopsy Tooling  modified titanium bone biopsy needle  joint Cartesian level control  MRI compatible pediatric surgical robot  lesion  tumor  5-DOF robot  Philips Achieva 3.0T MRI bore  surgical preplanning  control interface  Cartesian level control  axial force  signal-to-noise ratio variation  geometric distortion  magnetic flux density 3 T  Biopsy  Bones  Magnetic resonance imaging  Robots  Surgery  Signal to noise ratio  Tools 
Abstract: In clinical practice, magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) is used to locate a lesion/tumor for bone biopsy in children. However, there is a lack of MR-compatible tools that can be used simultaneously during imaging and biopsy while maintaining surgical accuracy and safety. The Pediatric Surgery Robot (PSR) platform is a 5-DOF robot with a modular tool interface. For the case of bone biopsy, a Bone Biopsy Tooling (BBT) is attached. It is designed to fit within a Philips Achieva 3.0T MRI bore and carry a modified titanium bone biopsy needle. A surgical pre-planning and control interface has been developed for joint and Cartesian level control. The PSR-BBT has demonstrated 1.65 +/- 1.77 mm accuracy in Cartesian control in free space. The PSR-BBT can generate 12.46 +/- 0.32 N of axial force while drilling at a speed of 30 rpm, which is sufficient for cortical and cancellous bone phantoms. Under MRI testing (T1-FFE, T1-SE, T2-FFE and T2-TSE scans), the system demonstrated less than 33% signal-to-noise ratio variation while drilling and a 0.46% geometric distortion while powered on without significantly impacting MRI guidance in situ. These results show that the PSR-BBT can allow the user to simultaneously image and perform the biopsy and presents the PSR as a viable platform for MR-guided robotic surgery.


Title: Safe Motion Planning for Steerable Needles Using Cost Maps Automatically Extracted from Pulmonary Images
Key Words: blood vessels  cancer  computerised tomography  feature extraction  lung  medical image processing  needles  lung nodule biopsy  steerable needles  bronchoscope  bronchial tubes  blood vessels  safe motion planning  motion planning approach  lung pleura  pulmonary CT images  cost map  lung periphery  lung nodules  needle biopsy  lung cancer  Needles  Lung  Biomedical imaging  Planning  Biopsy  Computed tomography  Blood vessels 
Abstract: Lung cancer is the deadliest form of cancer, and early diagnosis is critical to favorable survival rates. Definitive diagnosis of lung cancer typically requires needle biopsy. Common lung nodule biopsy approaches either carry significant risk or are incapable of accessing large regions of the lung, such as in the periphery. Deploying a steerable needle from a bronchoscope and steering through the lung allows for safe biopsy while improving the accessibility of lung nodules in the lung periphery. In this work, we present a method for extracting a cost map automatically from pulmonary CT images, and utilizing the cost map to efficiently plan safe motions for a steerable needle through the lung. The cost map encodes obstacles that should be avoided, such as the lung pleura, bronchial tubes, and large blood vessels, and additionally formulates a cost for the rest of the lung which corresponds to an approximate likelihood that a blood vessel exists at each location in the anatomy. We then present a motion planning approach that utilizes the cost map to generate paths that minimize accumulated cost while safely reaching a goal location in the lung.


Title: Development and Evaluation of an Intuitive Flexible Interface for Teleoperating Soft Growing Robots
Key Words: bending  mobile robots  path planning  service robots  telerobotics  user interfaces  intuitive flexible interface  teleoperating soft growing robots  robotic systems design  tip-extending  navigation  disaster scenarios  intuitive human control  intuitively map human bending  shape information  command mappings  developed interface  commercially available interfaces  virtual task scenarios  shape mapping  vine robot rolls  Shape  Robot sensing systems  Robot kinematics  Three-dimensional displays  Kinematics  Current measurement 
Abstract: Mobility by growth is a new paradigm in robotic systems design and their applications in the real world. Soft, tip-extending, or “growing”, robots have potential applications including inspection and navigation in disaster scenarios. However, due to their growing capability, such robots create unique challenges for intuitive human control. In this paper, a new flexible interface is proposed to intuitively map human bending commands into movements of the growing robot while providing shape information of the robot in order to improve situational awareness. Several command mappings are proposed, and a subjective study was conducted to assess the intuitiveness of the developed interface and mappings compared with other commercially available interfaces. The interfaces were evaluated using four metrics in two virtual task scenarios. The proposed interface with shape mapping performed better than the other interfaces, especially when the vine robot rolls over unintentionally during complex tasks.


Title: A Singularity-Robust LQR Controller for Parallel Robots
Key Words: control system synthesis  linear quadratic control  mobile robots  nonlinear control systems  optimal control  robust control  torque control  singularity-robust LQR controller  five-bar parallel robot  optimal control law  expensive inverse dynamics computations  reliable controller  singularity-crossing trajectories  motion range  singularity-free regions  forward singularities  parallel robots  Trajectory  Parallel robots  Robot kinematics  Regulators  Task analysis 
Abstract: Parallel robots exhibit the so-called forward singularities, which complicate substantially the planning and control of their motions. Often, such complications are circumvented by restricting the motions to singularity-free regions of the workspace. However, this comes at the expense of reducing the motion range of the robot substantially. It is for this reason that, recently, efforts are underway to control singularity-crossing trajectories. This paper proposes a reliable controller to stabilize such kind of trajectories. The controller is based on the classical theory of linear quadratic regulators, which we adapt appropriately to the case of parallel robots. As opposed to traditional computed-torque methods, the obtained controller does not rely on expensive inverse dynamics computations. Instead, it uses an optimal control law that is easy to evaluate, and does not generate instabilities at forward singularities. The performance of the controller is exemplified on a five-bar parallel robot accomplishing two tasks that require the traversal of singularities.


Title: Configuration Space Metrics
Key Words: manipulator kinematics  path planning  configuration space metrics  robot manipulators  task constraint  Euclidean distance metric  robot behavior  3DOF arm  Jaco 7DOF arm  Task analysis  Euclidean distance  Manifolds  End effectors  Elbow 
Abstract: When robot manipulators decide how to reach for an object, hand it over, or obey some task constraint, they implicitly assume a Euclidean distance metric in their configuration space. Their notion of what makes a configuration closer or further is dictated by this assumption. But different distance metrics will lead to different solutions. What is efficient under a Euclidean metric might not necessarily look the most efficient or natural to a person observing the robot. In this paper, we analyze the effect of the metric on robot behavior, examining both Euclidean, as well as non-Euclidean metrics - metrics that make certain joints cheaper, or that correlate different joints. Our user data suggests that tasks on a 3DOF arm and the Jaco 7DOF arm can typically be grouped into ones where a Euclidean metric works well, and tasks where that is no longer the case: there, surprisingly, penalizing elbow motion (and sometimes correlating the shoulder and wrist) leads to solutions that are more aligned with what users prefer.


Title: Probabilistic Kinematic State Estimation for Motion Planning of Planetary Rovers
Key Words: aerospace robotics  Mars  mobile robots  path planning  planetary rovers  robot kinematics  state estimation  statistical distributions  light-weight analytic solution  rocky terrain  typical numeric approaches  onboard computation  single collision  unstructured terrain  robot motion planning  kinematics-based collision detection  planetary rovers  probabilistic kinematic state estimation  deterministic state bounds  distribution models  probabilistic safety guarantees  worst-case evaluation  deterministic bounds  probability distributions  frequent false positive detection  conservative safety check approach  worst-case values  constraint violation  terrain height  articulated suspension systems  Mars 2020 rover mission  Approximate Clearance Evaluation  Wheels  Kinematics  Planning  Space vehicles  Uncertainty  Numerical models  Probabilistic logic 
Abstract: Kinematics-based collision detection is important for robot motion planning in unstructured terrain. Especially, planetary rovers require such capability as a single collision may lead to the termination of a mission. For onboard computation, typical numeric approaches are unsuitable as they are computationally expensive and unstable on rocky terrain; instead, a light-weight analytic solution (ACE: Approximate Clearance Evaluation) is planning to be used for the Mars 2020 rover mission. ACE computes the state bounds of articulated suspension systems from terrain height bounds, and assess the safety by checking the constraint violation of states with the worst-case values. ACE's conservative safety check approach can sometimes lead to over-pessimism: feasible states are often reported as infeasible, thus resulting in frequent false positive detection. In this paper, we introduce a computationally efficient probabilistic variant of ACE (called p-ACE) which estimates the probability distributions of states in real time. The advantage of having probability distributions over states, instead of deterministic bounds, is to provide more flexible and less pessimistic worst-case evaluation with probabilistic safety guarantees. Empirically derived distribution models are used to compute the total probability of constraint satisfaction, which is then used for path assessment. Through experiments with a high-fidelity simulator, we empirically show that p-ACE relaxes the deterministic state bounds without losing safety guarantees.


Title: PAMPC: Perception-Aware Model Predictive Control for Quadrotors
Key Words: autonomous aerial vehicles  helicopters  mobile robots  nonlinear programming  path planning  predictive control  robot vision  PAMPC  lighting conditions  visual-inertial odometry pipeline  low-power ARM computer  nonlinear optimization problem  action objective  numerical optimization  perception-aware model predictive control framework  model-based optimization framework  perception objective  quadrotor  motion planning  Cameras  Trajectory  Optimization  Robot vision systems  Predictive control  Planning 
Abstract: We present the first perception-aware model predictive control framework for quadrotors that unifies control and planning with respect to action and perception objectives. Our framework leverages numerical optimization to compute trajectories that satisfy the system dynamics and require control inputs within the limits of the platform. Simultaneously, it optimizes perception objectives for robust and reliable sensing by maximizing the visibility of a point of interest and minimizing its velocity in the image plane. Considering both perception and action objectives for motion planning and control is challenging due to the possible conflicts arising from their respective requirements. For example, for a quadrotor to track a reference trajectory, it needs to rotate to align its thrust with the direction of the desired acceleration. However, the perception objective might require to minimize such rotation to maximize the visibility of a point of interest. A model-based optimization framework, able to consider both perception and action objectives and couple them through the system dynamics, is therefore necessary. Our perception-aware model predictive control framework works in a receding-horizon fashion by iteratively solving a non-linear optimization problem. It is capable of running in real-time, fully onboard our lightweight, small-scale quadrotor using a low-power ARM computer, together with a visual-inertial odometry pipeline. We validate our approach in experiments demonstrating (I) the conflict between perception and action objectives, and (II) improved behavior in extremely challenging lighting conditions.


Title: History-Aware Autonomous Exploration in Confined Environments Using MAVs
Key Words: attitude control  autonomous aerial vehicles  mobile robots  path planning  sampling-based exploration algorithms  3D exploration planner  field-of-view depth sensor  configuration space  high sampling efficiency  computational constrained real world MAV  history-aware autonomous exploration  confined environments  inspection tasks  high-dimensional path planning problem  microaerial vehicle  search and rescue missions  next-best views  robot orientation  Planning  Robot sensing systems  Three-dimensional displays  Trajectory  History  Optimization 
Abstract: Many scenarios require a robot to be able to explore its 3D environment online without human supervision. This is especially relevant for inspection tasks and search and rescue missions. To solve this high-dimensional path planning problem, sampling-based exploration algorithms have proven successful. However, these do not necessarily scale well to larger environments or spaces with narrow openings. This paper presents a 3D exploration planner based on the principles of Next-Best Views (NBVs). In this approach, a Micro-Aerial Vehicle (MAV)equipped with a limited field-of-view depth sensor randomly samples its configuration space to find promising future viewpoints. In order to obtain high sampling efficiency, our planner maintains and uses a history of visited places, and locally optimizes the robot's orientation with respect to unobserved space. We evaluate our method in several simulated scenarios, and compare it against a state-of-the-art exploration algorithm. The experiments show substantial improvements in exploration time (2 × faster), computation time, and path length, and advantages in handling difficult situations such as escaping dead-ends (up to 20 × faster). Finally, we validate the on-line capability of our algorithm on a computational constrained real world MAV.


Title: Angle-Encoded Swarm Optimization for UAV Formation Path Planning
Key Words: autonomous aerial vehicles  collision avoidance  mobile robots  multi-robot systems  particle swarm optimisation  angle-encoded particle swarm optimization  3DR solo drones  mission planner  Internet-of- Things  UAV formation path planning  triangular formation maintenance  swarm convergence  multiple-objective optimisation algorithm  unmanned aerial vehicles  feasible path planning technique  Trajectory  Collision avoidance  Unmanned aerial vehicles  Task analysis  Cost function  Shape  Quadcopter  θ-PSO  path planning  loT  triangular formation  collision avoidance 
Abstract: This paper presents a novel and feasible path planning technique for a group of unmanned aerial vehicles (DAVs) conducting surface inspection of infrastructure. The ultimate goal is to minimise the travel distance of DAVs while simultaneously avoid obstacles, and maintain altitude constraints as well as the shape of the UAV formation. A multiple-objective optimisation algorithm, called the Angle-encoded Particle Swarm Optimization (θ- PSO) algorithm, is proposed to accelerate the swarm convergence with angular velocity and position being used for the location of particles. The whole formation is modelled as a virtual rigid body and controlled to maintain a desired geometric shape among the paths created while the centroid of the group follows a pre-determined trajectory. Based on the testbed of 3DR Solo drones equipped with a proprietary Mission Planner, and the Internet-of- Things (loT) for multi-directional transmission and reception of data between the DAV s, extensive experiments have been conducted for triangular formation maintenance along a monorail bridge. The results obtained confirm the feasibility and effectiveness of the proposed approach.


Title: An Integrated Localization-Navigation Scheme for Distance-Based Docking of UAVs
Key Words: adaptive estimation  autonomous aerial vehicles  convergence  image sequences  invariance  mobile robots  navigation  path planning  position control  single landmark  unmanned aerial vehicles  GPS-less environment  optical flow sensors  ultra-wideband ranging sensors  discrete-time LaSalle invariance principle  UAV  distance-based docking problem  integrated localization-navigation scheme  asymptotic docking  delicate control scheme  relative position  nonlinear adaptive estimation scheme  bounded velocity  discrete-time integrators  navigation tasks  relative localization  integrated estimation-control scheme  arbitrarily unknown position  Navigation  Convergence  Distance measurement  Adaptive estimation  Estimation  Task analysis  Optical sensors 
Abstract: In this paper we study the distance-based docking problem of unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs) by using a single landmark placed at an arbitrarily unknown position. To solve the problem, we propose an integrated estimation-control scheme to simultaneously achieve the relative localization and navigation tasks for discrete-time integrators under bounded velocity: a nonlinear adaptive estimation scheme to estimate the relative position to the landmark, and a delicate control scheme to ensure both the convergence of the estimation and the asymptotic docking at the given landmark. A rigorous proof of convergence is provided by invoking the discrete-time LaSalle's invariance principle, and we also validate our theoretical findings on quadcopters equipped with ultra-wideband ranging sensors and optical flow sensors in a GPS-less environment.


Title: Sampling of Pareto-Optimal Trajectories Using Progressive Objective Evaluation in Multi-Objective Motion Planning
Key Words: Bayes methods  Markov processes  Monte Carlo methods  Pareto optimisation  path planning  implicit uniform distribution  Pareto-frontier  progressive objective evaluation  objective functions  Pareto-optimal trajectories  multiobjective motion planning  multiobjective motion-planning problems  sampling trajectories  Pareto-optimal set  Markov chain Monte Carlo method  Trajectory  Markov processes  Planning  Monte Carlo methods  Sociology  Optimization 
Abstract: In this paper, we introduce a Markov chain Monte Carlo (MCMC)method to solve multi-objective motion-planning problems. We formulate the problem of finding Pareto-optimal trajectories as a problem of sampling trajectories from a Pareto-optimal set. We define an implicit uniform distribution over the Pareto-frontier using a dominance function and then sample in the space of trajectories. The nature of MCMC guarantees the convergence to the Pareto-frontier, while the uniform distribution ensures the diversity of the trajectories. We also propose progressive objective evaluation to increase efficiency in problems with expensive-to-evaluate objective functions. This enables determination of dominance relationship between trajectories before they are entirely evaluated. We finally analyze the effectiveness of the framework and its applications in robotics.


Title: Inferring Semantic State Transitions During Telerobotic Manipulation
Key Words: control engineering computing  human-robot interaction  inference mechanisms  manipulators  mobile robots  service robots  telerobotics  telerobotic manipulation  autonomous operations  service robots  robot teleoperation  automated planning  higher abstraction level  semantic reasoning  abstract state  operational modes  simulation based geometric tracking  semantic state transitions inference  state inference entities  Semantics  Planning  Computational modeling  Physics  Robot sensing systems  Task analysis 
Abstract: Human teleoperation of robots and autonomous operations go hand in hand in today's service robots. While robot teleoperation is typically performed on low to medium levels of abstraction, automated planning has to take place on a higher abstraction level, i.e. by means of semantic reasoning. Accordingly, an abstract state of the world has to be maintained in order to enable an operator to switch seamlessly between both operational modes. We propose a novel approach that combines simulation based geometric tracking and semantic state inference by means of so called State Inference Entities to overcome this issue. We also demonstrate how Evolutionary Strategies can be employed to refine simulation parameters. All experiments are demonstrated in real-world experiments conducted with the humanoid robot Rollin' Justin.


Title: The Art of Manipulation: Learning to Manipulate Blindly
Key Words: human-robot interaction  learning (artificial intelligence)  manipulators  path planning  peg-in-hole problem  manipulation learning  human performance  robot manipulation  high-level manipulation planning  autonomous skill learning  inter-class generalization  insertion skills  human-level performance  manipulation strategies  basic motor control  Task analysis  Motor drives  Planning  Intelligent robots  Art  Bridges 
Abstract: Performing skillfull manipulation is a very challenging task for robots. So far, even experts could barely program them to e.g. perform the well known peg-in-hole problem in the real world. Autonomously acquiring such skills, let alone generalizing them to new tasks, is still a major challenge. Typically, manipulation learning is approached with the help of large computation power, very long learning times, or possibly both. However, the performance achieved up to now is still far from human performance. We show the results of our new paradigm to robot manipulation. It bridges and unifies basic motor control, simple and complex manipulation strategies and high-level manipulation planning. The robots show autonomous skill learning, intra-class and inter-class generalization of insertion skills at human-level performance.


Title: Human-Robot-Cooperation Real Time Robot Path Planning for Dynamic HRC-Applications
Key Words: collision avoidance  human-robot interaction  mobile robots  optimisation  path planning  collision optimization  real time robot path planning  dynamic obstacles  motion planning framework  pre-programmed robot paths  dynamic HRC-applications  human-robot-cooperation  unstructured environment  robot velocity  movement paths  free robot trajectories  framework plans  human-robot shared workspace  human obstacles  Robots  Collision avoidance  Real-time systems  Machine tools  Dynamics  Safety  Trajectory 
Abstract: Human-Robot shared workspace is a dynamic and unstructured environment. In such environment, pre-programmed robot paths might cause collisions or production disruptions. In order to solve this problem, motion planning framework has been proposed that adapts the robot's movement (path and speed)according to the human movement or any other dynamic obstacles in real time. Firstly, it defines the safety distance between robot and human or other obstacles. During run-time the 3D-Smart-Sensors capture the current position of human and other dynamic/static obstacles in human-robot shared workspace. The proposed framework plans and optimizes collision free robot trajectories with consideration for safety distance, path length and executing time. Once a new optimal trajectory is found, the framework controls the robot to adjust its movement paths. Moreover, the proposed framework can adjust the robot velocity based on the 3D-Zone Model of human-robot shared workspace. Therefore, the robot can reach its goal quickly and safely in a dynamic and unstructured environment.


Title: Reasoning Systems for Semantic Navigation in Mobile Robots
Key Words: control engineering computing  inference mechanisms  mobile robots  navigation  ontologies (artificial intelligence)  path planning  semantic navigation paradigm  mobile robot  environmental semantic concepts  ontological model  KnowRob  relational database  reasoning system  semantic representation  semantic navigation system  Navigation  Ontologies  Semantics  Cognition  Mobile robots  Relational databases 
Abstract: Semantic navigation is the navigation paradigm in which environmental semantic concepts and their relationships are taken into account to plan the route of a mobile robot. This paradigm facilitates the interaction with humans and the understanding of human environments in terms of navigation goals and tasks. At the high level, a semantic navigation system requires two main components: a semantic representation of the environment, and a reasoning system. This paper is focused on develop a model of the environment using semantic concepts. This paper presents two solutions for the semantic navigation paradigm. Both systems implement an ontological model. Whilst the first one uses a relational database, the second one is based on KnowRob. Both systems have been integrated in a semantic navigator. We compare both systems at the qualitative and quantitative levels, and present an implementation on a mobile robot as a proof of concept.


Title: Approaches for Action Sequence Representation in Robotics: A Review
Key Words: reviews  robots  robotics  action sequences representation  robots  action sequence representation  complex robotic tasks  robot task  Task analysis  Planning  Calculus  Strips  Service robots  Proposals 
Abstract: Robust representation of actions and its sequences for complex robotic tasks would transform robot's understanding to execute robotic tasks efficiently. The challenge is to understand action sequences for highly unstructured environments and to represent and construct action and action sequences. In this manuscript, we present a review of literature dealing with representation of action and action sequences for robot task planning and execution. The methodological review was conducted using Google Scholar and IEEE Xplore, searching the specific keywords. This manuscript gives an overview of current approaches for representing action sequences in robotics. We propose a classification of different methodologies used for action sequences representation and describe the most important aspects of the reviewed publications. This review allows the reader to understand several options that do exist in the research community, to represent and deploy such action representations in real robots.


Title: Any-Time Trajectory Planning for Safe Emergency Landing
Key Words: aerospace components  aerospace engineering  aircraft control  aircraft landing guidance  path planning  trajectory control  landing site selection  safest emergency landing trajectory  multiple landing sites  any-time property  time trajectory planning  safe emergency landing  critical situation  human pilots  landing trajectories  aircraft  Trajectory  Aircraft  Planning  Turning  Drag  Atmospheric modeling  Force 
Abstract: Loss of thrust is a critical situation for human pilots of fixed-wing aircraft which force them to select a landing site in the nearby range and perform an emergency landing. The time for the landing site selection is limited by the actual altitude of the aircraft, and it may be fatal if the correct decision is not chosen fast enough. Therefore, we propose a novel RRT* -based planning algorithm for finding the safest emergency landing trajectory towards a given set of possible landing sites. Multiple landing sites are evaluated simultaneously during the flight even before any mechanical issue occurs, and the roadmap of possible landing trajectories is updated permanently. Thus, the proposed algorithm has the any-time property and provides the best emergency landing trajectory almost instantly.


Title: PiDrone: An Autonomous Educational Drone Using Raspberry Pi and Python
Key Words: aerospace robotics  cameras  computer aided instruction  control engineering education  educational courses  mobile robots  Python  remotely operated vehicles  robot programming  robot vision  state estimation  three-term control  high-level planning  PiDrone  autonomous educational drone  Python  compelling robotics course  low-cost aerial educational platform  associated college-level introductory robotics course  autonomous aircraft  downward facing RGB camera  distance sensor  onboard Raspberry Pi  accessible platform  inexpensive platform  SSH capable computer  base station  programming platform  robotics operating system framework  ROS framework  PID control  state estimation  Drones  Educational robots  Robot sensing systems  Python  Service robots  Hardware 
Abstract: A compelling robotics course begins with a compelling robot. We introduce a new low-cost aerial educational platform, the PiDrone, along with an associated college-level introductory robotics course. In a series of projects, students incrementally build, program, and test their own drones to create an autonomous aircraft capable of using a downward facing RGB camera and infrared distance sensor to visually localize and maintain position. The PiDrone runs Python and the Robotics Operating System (ROS) framework on an onboard Raspberry Pi, providing an accessible and inexpensive platform for introducing students to robotics. Students can use any web and SSH capable computer as a base station and programming platform. The projects and supplementary homeworks introduce PID control, state estimation, and high-level planning, giving students the opportunity to exercise their new skills in an exciting long-term project.


Title: Active Structure-from-Motion for 3d Straight Lines
Key Words: mobile robots  observability  robot vision  visual servoing  Active Structure-from-Motion  planning  Image-Based Visual Servoing  control scheme  straight lines  control law  control effort  3D straight lines  convergence rate  3D parameter estimation  Three-dimensional displays  Cameras  Convergence  Eigenvalues and eigenfunctions  Robots  Observers 
Abstract: A reliable estimation of 3D parameters is a must for several applications like planning and control, in which is included Image-Based Visual Servoing. This control scheme depends directly on 3D parameters, e.g. depth of points, and/or depth and direction of 3D straight lines. Recently, a framework for Active Structure-from-Motion was proposed, addressing the former feature type. However, straight lines were not addressed. These are 1D objects, which allow for more robust detection, and tracking. In this work, the problem of Active Structure-from-Motion for 3D straight lines is addressed. An explicit representation of these features is presented, and a change of variables is proposed. The latter allows the dynamics of the line to respect the conditions for observability of the framework. A control law is used with the purpose of keeping the control effort reasonable, while achieving a desired convergence rate. The approach is validated first in simulation for a single line, and second using a real robot setup. The latter set of experiments are conducted first for a single line, and then for three lines.


Title: An Efficient and Time-Optimal Trajectory Generation Approach for Waypoints Under Kinematic Constraints and Error Bounds
Key Words: manipulator kinematics  nonlinear programming  path planning  time optimal control  trajectory control  motion planners  optimization scale  trajectory results  seven-segment acceleration profile  nonlinear constraint optimization problem  robot manipulator  error bounds  kinematic constraints  time-optimal trajectory generation approach  Trajectory  Splines (mathematics)  Optimization  Manipulators  Acceleration  Kinematics 
Abstract: This paper presents an approach to generate the time-optimal trajectory for a robot manipulator under certain kinematic constraints such as joint position, velocity, acceleration, and jerk limits. This problem of generating a trajectory that takes the minimum time to pass through specified waypoints is formulated as a nonlinear constraint optimization problem. Unlike prior approaches that model the motion of consecutive waypoints as a Cubic Spline, we model this motion with a seven-segment acceleration profile, as this trajectory results in a shorter overall motion time while staying within the bounds of the robot manipulator's constraints. The optimization bottleneck lies in the complexity that increases exponentially with the number of waypoints. To make the optimization scale well with the number of waypoints, we propose an approach that has linear complexity. This approach first divides all waypoints to consecutive batches, each with an overlap of two waypoints. The overlapping waypoints then act as a bridge to concatenate the optimization results of two consecutive batches. The whole trajectory is effectively optimized by successively optimizing every batch. We conduct experiments on practical scenarios and trajectories generated by motion planners to evaluate the effectiveness of our proposed approach over existing state-of-the-art approaches.


Title: Leveraging Precomputation with Problem Encoding for Warm-Starting Trajectory Optimization in Complex Environments
Key Words: collision avoidance  convergence  humanoid robots  mobile robots  Newton method  trajectory control  problem encoding  warm-starting trajectory optimization  motion planner  local minima  motion planning  near-optimal warm-start initializations  global convergence  quasiNewton solvers  probabilistic inference solvers  NASA Valkyrie robot  Task analysis  Collision avoidance  Planning  Robots  Trajectory optimization 
Abstract: Motion planning through optimization is largely based on locally improving the cost of a trajectory until an optimal solution is found. Choosing the initial trajectory has therefore a significant effect on the performance of the motion planner, especially when the cost landscape contains local minima. While multiple heuristics and approximations may be used to efficiently compute an initialization online, they are based on generic assumptions that do not always match the task at hand. In this paper, we exploit the fact that repeated tasks are similar according to some metric. We store solutions of the problem as a library of initial seed trajectories offline and employ a problem encoding to retrieve near-optimal warm-start initializations on-the-fly. We compare how different initialization strategies affect the global convergence and runtime of quasi-Newton and probabilistic inference solvers. Our analysis on the 38-DoF NASA Valkyrie robot shows that efficient and optimal planning in high-dimensional state spaces is possible despite the presence of globally non-smooth and discontinuous constraints, such as the ones imposed by collisions.


Title: A Self-Tuning Impedance Controller for Autonomous Robotic Manipulation
Key Words: control system synthesis  feedback  manipulators  mobile robots  path planning  robot programming  robot vision  appropriate restoring forces  unstructured environments  complex interactions  autonomous robotic manipulation  self-tuning impedance controller  debris removal task  selective Cartesian axes  impedance parameters  autonomous tuning  robot state machine  interaction values  interaction expectancy value  novel self-regulating impedance controller  task-dependent regulation  task conditions  robot programmers  damping  stiffness  quasistatic performance  impedance control techniques  imposed displacements  Impedance  Task analysis  Robot sensing systems  Three-dimensional displays  Grasping  Damping 
Abstract: Complex interactions with unstructured environments require the application of appropriate restoring forces in response to the imposed displacements. Impedance control techniques provide effective solutions to achieve this, however, their quasi-static performance is highly dependent on the choice of parameters, i.e. stiffness and damping. In most cases, such parameters are previously selected by robot programmers to achieve a desired response, which limits the adaptation capability of robots to varying task conditions. To improve the generality of interaction planning through task-dependent regulation of the parameters, this paper introduces a novel self-regulating impedance controller. The regulation of the parameters is achieved based on the robot's local sensory data, and on an interaction expectancy value. This value combines the interaction values from the robot state machine and visual feedback, to authorize the autonomous tuning of the impedance parameters in selective Cartesian axes. The effectiveness of the proposed method is validated experimentally in a debris removal task.


Title: Real-Time Quad-Rotor Path Planning for Mobile Obstacle Avoidance Using Convex Optimization
Key Words: attitude control  collision avoidance  convex programming  helicopters  propellers  mobile obstacle avoidance  on-board convex-optimization-based path planning  multirotors  fixed-pitch propellers  fixed-pitch actuators  uni-directional thrust  commanded total thrust  sufficient independent attitude control authority  indoor flight demonstration  second-order cone programming problems  real-time quad-rotor path planning  real-time 3-dimensional path planning  Trajectory  Real-time systems  Software  Acceleration  Vehicle dynamics  Attitude control 
Abstract: In this paper, we employ convex optimization to perform real-time 3-dimensional path planning on-board a quad-rotor and demonstrate its real-time capabilities. Building on our previous work, we make the following modifications: (1)we assume the obstacles are mobile, and (2)we introduce a simple framework to continuously recompute and update the trajectory. The contribution of this paper is to demonstrate the feasibility of real-time on-board convex-optimization-based path planning. For multi-rotors with fixed-pitch propellers, this path planning problem has two sources of non-convexity. First, since fixed-pitch actuators produce uni-directional thrust, the commanded total thrust must be maintained above a non-zero minimum in order to retain sufficient independent attitude control authority. The second source of non-convexity is due to the keep-out zones that envelop each obstacle. To circumvent the non-convexities introduced by these control and state constraints, we employ lossless and successive con-vexification, respectively. Consequently, we cast the original problem as a sequence of Second-Order Cone Programming problems, which can be solved quickly and reliably on-board. We conclude by presenting indoor flight demonstration and timing results of a scenario with three mobile obstacles. In this scenario, our algorithm assumes that the obstacles move with constant acceleration, and is re-executed regularly to account for uncertainties in the motion of the obstacles. The results show that new trajectories can be computed at rates in excess of 10 Hz, quickly enough to adapt to the uncertainty introduced in our flight demonstration.


Title: Motion Generators Combined with Behavior Trees: A Novel Approach to Skill Modelling
Key Words: control engineering computing  industrial robots  motion control  robot programming  trees (mathematics)  programming complexity  industrial robots  complex motions  self-contained primitive blocks  semantic skill  concurrent motion primitives  modeling skills  motion generators  behavior trees  task level programming  Task analysis  Generators  Robot kinematics  Force  Planning  Grippers  industrial robots  skills  reactive system  behavior tress  motio generators  assembly 
Abstract: Task level programming based on skills has often been proposed as a mean to decrease programming complexity of industrial robots. Several models are based on encapsulating complex motions into self-contained primitive blocks. A semantic skill is then defined as a deterministic sequence of these primitives. A major limitation is that existing frameworks do not support the coordination of concurrent motion primitives with possible interference. This decreases their reusability and scalability in unstructured environments where a dynamic and reactive adaptation of motions is often required. This paper presents a novel framework that generates adaptive behaviors by modeling skills as concurrent motion primitives activated dynamically when conditions trigger. The approach exploits the additive property of motion generators to superpose multiple contributions. We demonstrate the applicability on a real assembly use-case and discuss the gained benefits.


Title: Passivity Based Iterative Learning of Admittance-Coupled Dynamic Movement Primitives for Interaction with Changing Environments
Key Words: adaptive control  feedback  iterative learning control  learning systems  manipulator dynamics  motion control  path planning  admittance-coupled dynamic movement primitives  compact task representations  sensor-based goal adaptations  adaptive motion capabilities  learning process  environmental changes  contact wrench feedback dynamics  iterative learning approach  system passivity analysis  Kuka LWR robot  nonrigid contact  passivity based iterative learning  reference power tracking  Robots  Impedance  Trajectory  Force feedback  Dynamics  Task analysis  Admittance 
Abstract: Encoding desired motions into dynamic movement primitives (DMPs) is a common way for generating compact task representations that are able to handle sensor-based goal adaptations. At the same time, a robot should not only express adaptive motion capabilities at planning level, but use also contact wrench feedback in the adaptation and learning process of the DMP. Despite first approaches exist in this direction, no fully integrated approach has been proposed so far. In this paper, we introduce a new class of admittance-coupled DMPs that addresses environmental changes by including contact wrench feedback dynamics into the DMP formalism. Moreover, a novel iterative learning approach is devised that is based on monitoring the overall system passivity analysis in terms of reference power tracking. Simulations and experimental results with the Kuka LWR robot maintaining a non-rigid contact with the environment (wiping a surface) are shown for supporting the validity of our approach.


Title: Robust Robot Learning from Demonstration and Skill Repair Using Conceptual Constraints
Key Words: learning (artificial intelligence)  robots  concept constrained learning from demonstration  robust robot learning  constrained learning  LfD process  conceptually-grounded constraints  robust skill learning  CC-LfD  conceptual constraints  skill repair  Trajectory  Maintenance engineering  Task analysis  Training  Service robots  Planning 
Abstract: Learning from demonstration (LfD) has enabled robots to rapidly gain new skills and capabilities by leveraging examples provided by novice human operators. While effective, this training mechanism presents the potential for sub-optimal demonstrations to negatively impact performance due to unintentional operator error. In this work we introduce Concept Constrained Learning from Demonstration (CC-LfD), a novel algorithm for robust skill learning and skill repair that incorporates annotations of conceptually-grounded constraints (in the form of planning predicates) during live demonstrations into the LfD process. Through our evaluation, we show that CC-LfD can be used to quickly repair skills with as little as a single annotated demonstration without the need to identify and remove low-quality demonstrations. We also provide evidence for potential applications to transfer learning, whereby constraints can be used to adapt demonstrations from a related task to achieve proficiency with few new demonstrations required.


Title: Evaluating Methods for End-User Creation of Robot Task Plans
Key Words: manipulators  multi-robot systems  path planning  end-user creation  perception-driven task plans  collaborative robots  generalizable robot task plans  behavior tree-based CoSTAR system  pick-and-place assembly tasks  SmartMove  Task analysis  Planning  User interfaces  Service robots  Grippers  Collaboration 
Abstract: How can we enable users to create effective, perception-driven task plans for collaborative robots? We conducted a 35-person user study with the Behavior Tree-based CoSTAR system to determine which strategies for end user creation of generalizable robot task plans are most usable and effctive. CoSTAR allows domain experts to author complex, perceptually grounded task plans for collaborative robots. As a part of CoSTAR's wide range of capabilities, it allows users to specify SmartMoves: abstract goals such as “pick up component A from the right side of the table.” Users were asked to perform pick-and-place assembly tasks with either SmartMoves or one of three simpler baseline versions of CoSTAR. Overall, participants found CoSTAR to be highly usable, with an average System Usability Scale score of 73.4 out of 100. SmartMove also helped users perform tasks faster and more effectively; all SmartMove users completed the first two tasks, while not all users completed the tasks using the other strategies. SmartMove users showed better performance for incorporating perception across all three tasks.


Title: A Gripper System for Robustly Picking Various Objects Placed Densely by Suction and Pinching
Key Words: force control  grippers  motion control  robust control  trajectory control  vacuum pumps  robust pinching  Amazon Robotics Challenge 2017  suction air  vacuum pump  pad characteristics  gripper system  trajectory planning  trajectory control  suction force  passive linear motion mechanism  Conferences  Intelligent robots 
Abstract: Suction is an effective method for picking various objects because it makes trajectory planning and control easy. However, suction has not been used due to misalignment and leakage of suction air when handling a variety of shapes. We therefore develop a hand to handle these characteristics. First, we model the vacuum pump and pad characteristics to allow evaluation of momentum and suction force in the case of leakage. Utilizing this, we select a configuration suitable for the items in the Amazon Robotics Challenge 2017. In addition, we design a mechanism for switching from suction to pinching for grasping items that cannot be sucked. Moreover, robust pinching is made possible by equipping the fingertips with a passive linear motion mechanism. In the Amazon Robotics Challenge 2017, it was shown possible to stably grasp items with irregularities and items with large moments. Furthermore, items that cannot be grasped by suction can also be grasped robustly by switching to the pinching mechanism.


Title: Automated Control of Multifunctional Magnetic Spores Using Fluorescence Imaging for Microrobotic Cargo Delivery
Key Words: cellular transport  collision avoidance  fluorescence  goods distribution  microrobots  mobile robots  nanoparticles  particle swarm optimisation  path planning  position control  quantum dots  tracking  trajectory control  Mag-Spore  fluorescence microscopy  fluorescence imaging  observer-based trajectory tracking controller  multifunctional magnetic Spores  microrobotic cargo delivery possesses  complex environmental conditions  obstructed optical feedback  automated control approach  microrobotic cargo carrier  multifunctional magnetic spore  Magnetic resonance imaging  Automation  Magnetic multilayers  Carbon  Stem cells  Optimization 
Abstract: Microrobotic cargo delivery possesses promising perspective for precision medicine, and has attracted much attention recently. However, its automation remains challenging, especially with complex environmental conditions, such as obstacles and obstructed optical feedback. In this paper, we propose an automated control approach for a new microrobotic cargo carrier, i. e. the multifunctional magnetic spore (Mag-Spore). By surface functionalization of the spore with Fe3O4 nanoparticles and carbon quantum dots, it can be remotely actuated and tracked by an electromagnetic coil system and the fluorescence microscopy, respectively. Our strategy utilizes fluorescence imaging for vision feedback, which enhances the recognition and tracking of Mag-Spores and cells. Then, information of the cells and Mag-Spores for planning and control is identified via image processing, and an optimal path planner with obstacle avoidance capability is designed based on the Particle Swarm Optimization (PSO)algorithm. To make the Mag-Spore follow the planed path accurately, an observer-based trajectory tracking controller is synthesized. Simulations and experiments are conducted to demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed control approach.


Title: A Novel Monocular-Based Navigation Approach for UAV Autonomous Transmission-Line Inspection
Key Words: autonomous aerial vehicles  control engineering computing  image registration  inspection  mobile robots  neural nets  object detection  path planning  poles and towers  power overhead lines  robot vision  UAV autonomous navigation approach  pan-tilt monocular-based navigation scheme  neural network  homography matrix  distance variation  point set registration model  tower detection  overhead transmission lines  UAV autonomous transmission-line inspection  Poles and towers  Inspection  Navigation  Power transmission lines  Kernel  Cameras  Safety 
Abstract: This paper proposes a unique and robust UAV autonomous navigation approach along one side of overhead transmission lines for inspection. To this end, we establish a perspective model and develop a novel Pan/Tilt monocular-based navigation scheme. Simultaneously, the following three key issues are addressed. First, to locate the effective landmark - transmission tower timely and reliably, we customize a neural network for tower detection and combine it with a fast and smooth tracking. Second, to provide UAV with a robust and precise heading, we detect the transmission lines and compute and optimize their vanishing point. Third, to keep a safe distance from transmission lines, we optimize a homography matrix to restore the parallel nature of transmission lines and perceive the distance variation by a point set registration model. Finally, by the designed UAV platform, we test the whole system in a real-world transmission-line inspection scenario under different weather condition and achieve an encouraging result. Our approach provides great flexibility for refined inspection and effectively improves inspection safety.


Title: Autonomous Grasping Robotic Aerial System for Perching (AGRASP)
Key Words: autonomous aerial vehicles  biomimetics  control system synthesis  helicopters  manipulators  mobile robots  path planning  robot vision  sensors  AGRASP  multirotor aerial vehicles  robotics perception  vision-based path planning  highly-constrained sensor  autonomous grasping robotic aerial system for perching  biomimetically-inspired manipulation  perch structures  innovative manipulator design  active grasp  passive grip  quadrotor autonomously detection  onboard sensing  onboard processing  Manipulators  Tendons  Robot sensing systems  Bars  Grasping  Three-dimensional displays 
Abstract: This paper presents an autonomous perching concept for multirotor aerial vehicles. The Autonomous Grasping Robotic Aerial System for Perching (AGRASP)represents a novel integration of robotics perception, vision-based path planning, and biomimetically-inspired manipulation on a small, lightweight aerial robot with highly-constrained sensor and processing capacity. Computationally lightweight perception algorithms pull candidate perch structures out of a complex environment with no a priori knowledge of the operational space. The innovative manipulator design combines both active grasp and passive grip enabling it to maintain hold on the perch even with all power off. We experimentally demonstrate, for the first time, a quadrotor autonomously detecting and landing on a perch relying solely on onboard sensing and processing.


Title: Deep Sequential Models for Sampling-Based Planning
Key Words: collision avoidance  computational geometry  learning (artificial intelligence)  mobile robots  multi-agent systems  path planning  sampling methods  deep sequential models  sequence model  sampling-based planner  efficient plans  planner state  neural-network-based models  fewer rejected samples  multiagent environments  graphical models  Hidden Markov models  Computational modeling  Planning  Adaptation models  Space exploration  Uncertainty  Sensors 
Abstract: We demonstrate how a sequence model and a sampling-based planner can influence each other to produce efficient plans and how such a model can automatically learn to take advantage of observations of the environment. Sampling-based planners such as RRT generally know nothing of their environments even if they have traversed similar spaces many times. A sequence model, such as an HMM or LSTM, guides the search for good paths. The resulting model, called DeRRT*, observes the state of the planner and the local environment to bias the next move and next planner state. The neural-network-based models avoid manual feature engineering by co-training a convolutional network which processes map features and observations from sensors. We incorporate this sequence model in a manner that combines its likelihood with the existing bias for searching large unexplored Voronoi regions. This leads to more efficient trajectories with fewer rejected samples even in difficult domains such as when escaping bug traps. This model can also be used for dimensionality reduction in multi-agent environments with dynamic obstacles. Instead of planning in a high-dimensional space that includes the configurations of the other agents, we plan in a low-dimensional subspace relying on the sequence model to bias samples using the observed behavior of the other agents. The techniques presented here are general, include both graphical models and deep learning approaches, and can be adapted to a range of planners.


Title: A Topology-Based Path Similarity Metric and its Application to Sampling-Based Motion Planning
Key Words: mobile robots  path planning  sampling methods  topology  homotopic similarity  homotopy equivalence  naive application  local planning  sampling-based motion planning  topologically distinct portions  topologically distinct paths  robotic motion planning  homotopy classes  topology-based path similarity metric  path deformation roadmaps  multiple homotopically distinct paths  Measurement  Planning  Strain  Algorithms  Merging  Manipulators 
Abstract: Many applications of robotic motion planning benefit from considering multiple homotopically distinct paths rather than a single path from start to goal. However, determining whether paths represent different homotopy classes can be difficult to compute. We propose metrics for efficiently approximating the homotopic similarity of two paths are, instead of verifying homotopy equivalence directly. We propose two metrics: (1) a naive application of local planning, a common subroutine of sampling-based motion planning, and (2) a novel approach that reasons about the topologically distinct portions of the workspace that a path visits. We present three applications of our metric to demonstrate its use and effectiveness: extracting topologically distinct paths from an existing roadmap, comparing paths for robot manipulators, and improving the computational efficiency of an existing sampling-based method, Path Deformation Roadmaps (PDRs), by over two orders of magnitude. We explore the trade-off between quality and computational efficiency in the proposed metrics.


Title: RG-Trees: Trajectory-Free Feedback Motion Planning Using Sparse Random Reference Governor Trees
Key Words: collision avoidance  feedback  mobile robots  motion control  robust control  sampling methods  trajectory control  trees (mathematics)  trajectory-free feedback motion planning  high dimensional configuration spaces  complex environments  open-loop trajectories  feedback control policies  dynamic robot  planned path  spatial constraints  statistical sampling techniques  control methods  feedback control theory perspective  constraint enforcement  feedback motion planner  trajectory-free novel feedback motion planning algorithm  random trees  tree part  collision-free region  connected simple polygonal regions  reference governor part  tree structure  RG-trees  sparse random reference governor  sampling based methods  Robots  Heuristic algorithms  Planning  Collision avoidance  Dynamics  Aerospace electronics  Navigation 
Abstract: Sampling based methods resulted in feasible and effective motion planning algorithms for high dimensional configuration spaces and complex environments. A vast majority of such algorithms as well as their application rely on generating a set of open-loop trajectories first, which are then tracked by feedback control policies. However, controlling a dynamic robot to follow the planned path, while respecting the spatial constraints originating from the obstacles is still a challenging problem. There are some studies which combine statistical sampling techniques and feedback control methods which address this challenge using different approaches. From the feedback control theory perspective, Reference Governors proved to be a useful framework for constraint enforcement. Very recently, Arslan and Koditschek (2017) introduced a feedback motion planner that utilizes Reference Governors that provably solves the motion planning problem in simplified spherical worlds. In this context, here we propose a “trajectory-free” novel feedback motion planning algorithm which combines the two ideas: random trees and reference governors. Random tree part of the algorithm generates a collision-free region as a set of connected simple polygonal regions. Then, reference governor part navigates the dynamic robot from one region to the adjacent region in the tree structure, ensuring it stays inside the current region and asymptotically reaches to the connected region. Eventually, our algorithm robustly routes the robot from the start location to the goal location without collision. We demonstrate the validity and feasibility of the algorithm on simulation studies.


Title: Real-Time Motion Planning in Changing Environments Using Topology-Based Encoding of Past Knowledge
Key Words: collision avoidance  encoding  graph theory  mobile robots  reachability analysis  topology  approximate Reeb graph  BKPIECE algorithms  topology-based encoding  trajectory planning  complex environments  DRM-connect algorithm  dynamic reachability maps  lazy collision checking  fallback strategy  RRT-connect algorithm  sparser roadmaps  motion planning  changing environments  Task analysis  Trajectory  Planning  Heuristic algorithms  Robots  Topology  Maintenance engineering 
Abstract: Trajectory planning and replanning in complex environments often reuses very little information from the previous solutions. This is particularly evident when the motion is repeated multiple times with only a limited amount of variation between each run. To address this issue, we propose the DRM-connect algorithm, a combination of dynamic reachability maps (DRM) with lazy collision checking and a fallback strategy based on the RRT-connect algorithm which is used to repair the roadmap through further exploration. This fallback allows us to use much sparser roadmaps. Furthermore, we investigate using an approximate Reeb graph to capture the topology-persistent features of the past solutions of the problem utilising this sparsity. We evaluate DRM-connect with a Reeb graph on reaching tasks, and we compare it to state-of-the-art methods. We show that the proposed method outperforms both RRT-connect and BKPIECE algorithms in the number of collision checks required and we show that our method has the potential to scale to systems with higher number degrees of freedom.


Title: Distributionally Robust Sampling-Based Motion Planning Under Uncertainty
Key Words: collision avoidance  feedback  Gaussian distribution  mobile robots  path planning  robot dynamics  sampling methods  stochastic processes  obstacle avoidance  unpredictable obstacle motion  uncertain obstacle location  kinodynamic motion planning  distributionally robust RRT  DR-RRT  Gaussian distributions  distributionally robust sampling  distributionally robust incremental sampling  Uncertainty  Planning  Trajectory  Robots  Feedback control  Probabilistic logic  Stochastic processes 
Abstract: We propose a distributionally robust incremental sampling-based method for kinodynamic motion planning under uncertainty, which we call distributionally robust RRT (DR-RRT). In contrast to many approaches that assume Gaussian distributions for uncertain parameters, here we consider moment-based ambiguity sets of distributions with given mean and covariance. Chance constraints for obstacle avoidance and internal state bounds are then enforced under the worst-case distribution in the ambiguity set, which gives a coherent assessment of constraint violation risks. The method generates risk-bounded trajectories and feedback control laws for robots operating in dynamic, cluttered, and uncertain environments, explicitly incorporating localization error, stochastic process disturbances, unpredictable obstacle motion, and uncertain obstacle location. We show that the algorithm is probabilistically complete under mild assumptions. Numerical experiments illustrate the effectiveness of the algorithm.


Title: Hierarchical Path Planner Using Workspace Decomposition and Parallel Task-Space RRTs
Key Words: collision avoidance  end effectors  trees (mathematics)  path planning problems  C-space planners  configuration space  robot end-effector  collision-free paths  workspace information  global planner  task-space RRTs  workspace decomposition  hierarchical path planner  Task analysis  Path planning  End effectors  Partitioning algorithms  Collision avoidance 
Abstract: This paper presents a hierarchical path planner consisting of two stages: a global planner that uses workspace information to create collision-free paths for the robot end-effector to follow, and multiple local planners running in parallel that verify the paths in the configuration space by expanding a task-space rapidly-exploring random tree (RRT). We demonstrate the practicality of our approach by comparing it with state-of-the-art planners in several challenging path planning problems. While using a single tree, our planner outperforms other single tree approaches in task-space or configuration space (C-space), while its performance and robustness are comparable to or better than that of parallelized bidirectional C-space planners.


Title: Kinodynamic Comfort Trajectory Planning for Car-Like Robots
Key Words: automobiles  collision avoidance  concave programming  force control  mobile robots  object detection  trajectory control  translational force  direct collocation method  smooth trajectory  kinodynamic comfort trajectory planning  car-like robots  personal autonomous mobility  comfortability  kinodynamic comfort path planning method  nonconvex objective function  bidirectional obstacle detection  obstacle avoidance  smooth trajectory generation  Robots  Acceleration  Planning  Trajectory optimization  System dynamics  Linear programming 
Abstract: As personal autonomous mobility is getting to be more widely adopted, it is more important to consider comfortability of stuffs and persons carried by such mobility. In this work, we define the comfort of a trajectory as forces, specifically, translational force, received to objects carried by a robot while following the trajectory by measuring impulse. To maximize such a comfort, we propose a novel, kinodynamic comfort path planning method based on our definition of comfort. Our work is based on direct collocation method for handling our nonconvex objective function. We also introduce Bidirectional Obstacle Detection(BOD)that identifies the distances along the perpendicular directions to the trajectory. This is mainly designed for avoiding obstacles while minimizing forces causing discomfort. Our experimental results show that our method can compute trajectories whose comfort measures can be up to 18 times higher than those computed by prior related objectives, e.g., squared velocity used for generating smooth trajectory.


Title: Expert-Guided Kinodynamic RRT Path Planner for Non-Holonomic Robots
Key Words: mobile robots  path planning  robot dynamics  nonholonomic robots  EGK-RRT  expert-guided kinodynamic RRT path planner  expert-guided kinodynamic RRT algorithm  deterministic control sequences  Robots  Navigation  Heuristic algorithms  Aerospace electronics  Path planning  Planning  Mathematical model 
Abstract: In this paper, an Expert-Guided Kinodynamic RRT algorithm (EGK-RRT) is presented. It aims to consider how a human pilot would navigate a kinodynamic robot. One of the characteristics of this algorithm is the fact that, unlike the original RRT for kinodynamic systems, it generates deterministic control sequences which can be reproduced as long as the sequence of references (sampled states) are known. Here, the performance of the proposed algorithm is tested against the basic RRT, showing that the EGK-RRT greatly improves in terms of execution speed. In addition to this, the influence of using a visibility check and an inertia estimation in order to select the nearest neighbor is also analyzed, demonstrating that a combination of both factors leads to a better overall performance, both in execution speed and in quality of the generated path.


Title: Robot Imitation Through Vision, Kinesthetic and Force Features with Online Adaptation to Changing Environments
Key Words: evolutionary computation  humanoid robots  human-robot interaction  optimisation  robot vision  trajectory control  optimization problem  continuous goal-directed actions  robot joint trajectories  online evolved trajectories  force features  iron actions  TEO full-sized humanoid robot  motor execution  CGDA execution  online evolutionary strategies  evolutionary algorithms  robot imitation framework  Trajectory  Robot sensing systems  Feature extraction  Force  Planning  Paints 
Abstract: Continuous Goal-Directed Actions (CGDA)is a robot imitation framework that encodes actions as the changes they produce on the environment. While it presents numerous advantages with respect to other robot imitation frameworks in terms of generalization and portability, final robot joint trajectories for the execution of actions are not necessarily encoded within the model. This is studied as an optimization problem, and the solution is computed through evolutionary algorithms in simulated environments. Evolutionary algorithms require a large number of evaluations, which had made the use of these algorithms in real world applications very challenging. This paper presents online evolutionary strategies, as a change of paradigm within CGDA execution. Online evolutionary strategies shift and merge motor execution into the planning loop. A concrete online evolutionary strategy, Online Evolved Trajectories (OET), is presented. OET drastically reduces computational times between motor executions, and enables working in real world dynamic environments and/or with human collaboration. Its performance has been measured against Full Trajectory Evolution (FTE)and Incrementally Evolved Trajectories (IET), obtaining the best overall results. Experimental evaluations are performed on the TEO full-sized humanoid robot with “paint” and “iron” actions that together involve vision, kinesthetic and force features.


Title: Learning Coordinated Vehicle Maneuver Motion Primitives from Human Demonstration
Key Words: control engineering computing  decision making  learning (artificial intelligence)  mobile robots  motion control  path planning  road vehicles  vehicle dynamics  human-vehicle interaction simulation framework  driving motions  vehicle maneuver motion primitives  driving decision-making  vehicle design  human demonstration  vehicle dynamics  motion control  motion primitive library  longitudinal vehicle control  motion reproduction  dynamic motion primitives  imitation learning methods  fixed-base driving simulation  vehicle maneuver motion planning  Vehicles  Computational modeling  Task analysis  Motion segmentation  Vehicle dynamics  Hidden Markov models  Dynamics 
Abstract: High-fidelity computational human models provide a safe and cost-efficient method for studying driver experience in vehicle maneuvers and for validation of vehicle design. Compared to passive human models, active human models capable of reproducing the decision-making, as well as vehicle maneuver motion planning and control, will be able to support realistic simulation of human-vehicle interaction. In this paper, we propose an integrated human-vehicle interaction simulation framework which learns vehicle maneuver motion primitives from human drivers, and uses them to compose natural and contextual driving motions. Specifically, we recruited six experienced drivers and recorded their vehicle maneuver motions on a fixed-base driving simulation testbed. We further segmented and classified the collected data based on their similarity in joint coordination. Using a combination of imitation learning methods, we extracted the regularity and variability of vehicle maneuver motions across subjects, and learned the dynamic motion primitives to be used for motion reproduction in simulation. We present an implementation of the framework on lower-extremity joint coordination in pedal activation for longitudinal vehicle control. Our research efforts lead to a motion primitive library which enables planning natural driver motions, and will be integrated with the driving decision-making, motion control, and vehicle dynamics in the proposed framework for simulating human-vehicle interaction.


Title: Deeply Informed Neural Sampling for Robot Motion Planning
Key Words: collision avoidance  computational complexity  feedforward neural nets  geometry  learning (artificial intelligence)  mobile robots  sampling methods  obstacle geometry  computational complexity  configuration space  optimal path solution  hand-crafted heuristics  high-dimensional spaces  neural network-based adaptive sampler  raw point cloud data  workspace encoding  collision-free optimal paths  point-mass robot  6-link robotic manipulator  dropout-based stochastic deep feedforward neural network  DeepSMPs neural architecture  deep sampling-based motion planner  robot motion planning  deeply informed neural sampling  contractive autoencoder  rigid-body  Planning  Robots  Encoding  Three-dimensional displays  Convergence  Switched mode power supplies  Transforms 
Abstract: Sampling-based Motion Planners (SMPs) have become increasingly popular as they provide collision-free path solutions regardless of obstacle geometry in a given environment. However, their computational complexity increases significantly with the dimensionality of the motion planning problem. Adaptive sampling is one of the ways to speed up SMPs by sampling a particular region of a configuration space that is more likely to contain an optimal path solution. Although there are a wide variety of algorithms for adaptive sampling, they rely on hand-crafted heuristics; furthermore, their performance decreases significantly in high-dimensional spaces. In this paper, we present a neural network-based adaptive sampler for motion planning called Deep Sampling-based Motion Planner (DeepSMP). DeepSMP generates samples for SMPs and enhances their overall speed significantly while exhibiting efficient scalability to higher-dimensional problems. DeepSMP's neural architecture comprises of a Contractive AutoEncoder which encodes given workspaces directly from a raw point cloud data, and a Dropout-based stochastic deep feedforward neural network which takes the workspace encoding, start and goal configuration, and iteratively generates feasible samples for SMPs to compute end-to-end collision-free optimal paths. DeepSMP is not only consistently computationally efficient in all tested environments but has also shown remarkable generalization to completely unseen environments. We evaluate DeepSMP on multiple planning problems including planning of a point-mass robot, rigid-body, 6-link robotic manipulator in various 2D and 3D environments. The results show that on average our method is at least 7 times faster in point-mass and rigid-body case and about 28 times faster in 6-link robot case than the existing state-of-the-art.


Title: Inverse Learning of Robot Behavior for Collaborative Planning
Key Words: behavioural sciences computing  decision making  learning (artificial intelligence)  mobile robots  multi-robot systems  optimisation  planning (artificial intelligence)  robots decision making  TurtleBots  Phantom X arms  line robots behavior  collaborative planning problem  colored-ball sorting task  unripe fruit  ripe fruit  IRL  inverse reinforcement learning  Task analysis  Planning  Robot kinematics  Sorting  Teamwork 
Abstract: Inverse reinforcement learning (IRL) is an important basis for learning from demonstrations. Observing an agent, human or robotic, perform a task provides information and facilitates learning the task. We show how the agent's preferences learned using IRL can be incorporated in a subject robot's decision making and planning, to enable the robot to spontaneously collaborate with the previously observed agent on the task. We prioritize a real-world application, where a line robot will autonomously collaborate with another robot in sorting ripe and unripe fruit such as oranges. Toward this, our evaluations utilize a colored-ball sorting task as an analog using simulated TurtleBots equipped with Phantom X arms. Our method is comprehensive providing first answers to questions such as how should the robot acquire the complete model for the collaborative planning problem and how should it solve the problem to obtain a plan that permits collaboration without disrupting the line robot's behavior.


Title: Integrating Path Planning and Pivoting
Key Words: end effectors  path planning  manipulator  pivoting strategy  Baxter robot  path planning  motion planning  in-hand manipulation  end-effector  Grippers  Task analysis  Friction  End effectors  Trajectory 
Abstract: In this work we propose a method for integrating motion planning and in-hand manipulation. Commonly addressed as a separate step from the final execution, in-hand manipulation allows the robot to reorient an object within the end-effector for the successful outcome of the goal task. A joint achievement of repositioning the object and moving the manipulator towards its desired final pose saves time in the execution and introduces more flexibility in the system. We address this problem using a pivoting strategy (i.e. in-hand rotation)for repositioning the object and we integrate this strategy with a path planner for the execution of a complex task. This method is applied on a Baxter robot and its efficacy is shown by experimental results.


Title: Contingent Contact-Based Motion Planning
Key Words: manipulators  mobile robots  path planning  robust control  POMDP-based planners  contingent contact-based motion planning  contact sensing capability  manipulation planner  conformant planners  high-dimensional configuration spaces  Robot sensing systems  Uncertainty  Planning  Partitioning algorithms  Vegetation 
Abstract: A robot with contact sensing capability can reduce uncertainty relative to the environment by deliberately moving into contact and matching the resulting contact measurement to different possible states in the world. We present a manipulation planner that finds and sequences these actions by reasoning explicitly about the uncertainty over the robot's state. The planner incrementally constructs a policy that covers all possible contact states during a manipulation and finds contingencies for each of them. In contrast to conformant planners (without contingencies), the planned contingent policies are more robust. We demonstrate this in simulated and real-world manipulation experiments. In contrast to POMDP-based planners, we show that our planner can be directly applied to high-dimensional configuration spaces.


Title: A Cable-Driven Redundant Spatial Manipulator with Improved Stiffness and Load Capacity
Key Words: control system synthesis  dexterous manipulators  end effectors  flexible manipulators  Jacobian matrices  manipulator kinematics  motion control  path planning  redundant manipulators  cable transmission mechanisms  load capacity experiments  relatively high stiffness  cable-driven redundant spatial manipulator  flexible manipulability  revolute rigid manipulators  mechanism design  manipulator dexterity  end-effector accuracy  active-passive-linkage segments  active-passive segment  manipulator kinematic equations  motion planning  Jacobian matrix  Denavit-Hartenberg method  D-H method  CRSM  Couplings  Kinematics  Springs  Task analysis  End effectors  Cable-driven  Redundant manipulator  Stiffness  Load capacity  Kinematic 
Abstract: With a light and slender body, a cable-driven redundant spatial manipulator (CRSM) has flexible manipulability and high maneuverability in confined environment. However, compared with revolute rigid manipulators, such type of manipulators generally has low stiffness and weak load capacity. In this paper, we propose a new mechanism design to improve the stiffness and load capacity without sacrificing the manipulator dexterity and the end-effector accuracy. The manipulator is composed of 3 active-passive-linkage segments and 1 active tool end-effector. Each active-passive segment has 2 degrees of freedom (DOFs) driven by three evenly distributed cables. Pretension mechanism and linkage cables are designed to keep strict equal angles of adjacent joints. A separable control box, which contains all the motors and cable transmission mechanisms is also designed with a quick release-and-lock mechanism. Therefore, the robotic arm can be easily removed and installed. Based on the equal angle characteristic, kinematic equations of manipulator are established with Denavit-Hartenberg (D-H) method and the Jacobian matrix is also simplified. Further analysis of the workspace supplies the guidance for the task design and motion planning. Finally, a prototype system is developed to perform the stiffness and load capacity experiments. Experimental results show that the developed CRSM has relatively high stiffness and load capacity.


Title: Nonprehensile Pushing Manipulation Strategies for a Multi-Limb Robot*
Key Words: legged locomotion  manipulators  mobile robots  motion control  path planning  position control  system states  system trajectory  nonprehensile  manipulation strategies  multilimb robot  control strategy  point contacts  contact velocity constraint  force constraint  system forces  system dynamic models  Robot kinematics  Force  Acceleration  Humanoid robots  Legged locomotion  Friction 
Abstract: This paper explores the control strategy for a multi-limb robot nonprehensilely pushing an object to slide on the floor. The robot's limb distals perform point contacts with the object and the floor. The contact velocity constraint and force constraint are proposed to prevent separation and restrict the system forces. Then the constraints are combined with the system dynamic models to obtain bounds on the system states. We solve the motion planning problem by selecting a feasible path in the reduced-dimensional space and generating the system trajectory along the selected path. An example is provided to illustrate the application of our technique on the physical platform.


Title: Model Predictive Trajectory Tracking and Collision Avoidance for Reliable Outdoor Deployment of Unmanned Aerial Vehicles
Key Words: autonomous aerial vehicles  collision avoidance  feedback  mobile robots  multi-robot systems  predictive control  state feedback  trajectory control  prediction horizon  decentralized collision avoidance system  fast nonlinear feedback  virtual UAV  translational dynamics  nonlinear state feedback  linear model predictive controller  optimal trajectory tracking  unmanned aerial vehicles  model predictive trajectory tracking  priority-based collision resolution strategy  tracking mechanism  in-advance collision-free planning  linear MPC  Trajectory  Collision avoidance  Unmanned aerial vehicles  Robot kinematics  Planning  Robot sensing systems 
Abstract: We propose a novel approach for optimal trajectory tracking for unmanned aerial vehicles (UAV), using a linear model predictive controller (MPC) in combination with non-linear state feedback. The solution relies on fast onboard simulation of the translational dynamics of the UAV, which is guided by a linear MPC. By sampling the states of the virtual UAV, we create a control command for fast non-linear feedback, which is capable of performing agile maneuvers with high precision. In addition, the proposed pipeline provides an interface for a decentralized collision avoidance system for multi-UAY scenarios. Our solution makes use of the long prediction horizon of the linear MPC and allows safe outdoors execution of multi-UAV experiments without the need for in-advance collision-free planning. The practicality of the tracking mechanism is shown in combination with priority-based collision resolution strategy, which performs sufficiently in experiments with up to 5 UAVs. We present a statistical and experimental evaluation of the platform in both simulation and real-world examples, demonstrating the usability of the approach.


Title: Light-Weight Object Detection and Decision Making via Approximate Computing in Resource-Constrained Mobile Robots
Key Words: decision making  Markov processes  mobile robots  object detection  path planning  robot vision  light-weight object detection  approximate computing  resource-constrained mobile robots  autonomous flights  indoor environments  point clouds  computer vision algorithms  mobile autonomous platforms  video data  decision making  geometric maps  Markov decision process framework  Object detection  Proposals  Roads  Support vector machines  Computer vision  Cameras 
Abstract: Most of the current solutions for autonomous flights in indoor environments rely on purely geometric maps (e.g., point clouds). There has been, however, a growing interest in supplementing such maps with semantic information (e.g., object detections) using computer vision algorithms. Unfortunately, there is a disconnect between the relatively heavy computational requirements of these computer vision solutions, and the limited computation capacity available on mobile autonomous platforms. In this paper, we propose to bridge this gap with a novel Markov Decision Process framework that adapts the parameters of the vision algorithms to the incoming video data rather than fixing them a priori. As a concrete example, we test our framework on a object detection and tracking task, showing significant benefits in terms of energy consumption without considerable loss in accuracy, using a combination of publicly available and novel datasets.


Title: Algorithmization of Constrained Motion for Car-Like Robots Using the VFO Control Strategy with Parallelized Planning of Admissible Funnels
Key Words: automobiles  collision avoidance  control system synthesis  feedback  mobile robots  motion control  robust control  input constraints  control input signals  admissible funnels  planning process  constrained motion  car-like robots  VFO control strategy  parallelized planning  car-like kinematics  mobile robotics  intelligent vehicles  feedback control algorithms  motion execution  VFO control law  state constraints  motion planning algorithms  robot actuation  open loop control signals  parallelized deterministic sampling-based algorithm  vector field orientation  steering dynamics  modeling uncertainties  Robots  Planning  Kinematics  Electron tubes  Vehicle dynamics  Uncertainty  Feedback control 
Abstract: Vehicles with car-like kinematics are ubiquitous, therefore an ability to algorithmize (i.e., how to plan and effectively execute) complex maneuvers in the presence of obstacles is vital to mobile robotics and intelligent vehicles. Traditionally, this problem is solved using the well known motion planning algorithms, which generate the open-loop control signals neglecting the effects of measurement noises, modeling uncertainties and imperfect robot actuation. While such effects can be compensated to some extent by online replanning, the application of feedback control algorithms to motion execution is unavoidable if robustness of the system is desired. Consequently, the recent works focus on integration of both motion planning and control algorithms to obtain motion plans robust to uncertainty of the initial conditions. In accordance with this trend, we propose a modified VFO (Vector Field Orientation) control law, which is designed to satisfy the state and input constraints resulting from the presence of obstacles in the environment, respect the steering angle limits in conjunction with steering dynamics of the car-like robot, and preserve continuity of the control input signals. Thanks to analytic characterization of admissible funnels (i.e. positively invariant subsets of the configuration space) developed from an analysis of the VFO control law, we guarantee satisfaction of all the mentioned constraints in the continuous domains of time and configuration space of the robot without sacrificing computational efficiency of the planning process. A specific funnel is planned with a highly parallelized deterministic sampling-based algorithm achieving quasi-real-time performance.


Title: ASPiC: An Acting System Based on Skill Petri Net Composition
Key Words: path planning  Petri nets  robots  ASPiC  acting system  skill Petri net composition  high-level action  executable commands  autonomous robots  formal model  robot skills  control-flow Petri net model  autonomous surface vehicle  area protection mission  Petri nets  Robots  Analytical models  Adaptation models  Tools  Planning  Inductors 
Abstract: Acting systems aim at refining high-level actions into executable commands, while managing access to resources, possible failures, or any other unpredictable situation. Improving the trust on autonomous robots also requires to have a formal model of acting, and the capability to perform some analysis on this model. In this paper, we present ASPiC, an acting system based on the modeling of robot's skills using a specific control-flow Petri net model. The skills can then be combined using well-defined operators to build a complete plan that refines a high-level action. Some properties are guaranteed by construction, while others can be verified on the resulting plan model. ASPiC is finally applied to an area protection mission by an autonomous surface vehicle.


Title: On the Orientation Planning with Constrained Angular Velocity and Acceleration at Endpoints
Key Words: humanoid robots  interpolation  path planning  polynomials  position control  splines (mathematics)  spline trajectories  time curves  quaternion coefficients  unitariness condition  quaternion representation  on-line update mechanism  anthropomorphic robot upper-body  real-time compatibility  constrained angular velocity  orientation planning algorithms  task space trajectory generation  robotics applications  continuous acceleration profiles  realtime implementation  Quaternions  Interpolation  Acceleration  Robots  Splines (mathematics)  Trajectory  Planning 
Abstract: This paper presents orientation planning algorithms respecting the requirements of task space trajectory generation, particularly in robotics applications. The proposed algorithms fulfill the following conditions: (i) permitting to impose constraints at angular velocity and acceleration in addition to orientation at endpoints; (ii) rendering continuous acceleration profiles even when interpolating multiple orientations; and (iii) being computationally fast enough for realtime implementation. The generated spline trajectories are essentially a concatenation of polynomial in time curves parameterized by quaternion coefficients. To impose the unitariness condition critically required for quaternion representation of orientation, we develop an on-line update mechanism which successively reparameterizes the polynomials constructing the spline, towards suppressing distortions that the normalization operation might incur. Experiments on an anthropomorphic robot upper-body are carried out to demonstrate the efficacy and real-time compatibility of the proposed algorithms in comparison with a standard spherical interpolation method.


Title: Coverage Path Planning with Adaptive Viewpoint Sampling to Construct 3D Models of Complex Structures for the Purpose of Inspection
Key Words: autonomous aerial vehicles  image sampling  mobile robots  path planning  robot vision  search problems  adaptive search space coverage path planner  unmanned aerial vehicle  coverage path planning  adaptive sampling  onboard sensors  reference model  accurate 3D models  complex structure  adaptive viewpoint sampling  Sensors  Adaptation models  Path planning  Solid modeling  Entropy  Clustering algorithms  Octrees 
Abstract: In this paper, we introduce a coverage path planning algorithm with adaptive viewpoint sampling to construct accurate 3D models of complex large structures using Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV). The developed algorithm, Adaptive Search Space Coverage Path Planner (ASSCPP), utilizes an existing 3D reference model of the complex structure and the onboard sensors' noise models to generate paths that are evaluated based on the traveling distance and the quality of the model. The algorithm generates a set of viewpoints by performing adaptive sampling that directs the search towards areas with low accuracy and low coverage. The algorithm predicts the coverage percentage obtained by following the generated coverage path using the reference model. A set of experiments were conducted in real and simulated environments with structures of different complexities to test the validity of the proposed algorithm.


Title: Solving Markov Decision Processes with Reachability Characterization from Mean First Passage Times
Key Words: decision making  decision theory  iterative methods  Markov processes  reachability analysis  robots  Markov decision processes  reachability characterization  reachability landscape  MFPT-VI  MFPT-PI  mean first passage time based value iteration  mean first passage time based policy iteration  robotic decision-making  numerical evaluation  Convergence  Markov processes  Mathematical model  Approximation algorithms  Planning  Linear systems  Standards 
Abstract: A new mechanism for efficiently solving the Markov decision processes (MDPs) is proposed in this paper. We introduce the notion of reachability landscape where we use the Mean First Passage Time (MFPT) as a means to characterize the reachability of every state in the state space. We show that such reachability characterization very well assesses the importance of states and thus provides a natural basis for effectively prioritizing states and approximating policies. Built on such a novel observation, we design two new algorithms - Mean First Passage Time based Value Iteration (MFPT-VI) and Mean First Passage Time based Policy Iteration (MFPT-PI) - that have been modified from the state-of-the-art solution methods. To validate our design, we have performed numerical evaluations in robotic decision-making scenarios, by comparing the proposed new methods with corresponding classic baseline mechanisms. The evaluation results showed that MFPT-VI and MFPT-PI have outperformed the state-of-the-art solutions in terms of both practical runtime and number of iterations. Aside from the advantage of fast convergence, this new solution method is intuitively easy to understand and practically simple to implement.


Title: Dual-Arm Coordinated Motion Planning and Compliance Control for Capturing Moving Objects with Large Momentum
Key Words: compliance control  force control  Jacobian matrices  manipulators  motion control  optimal control  path planning  trajectory control  dual-arm coordinated motion planning  dual-arm robot  operational force control  dual-arm capturing motion  object tracking  compliance control  null-space projected relative Jacobian  collocation trajectory optimization  Planning  Force  Robot kinematics  Jacobian matrices  Trajectory  Tracking 
Abstract: Capturing a moving object with large momentum by a dual-arm robot is especially challenging because of the requirement of dual-arm coordinated motion planning for tracking the moving object, and the operational force control for contact and momentum transfer. In this paper, we present a dual-arm coordinated motion planning and compliance control method with a unique null-space projected relative Jacobian and relative operational force between the two arms. The proposed method is able to plan dual-arm capturing motion and control the capturing force without disturbing the tracking motion. We have also adopted a direct collocation trajectory optimization method to generate optimal trajectory to decrease the object's momentum with minimum effort. Simulation and experiment of dual-arm robots picking up a moving box on a mobile platform are carried out to verify the proposed method.


Title: A Model Predictive Control Approach for Vision-Based Object Grasping via Mobile Manipulator
Key Words: collision avoidance  dexterous manipulators  end effectors  grippers  image colour analysis  image sensors  mobile robots  motion control  nonlinear control systems  path planning  predictive control  robot vision  reach-to-grasp motion  optimal grasping regions  vision-based object grasping  motion control architecture  mobile manipulator system  partial point cloud  onboard RGB-D sensor system  KUKA Youbot  static obstacles  reach-to-grasp scenarios  model predictive control approach  nonlinear model predictive control scheme  Grasping  Three-dimensional displays  Manipulators  Grippers  Robot sensing systems  Predictive control 
Abstract: This paper presents the design of a vision-based object grasping and motion control architecture for a mobile manipulator system. The optimal grasping areas of the object are estimated using the partial point cloud acquired from an onboard RGB-D sensor system. The reach-to-grasp motion of the mobile manipulator is handled via a Nonlinear Model Predictive Control scheme. The controller is formulated accordingly in order to allow the system to operate in a constrained workspace with static obstacles. The goal of the proposed scheme is to guide the robot's end-effector towards the optimal grasping regions with guaranteed input and state constraints such as occlusion and obstacle avoidance, workspace boundaries and field of view constraints. The performance of the proposed strategy is experimentally verified using an 8 Degrees of Freedom KUKA Youbot in different reach-to-grasp scenarios.


Title: Coupling Mobile Base and End-Effector Motion in Task Space
Key Words: approximation theory  collision avoidance  end effectors  manipulator dynamics  manipulator kinematics  mobile robots  couple robot base  kinematic constraints  mobile manipulators  model-based dynamic systems  in-depth knowledge  motion planning  task space  end-effector motion  coupling mobile base  kinematically feasible trajectories  robots kinematic design  arbitrary dynamical systems  End effectors  Trajectory  Task analysis  Grippers  Dynamics  Planning 
Abstract: Dynamic systems are a practical alternative to motion planning in executing robot actions. They are of particular interest in Learning from Demonstration, as here we aim to carry out actions in a certain fashion, without a model or in-depth knowledge about the world, which might be difficult to achieve with a planner. Using model-based dynamic systems in task space enables robots to flexibly reproduce demonstrated actions. Nevertheless, when dealing with mobile manipulators, we face the challenge of including the kinematic constraints of the robot in the action models. In this paper we propose to couple robot base and end-effector motions generated by arbitrary dynamical systems modulating the base velocity, while respecting the robots kinematic design. To this end we learn an approximation of the inverse reachability in closed form. In real-world robot experiments we demonstrate that we are able to maintain kinematically feasible trajectories in the presence of obstacles and in configurations differing profoundly from the training scene.


Title: Motion Planning for an Underwater Mobile Manipulator by Exploiting Loose Coupling
Key Words: autonomous underwater vehicles  manipulators  motion control  path planning  trajectory control  intervention autonomous underwater vehicle  MR-MHA *  multirepresentation multiheuristic A*  realistic simulated underwater intervention environment  intervention mission  generated trajectories  high-dimensional underwater manipulator  search-based planner  motion coordination  complex manipulation tasks  floating-based intervention  task-priority redundancy control framework  GIRONA 500  SAUVIM  autonomous manipulation skills  I-AUV  underwater mobile manipulator  motion planning  Task analysis  Planning  Manipulators  Search problems  Trajectory  Kinematics 
Abstract: Intervention Autonomous Underwater Vehicle or I-AUV has recently started to grab researchers attention in the last 20 years. Only three I-AUVs have demonstrated autonomous manipulation skills: ALIVE, SAUVIM and GIRONA 500. While prior systems rely on variations of the task-priority redundancy control framework, our recent research showed preliminary results using motion planning for floating-based intervention in the presence of obstacles. With the increasing need for autonomously performing more complex manipulation tasks, two main challenges need to be addressed: the high-dimensionality of the system, and the motion coordination between the mobile base and the working arm. The latter challenge is of high importance if accurate execution is required, especially considering the floating nature of the AUV and the control challenges that come with it. Our approach relies on exploiting the loose coupling between the AUV and the arm. In particular we present an approach based on MR-MHA * (Multi-Representation, Multi-Heuristic A*), and we show how it can generate efficient trajectories by exploiting decoupling. We show for the first time the use of a search-based planner on a high-dimensional underwater manipulator. In addition, we support our claims with experimental analysis of the generated trajectories with respect to various metrics in different environments. Furthermore, we demonstrate the ability of our approach to conduct a full intervention mission in a realistic simulated underwater intervention environment.


Title: Dynamic Model Learning and Manipulation Planning for Objects in Hospitals Using a Patient Assistant Mobile (PAM)Robot
Key Words: collision avoidance  hospitals  manipulator dynamics  medical robotics  mobile robots  predictive control  probability  PAM robot  probabilistic method  2-wheel walker  autonomous learning  fall prevention  maneuvers mobility aids  patient assistant mobile robot  dynamic model learning  collision-free manipulation  4-legged walker  hybrid MPC-based manipulation planning algorithm  one-wheel point-mass model  hybrid control system  motion interactions  minimal force  approximate dynamic model  Legged locomotion  Dynamics  Planning  Manipulator dynamics  Grippers 
Abstract: One of the most concerning and costly problems in hospitals is patients falls. We address this problem by introducing PAM, a patient assistant mobile robot, that maneuvers mobility aids to assist with fall prevention. Common objects found inside hospitals include objects with legs (i.e. walkers, tables, chairs, equipment stands). For a mobile robot operating in such environments, safely maneuvering these objects without collision is essential. Since providing the robot with dynamic models of all possible legged objects that may exist in such environments is not feasible, autonomous learning of an approximate dynamic model for these objects would significantly improve manipulation planning. We describe a probabilistic method to do this by fitting pre-categorized object models learned from minimal force and motion interactions with an object. In addition, we account for multiple manipulation strategies, which requires a hybrid control system comprised of discrete grasps on legs and continuous applied forces. To do this, we use a simple one-wheel point-mass model. A hybrid MPC-based manipulation planning algorithm was developed to compensate for modeling errors. While the proposed algorithm applies to a broad range of legged objects, we only show results for the case of a 2-wheel, 4-legged walker in this paper. Simulation and experimental tests show that the obtained dynamic model is sufficiently accurate for safe and collision-free manipulation. When combined with the proposed manipulation planning algorithm, the robot can successfully move the object to a desired position without collision.


Title: A Probabilistic Approach to Benchmarking and Performance Evaluation of Robot Systems
Key Words: path planning  probability  robots  performance degradation  probabilistic approach  performance evaluation  robot system  human-robot interaction  task planning  robotics  benchmarking evaluation  performance assessment problem  Task analysis  Robots  Benchmark testing  Reliability  Measurement  Approximation algorithms  Probabilistic logic 
Abstract: Problem benchmarks are used in experimental science as a reference against which results of experiments using distinct approaches to solve the problem are compared and evaluated in relative terms. In Robotics, just formulating a general performance assessment problem is difficult per se, as robot systems are composed of very diverse subsystems (e.g., localisation, human-robot interaction, task planning, motion planning). This paper introduces a probabilistic approach to benchmarking and evaluating performance of robot systems, which uses probability theory as the common language to quantify the performance of distinct functionalities of a robot system and their impact on the performance of a task carried out by that system. The approach can be used to analyse the performance of a task plan from the performances if its composing functionalities, or to (re)plan when a performance degradation in functionality is predicted to cause performance degradation of the task plan beyond acceptable limits.


Title: A Tutorial on Quantitative Trajectory Evaluation for Visual(-Inertial) Odometry
Key Words: distance measurement  mobile robots  path planning  pose estimation  robot vision  quantitative trajectory evaluation  trajectory alignment  specific sensing modality  error metrics  absolute trajectory error  relative error  visual odometry  Trajectory  Cameras  Noise measurement  Tutorials  Sensors  Visualization 
Abstract: In this tutorial, we provide principled methods to quantitatively evaluate the quality of an estimated trajectory from visual(-inertial) odometry (VO/VIO), which is the foundation of benchmarking the accuracy of different algorithms. First, we show how to determine the transformation type to use in trajectory alignment based on the specific sensing modality (i.e., monocular, stereo and visual-inertial). Second, we describe commonly used error metrics (i.e., the absolute trajectory error and the relative error) and their strengths and weaknesses. To make the methodology presented for VO/VIO applicable to other setups, we also generalize our formulation to any given sensing modality. To facilitate the reproducibility of related research, we publicly release our implementation of the methods described in this tutorial.


Title: Edge and Corner Detection for Unorganized 3D Point Clouds with Application to Robotic Welding
Key Words: computer vision  edge detection  feature extraction  image recognition  image representation  image segmentation  stereo image processing  robotic welding  weld seams  point cloud  welding paths  Harris 3D  unorganized point clouds  edge detection method  local neighborhood  adaptive density  corner detector  clusters curvature vectors  RGB-D semantic segmentation  3D washer models  recall scores  automatic weld seam detection  Three-dimensional displays  Image edge detection  Welding  Feature extraction  Corner detection  Clustering algorithms  Detectors 
Abstract: In this paper, we propose novel edge and corner detection algorithms for unorganized point clouds. Our edge detection method evaluates symmetry in a local neighborhood and uses an adaptive density based threshold to differentiate 3D edge points. We extend this algorithm to propose a novel corner detector that clusters curvature vectors and uses their geometrical statistics to classify a point as corner. We perform rigorous evaluation of the algorithms on RGB-D semantic segmentation and 3D washer models from the ShapeNet dataset and report higher precision and recall scores. Finally, we also demonstrate how our edge and corner detectors can be used as a novel approach towards automatic weld seam detection for robotic welding. We propose to generate weld seams directly from a point cloud as opposed to using 3D models for offline planning of welding paths. For this application, we show a comparison between Harris 3D and our proposed approach on a panel workpiece.


Title: Fast Trajectory Planning for Automated Vehicles Using Gradient-Based Nonlinear Model Predictive Control
Key Words: gradient methods  mobile robots  nonlinear control systems  optimisation  path planning  predictive control  road vehicles  automated vehicles  motion trajectory planning  dynamically changing environment  nonlinear system dynamics  automated driving  nonlinear system model  optimization algorithms  gradient-based nonlinear model predictive control  standard PC  Mathematical model  Planning  Vehicle dynamics  Trajectory  Optimization  Task analysis  Heuristic algorithms 
Abstract: Motion trajectory planning is one crucial aspect for automated vehicles, as it governs the own future behavior in a dynamically changing environment. A good utilization of a vehicle's characteristics requires the consideration of the nonlinear system dynamics within the optimization problem to be solved. In particular, real-time feasibility is essential for automated driving, in order to account for the fast changing surrounding, e.g. for moving objects. The key contributions of this paper are the presentation of a fast optimization algorithm for trajectory planning including the nonlinear system model. Further, a new concurrent operation scheme for two optimization algorithms is derived and investigated. The proposed algorithm operates in the submillisecond range on a standard PC. As an exemplary scenario, the task of driving along a challenging reference course is demonstrated.


Title: Humanoid Navigation Planning in Large Unstructured Environments Using Traversability - Based Segmentation
Key Words: collision avoidance  humanoid robots  image segmentation  learning (artificial intelligence)  legged locomotion  motion control  planning (artificial intelligence)  robot kinematics  humanoid navigation planning  unstructured environments  disaster response efforts  navigation planners  considering palm contacts  impractical planning times  library-based method  easy-to-traverse part  discrete planners  easily-traversable segments  discrete-search planner  motion plans  standard discrete planning  navigation planning problems  traversability -based segmentation  Planning  Motion segmentation  Torso  Navigation  Humanoid robots  Foot 
Abstract: Humanoids' abilities to navigate stairs and uneven terrain make them well-suited for disaster response efforts. However, humanoid navigation in such environments is currently limited by the capabilities of navigation planners. Such planners typically consider only footstep locations, but planning with palm contacts may be necessary to cross a gap, avoid an obstacle, or maintain balance. However, considering palm contacts greatly increases the branching factor of the search, leading to impractical planning times for large environments. In previous work we explored using library-based methods to address difficult navigation planning problems requiring palm contacts, but such methods are not efficient when navigating an easy-to-traverse part of the environment. To maximize planning efficiency, we would like to use discrete planners when an area is easy to traverse and switch to the library-based method only when traversal becomes difficult. Thus, in this paper we present a method that 1) Plans a guiding torso path which accounts for the difficulty of traversing the environment as predicted by learned regressors; and 2) Decomposes the guiding path into a set of segments, each of which is assigned a motion mode (i.e. a set of feet and hands to use) and a planning method. Easily-traversable segments are assigned a discrete-search planner, while other segments are assigned a library-based method that fits existing motion plans to the environment near the given segment. Our results suggest that this segmentation approach greatly outperforms standard discrete planning and that using the library-based method for more difficult segments gives a benefit over using discrete planning.


Title: Guaranteed Coverage with a Blind Unreliable Robot
Key Words: graph theory  mobile robots  path planning  guaranteed coverage  blind unreliable robot  coverage planning  simple mobile robot  heuristic algorithm  specially-constructed graph  Robot sensing systems  Robot kinematics  Planning  Navigation  Computational modeling 
Abstract: We consider the problem of coverage planning for a particular type of very simple mobile robot. The robot must be able to translate in a commanded direction (specified in a global reference frame), with bounded error on the motion direction, until reaching the environment boundary. The objective, for a given environment map, is to generate a sequence of motions that is guaranteed to cover as large a portion of that environment as possible, in spite of the severe limits on the robot's sensing and actuation abilities. We show how to model the knowledge available to this kind of robot about its own position within the environment, show how to compute the region whose coverage can be guaranteed for a given plan, and characterize regions whose coverage cannot be guaranteed by any plan. We also describe a heuristic algorithm that generates coverage plans for this robot, based on a search across a specially-constructed graph. Simulation results demonstrate the effectiveness of the approach.


Title: Single Leg Dynamic Motion Planning with Mixed-Integer Convex Optimization
Key Words: actuators  approximation theory  convex programming  integer programming  Jacobian matrices  legged locomotion  path planning  quadratic programming  robot dynamics  trigonometrical terms  Jacobian matrix  optimization problem  mixed-integer quadratically-constrained program  convex outer approximation  torque ellipsoid  semidefinite program  bilinear terms  McCormick envelope convex relaxation  actuator torque  leg dynamic motion planning  MIQCP  SDP  mixed-integer convex programming  Torque  Dynamics  Planning  Legged locomotion  Ellipsoids  Trajectory 
Abstract: This paper proposes a mixed-integer convex programming formulation for dynamic motion planning. Many dynamic constraints such as the actuator torque constraint are nonlinear and non-convex due to the trigonometrical terms from the Jacobian matrix. This often causes the optimization problem to converge to local optima or even infeasible set. In this paper, we convexify the torque constraint by formulating a mixed-integer quadratically-constrained program (MIQCP). More specifically, the workspace is discretized into a union of disjoint polytopes and torque constraint is enforced upon a convex outer approximation of the torque ellipsoid, obtained by solving a semidefinite program (SDP). Bilinear terms are approximated by McCormick envelope convex relaxation. The proposed MIQCP framework could be solved efficiently to global optimum and the generated trajectories could exploit the rich features of the rough terrain without any initial guess from the designer. The demonstrated experiment results prove that this approach is currently capable of planning consecutive jumps that navigates a single-legged robot through challenging terrains.


Title: Multi-Layer Coverage Path Planner for Autonomous Structural Inspection of High-Rise Structures
Key Words: autonomous aerial vehicles  inspection  path planning  structural engineering  travelling salesman problems  autonomous structural inspection  high-rise structures  buildings  towers  unmanned aerial vehicle  multi-layer coverage path planner  3D coverage path planning  traveling salesman problem  Inspection  Three-dimensional displays  Path planning  Planning  Unmanned aerial vehicles  Solid modeling  Spirals 
Abstract: In this paper, a novel 3D coverage path planning method, which is efficient and practical for inspection of high-rise structures such as buildings or towers, using an unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV) is presented. Our approach basically focuses on developing a model-based path planner for structural inspection with a prior map, which is opposite to a non-model based exploration. The proposed method uses a volumetric map which is made before the path planning. With the map, the whole structure is divided into several layers for efficient path planning. Firstly, in each layer, a set of the normal vectors of the center point of every voxel is calculated, and then the opposing vectors become viewpoints. Due to too many viewpoints and an overlapped inspection surface, we down-sample them with a voxel grid filter. Then, the shortest tour connecting the reduced viewpoints must be computed with the Traveling Salesman Problem (TSP) solver. Lastly, all the paths in each layer are combined to form the complete path. The results are verified using simulations with a rotary wing UAV and compared with other state-of-the-art algorithm. It is proven that our method performs much better for structural inspection with respect to computation time as well as the coverage completeness.


Title: Down the CLiFF: Flow-Aware Trajectory Planning Under Motion Pattern Uncertainty
Key Words: mobile robots  path planning  flow-aware tralatory planning  motion pattern uncertainty  flow-aware trajectory  dynamic environments  flow model uncertainty  flow-aware planning  statistical model  map flow patterns  biasing functions  RRT* planning algorithm  CLiFF-map model  flow-compliant trajectories  flow motion patterns  Trajectory  Robots  Planning  Cost function  Uncertainty  Vehicle dynamics  Aerospace electronics 
Abstract: In this paper we address the problem of flow-aware trajectory planning in dynamic environments considering flow model uncertainty. Flow-aware planning aims to plan trajectories that adhere to existing flow motion patterns in the environment, with the goal to make robots more efficient, less intrusive and safer. We use a statistical model called CLiFF-map that can map flow patterns for both continuous media and discrete objects. We propose novel cost and biasing functions for an RRT* planning algorithm, which exploits all the information available in the CLiFF-map model, including uncertainties due to flow variability or partial observability. Qualitatively, a benefit of our approach is that it can also be tuned to yield trajectories with different qualities such as exploratory or cautious, depending on application requirements. Quantitatively, we demonstrate that our approach produces more flow-compliant trajectories, compared to two baselines.


Title: Efficient and Asymptotically Optimal Kinodynamic Motion Planning via Dominance-Informed Regions
Key Words: mobile robots  optimal control  path planning  robot dynamics  sampling methods  search problems  trees (mathematics)  dominance-informed regions  high quality path  search-based methods  sampling-based methods  DIRT  dominance-informed region tree  spatial exploration  robot dynamics  collision checking  informed search principles  asymptotically optimal kinodynamic motion planner  physics-based simulation  successful successor state  Task analysis  Trajectory  Planning  Aerospace electronics  Robots  Dynamics  Cost function 
Abstract: Motion planners have been recently developed that provide path quality guarantees for robots with dynamics. This work aims to improve upon their efficiency, while maintaining their properties. Inspired by informed search principles, one objective is to use heuristics. Nevertheless, comprehensive and fast spatial exploration of the state space is still important in robotics. For this reason, this work introduces Dominance-Informed Regions (DIR), which express both whether parts of the space are unexplored and whether they lies along a high quality path. Furthermore, to speed up the generation of a successful successor state, which involves collision checking or physics-based simulation, a proposed strategy generates the most promising successor in an informed way, while maintaing properties. Overall, this paper introduces a new informed and asymptotically optimal kinodynamic motion planner, the Dominance-Informed Region Tree (DIRT). The method balances exploration-exploitation tradeoffs without many explicit parameters. It is shown to outperform sampling-based and search-based methods for robots to significant dynamics.


Title: Dynamic Locomotion in the MIT Cheetah 3 Through Convex Model-Predictive Control
Key Words: convex programming  legged locomotion  predictive control  robot dynamics  torque control  torque-controlled quadruped robot  convex model-predictive control  MIT cheetah 3  dynamic locomotion  ground reaction force planning problems  convex optimization  robot dynamics  Robot kinematics  Legged locomotion  Dynamics  Predictive control  Convex functions  Predictive models 
Abstract: This paper presents an implementation of model predictive control (MPC) to determine ground reaction forces for a torque-controlled quadruped robot. The robot dynamics are simplified to formulate the problem as convex optimization while still capturing the full 3D nature of the system. With the simplified model, ground reaction force planning problems are formulated for prediction horizons of up to 0.5 seconds, and are solved to optimality in under 1 ms at a rate of 20-30 Hz. Despite using a simplified model, the robot is capable of robust locomotion at a variety of speeds. Experimental results demonstrate control of gaits including stand, trot, flying-trot, pronk, bound, pace, a 3-legged gait, and a full 3D gallop. The robot achieved forward speeds of up to 3 m/s, lateral speeds up to 1 m/s, and angular speeds up to 180 deg/sec. Our approach is general enough to perform all these behaviors with the same set of gains and weights.


Title: Faster Collision Checks for Car-Like Robot Motion Planning
Key Words: collision avoidance  geometry  mobile robots  motion control  rear disc  faster collision checks  system knowledge  nonholonomic motion  motion planning  frontal disc  car-like robot motion planning  predictive algorithm  Collision avoidance  Trajectory  Shape  Planning  Robot kinematics  Tuning 
Abstract: In this paper, we describe how collision checking for car-like robots can be sped up utilizing system knowledge. Their non-holonomic motion, while being a challenge for motion planning, is utilized here to place discs which are used as an approximation of the robot's shape in a predictive manner. For ease of comparison, we assume the robot to be rectangular, i. e., we use bounding boxes. Our algorithm is compared to a widely-used baseline and shows similar performance in terms of under- and oversampling while being approximately 20-40 % faster. Another feature of the algorithm is its predictive nature: with the frontal disc, we already check for collisions that would occur with the rear disc in the next sample, assuming near-constant curvature. While this might be conservative in some cases where large steering rates are necessary, in our evaluation even tight corridors could be navigated without negative effects.


Title: Combining Method of Alternating Projections and Augmented Lagrangian for Task Constrained Trajectory Optimization
Key Words: collision avoidance  convex programming  optimisation  path planning  robot dynamics  similar nature trajectory  off-the-shelf nonlinear solver  similar task constraint residuals  SciPy alternative  alternating projections  Augmented Lagrangian  task constrained trajectory optimization  task space constraints  joint configurations  implicitly defined manifold  task constrained motion planning  optimization problem  nonlinear equality constraints  nonlinear optimization techniques  custom optimizer  task constraints  efficient convex optimization  feasible solution  common robotic benchmark problems  cyclic motion  joint space  Task analysis  Planning  Trajectory optimization  Cost function  Kinematics 
Abstract: Motion planning for manipulators under task space constraints is difficult as it constrains the joint configurations to always lie on an implicitly defined manifold. It is possible to view task constrained motion planning as an optimization problem with non-linear equality constraints, which can be solved by general non-linear optimization techniques. In this paper, we present a novel custom optimizer which exploits the underlying structure present in many task constraints. At the core of our approach are some simple reformulations, which when coupled with the method of alternating projection, leads to an efficient convex optimization based routine for computing a feasible solution to the task constraints. We subsequently build on this result and use the concept of Augmented Lagrangian to guide the feasible solutions towards those that also minimize the user defined cost function. We show that the proposed optimizer is fully distributive and thus, can be easily parallelized. We validate our formulation on some common robotic benchmark problems. In particular, we show that the proposed optimizer achieves cyclic motion in the joint space corresponding to a similar nature trajectory in the task space. Furthermore, as a baseline, we compare the proposed optimizer with an off-the-shelf non-linear solver provide in open source package SciPy. We show that for similar task constraint residuals and smoothness cost, it can be upto more than three times faster than the SciPy alternative.


Title: A Software Framework for Planning Under Partial Observability
Key Words: application program interfaces  decision theory  Markov processes  mobile robots  path planning  planning (artificial intelligence)  software tools  robotics tasks  software tools  software toolkit  POMDP solvers  robot motion planning  partial observability problems  software framework  reliable robot operation  partially observable Markov decision process  abstract solver API  online POMDP planning toolkit  OPPT  Planning  Robot sensing systems  Computational modeling  Observability  Computer architecture  Standards 
Abstract: Planning under partial observability is both challenging and critical for reliable robot operation. The past decade has seen substantial advances in this domain: The mathematically principled approach for addressing such problems, namely the Partially Observable Markov Decision Process (POMDP), has started to become practical for various robotics tasks. Good approximate solutions for problems framed as POMDPs can now be computed on-line, with a few classes of problems being solved in near real-time. However, applications of these more recent advances are often hindered by the lack of easy-to-use software tools. Implementation of state of the art algorithms exist, but most (if not all)require the POMDP model to be hard-coded inside the program, increasing the difficulty of applying them. To alleviate this problem, we propose a software toolkit, called On-line POMDP Planning Toolkit (OPPT)(downloadable from http://robotics.itee.uq.edu.au/~oppt). By providing a well-defined and general abstract solver API, OPPT enables the user to quickly implement new POMDP solvers. Furthermore, OPPT provides an easy-to-use plug-in architecture with interfaces to the high-fidelity simulator Gazebo that, in conjunction with user-friendly configuration files, allows users to specify POMDP models of a standard class of robot motion planning under partial observability problems with no additional coding effort.


Title: Analytical Model of Thermal Soaring: Towards Energy Efficient Path Planning for Flying Robots
Key Words: aerospace robotics  biomimetics  continuous systems  discrete systems  mobile robots  path planning  simple hybrid control strategy  flying robot  energy efficient flying  thermal soaring behavior  energy efficient locomotion types  flying animals  energy efficient path planning  Mathematical model  Birds  Thermal loading  Analytical models  Robots  Aerodynamics  Thermal variables control  Bio-inspired model  Thermal soaring  Path planning  Flying locomotion  Hybrid controller 
Abstract: Developing analytical models of efficient locomotion in biology is one of the most interesting goals in bio- inspired robotics. This paper presents a mathematical framework in order to model one of the most energy efficient locomotion types in flying animals; i.e., thermal soaring. Unlike the legged locomotion, in flying, modeling the environmental effects on animals' behaviors is very important. In doing so, we develop our model by assuming thermals as bubbles of rising air. According to pieces of real evidence, this kind of modeling is more compatible with the nature of thermal soaring. Moreover, we present a simple hybrid control strategy for obtaining the optimal path in order to maximize benefit from the updraft of air-flow. By using this control strategy, the flying robot can plan a path for traveling between thermals without flapping; i.e., energy efficient flying. So as to investigate the compatibility of presented model and controller with reality, we set their parameters based on the biological evidences. As a result, in simulations, it is observed that the generated flying behavior is comparable with the thermal soaring behavior of real birds. This observation provides a confirmation for generality and applicability of the presented approach.


Title: An Everyday Robotic System that Maintains Local Rules Using Semantic Map Based on Long-Term Episodic Memory
Key Words: mobile robots  path planning  robot agent  local-rule-aware home assistive tasks  semantic map  long-term episodic memory  home environments  global society  probabilistic object localization map  Fetch robots  semantic common knowledge  PR2 robot  robotic system  time 41.0 d  Task analysis  Probabilistic logic  Semantics  Planning  Robot sensing systems  Solid modeling  Service Robots  Learning and Adaptive Systems  Big Data in Robotics and Automation 
Abstract: To enable robots to work on real home environments, they have to not only consider common knowledge in the global society, but also be aware of existing rules there. Since such “local rules” are not describable beforehand, robot agents must acquire them through their lives after deployment. To achieve this, we developed a framework that a) lets robots record long-term episodic memories in their deployed environments, b) autonomously builds probabilistic object localization map as structurization of logged data and c) make adapted task plans based on the map. We equipped our framework on PR2 and Fetch robots operating and recording episodic memory for 41 days with semantic common knowledge of the environment. We also conducted demonstrations in which a PR2 robot tidied up a room, showing that the robot agent can successfully plan and execute local-rule-aware home assistive tasks by using our proposed framework.


Title: Autonomous Navigation Using Multimodal Potential Field to Initiate Interaction with Multiple People
Key Words: human-robot interaction  image recognition  mobile robots  navigation  path planning  robot vision  sensors  path-planning  sensor characteristics  autonomous navigation  sensor data  human recognition reliability  human-robot interaction  multiple people  initiate interaction  multimodal potential field  Robot sensing systems  Reliability  Task analysis  Character recognition  Robot kinematics  Cameras 
Abstract: In a human-robot interaction, a robot needs to move to a position where the robot can obtain high reliability data of people, such as positions, postures, and voice. This is because the human recognition reliability depends on the positional relation between the people and the robot. In addition, the robot should choose the sensor data which is necessary to perform the interaction task. Therefore, it is necessary to navigate the robot to the position to obtain the data for initiation of the interaction task. Accordingly, we need to design a path-planning method considering sensor characteristics, human recognition reliability, and task contents. Although previous studies proposed path-planning methods using an interaction potential considering sensor characteristics, they did not consider the task contents and the human recognition reliability, which are important for practical application and did not applied to interaction with multiple people. Consequently, we present a path-planning method considering the task contents and the human recognition reliability using multimodal potential field integrating these information. We verified effectiveness of the path-planning method for interaction with multiple people.


Title: Design of an Autonomous Precision Pollination Robot
Key Words: greenhouses  mobile robots  motion control  path planning  precision robotic pollination systems  natural pollinators  uniformity  human population  ongoing development  autonomous robot  BrambleBee  ecology  visual perception  robust autonomous pollination system  autonomous precision pollination robot  Cameras  End effectors  Agriculture  Robot vision systems  Three-dimensional displays 
Abstract: Precision robotic pollination systems can not only fill the gap of declining natural pollinators, but can also surpass them in efficiency and uniformity, helping to feed the fast-growing human population on Earth. This paper presents the design and ongoing development of an autonomous robot named “BrambleBee”, which aims at pollinating bramble plants in a greenhouse environment. Partially inspired by the ecology and behavior of bees, BrambleBee employs state-of-the-art localization and mapping, visual perception, path planning, motion control, and manipulation techniques to create an efficient and robust autonomous pollination system.


Title: HERO: Accelerating Autonomous Robotic Tasks with FPGA
Key Words: convolutional neural nets  field programmable gate arrays  mobile robots  path planning  SLAM (robots)  motion planning tasks  HERO platform  CNN inference  autonomous robotic tasks  Heterogeneous Extensible Robot Open platform  OpenCL programming  SLAM  convolutional neural network inference  FPGA acceleration  heterogeneous computing  simultaneous localization and mapping  VGG-16  ResNet-50  Field programmable gate arrays  Kernel  Acceleration  Simultaneous localization and mapping  Task analysis  Planning 
Abstract: The Heterogeneous Extensible Robot Open (HERO) platform is designed for autonomous robotic research. While bringing in the flexible computational capacities by CPU and FPGA, it addresses the challenges of heterogeneous computing by embracing OpenCL programming. We propose heterogeneous computing approaches for three fundamental robotic tasks: simultaneous localization and mapping (SLAM), motion planning and convolutional neural network (CNN) inference. With FPGA acceleration, the SLAM and motion planning tasks are performed 2-4 times faster on the HERO platform against fine-tuned software implementation. For CNN inference, it can process 20-30 images per second with the network of VGG-16 or ResNet-50. We expect the open platform and the developing experiences shared in this paper can facilitate future robotic research, especially for those compute intensive tasks of perception, movement and manipulation.


Title: Quadtree-Accelerated Real-Time Monocular Dense Mapping
Key Words: autonomous aerial vehicles  image fusion  image motion analysis  image reconstruction  image resolution  mobile robots  path planning  quadtrees  robot vision  stereo image processing  real-time monocular dense mapping  truncated signed distance function  dense 3D maps  resolution depth maps  pixels  dynamic belief propagation  pixel selection  depth map  intensity image  quadtree structure  single localized moving camera  high-quality dense depth maps  robotic navigation  Cameras  Three-dimensional displays  Belief propagation  Estimation  Optimization  Real-time systems  Image resolution 
Abstract: In this paper, we propose a novel mapping method for robotic navigation. High-quality dense depth maps are estimated and fused into 3D reconstructions in real-time using a single localized moving camera. The quadtree structure of the intensity image is used to reduce the computation burden by estimating the depth map in multiple resolutions. Both the quadtree-based pixel selection and the dynamic belief propagation are proposed to speed up the mapping process: pixels are selected and optimized with the computation resource according to their levels in the quadtree. Solved depth estimations are further interpolated and fused temporally into full resolution depth maps and fused into dense 3D maps using truncated signed distance function (TSDF). We compare our method with other state-of-the-art methods using the public datasets. Onboard UAV autonomous flight is also used to further prove the usability and efficiency of our method on portable devices. For the benefit of the community, the implementation is also released as open source at https://github.com/HKUST-Aerial-Robotics/open_quadtree_mapping.


Title: Methods for Autonomous Wristband Placement with a Search-and-Rescue Aerial Manipulator
Key Words: aerospace control  autonomous aerial vehicles  convolutional neural nets  grippers  image colour analysis  learning (artificial intelligence)  manipulators  path planning  rescue robots  robot vision  SLAM (robots)  autonomous wristband placement  robotic system  automatic wristband placement  remote sensor readings  continuous health monitoring  unmanned aerial manipulator  automatic wrist detection  RGB-D camera  convolutional neural network  Faster R-CNN  passive detachable gripper  VGG-16 neural network  target localization  trajectory planning  machine learning  parallel delta manipulator  search-and-rescue aerial manipulator  search and rescue operations  unmanned aerial vehicles  Manipulators  Wrist  Cameras  Grippers  Robot kinematics  Robot sensing systems 
Abstract: A new robotic system for Search And Rescue (SAR) operations based on the automatic wristband placement on the victims' arm, which may provide identification, beaconing and remote sensor readings for continuous health monitoring. This paper focuses on the development of the automatic target localization and the device placement using an unmanned aerial manipulator. The automatic wrist detection and localization system uses an RGB-D camera and a convolutional neural network based on the region faster method (Faster R-CNN). A lightweight parallel delta manipulator with a large workspace has been built, and a new design of a wristband in the form of a passive detachable gripper, is presented, which, under contact, automatically attaches to the human, while disengages from the manipulator. A new trajectory planning method has been used to minimize the torques caused by the external forces during contact, which cause attitude perturbations. Experiments have been done to evaluate the machine learning method for detection and location, and for the assessment of the performance of the trajectory planning method. The results show how the VGG-16 neural network provides a detection accuracy of 67.99%. Moreover, simulation experiments have been done to show that the new trajectories minimize the perturbations to the aerial platform.


Title: Trajectory Planning for Heterogeneous Robot Teams
Key Words: collision avoidance  graph theory  helicopters  mobile robots  trajectory optimisation (aerospace)  trajectory planning method  heterogeneous mobile robot teams  graph-planning techniques  trajectory optimization  differential drive robots  inter-robot collision constraints  close-proximity flight  rotorcraft  quadrotors  Collision avoidance  Trajectory  Robot kinematics  Mobile robots  Schedules 
Abstract: We describe a trajectory planning method for heterogeneous mobile robot teams in known environments. We consider two core problems that arise with heterogeneous robot teams: asymmetric inter-robot collision constraints and varying dynamic limits. Asymmetric collision constraints are important for close-proximity flight of rotorcraft due to the downwash effect, which complicates spatial coordination. Varying dynamic limits complicate temporal coordination between robots and must be taken into account during planning. Our method builds upon a hybrid planner that combines graph-planning techniques with trajectory optimization and scales well to large homogeneous robot teams. We extend the hybrid planning approach to include the additional spatial and temporal coordination to support heterogeneous teams. Our method scales well with the number of robots and robot types and we demonstrate our approach on a team of 15 physical robots of 4 different types, including quadrotors and differential drive robots.


Title: A Motion Planning Approach for Marsupial Robotic Systems
Key Words: graph theory  mobile robots  multi-robot systems  path planning  free-space regions  topological graph planning  high-level motion plan  low-level path planner  motion planning approach  marsupial robotic systems  automatic coordination  heterogeneous multirobot teams  marsupial-based subset  carrier robots  passenger robots  high-level watershed segmentation  Robot kinematics  Planning  Trajectory  Robot sensing systems  Collision avoidance  Unmanned aerial vehicles 
Abstract: This paper outlines an algorithmic approach for the automatic coordination and planning of heterogeneous multi-robot teams. Specifically, this work addresses the marsupial-based subset of multi-robot teams, where “carrier” robots transport and deploy “passenger” robots. The approach starts with a high-level watershed segmentation of the world to determine the free-space regions accessible by each robot in the team. Topological graph planning then decides the high-level motion plan for each robot between these free-space regions. Finally, a low-level path planner generates optimized, dynamically-feasible trajectories for each robot along the topological path. The performance of the approach is evaluated in simulation and through hardware experiments.


Title: Motion Planning and Goal Assignment for Robot Fleets Using Trajectory Optimization
Key Words: integer programming  mobile robots  multi-robot systems  optimal control  path planning  quadratic programming  mixed integer quadratic programming  autonomous robots  automating fleets  trajectory optimization  robot fleets  fleet-wide boolean decision variables  phase solves  two-phase approach  nonholonomic robots  Optimal Control  fleet management problem  performance criterion  motion planning  goal assignment  Robot kinematics  Collision avoidance  Aerospace electronics  Indexes  Trajectory  Geometry 
Abstract: This paper is concerned with automating fleets of autonomous robots. This involves solving a multitude of problems, including goal assignment, motion planning, and coordination, while maximizing some performance criterion. While methods for solving these sub-problems have been studied, they address only a facet of the overall problem, and make strong assumptions on the use-case, on the environment, or on the robots in the fleet. In this paper, we formulate the overall fleet management problem in terms of Optimal Control. We describe a scheme for solving this problem in the particular case of fleets of non-holonomic robots navigating in an environment with obstacles. The method is based on a two-phase approach, whereby the first phase solves for fleet-wide boolean decision variables via Mixed Integer Quadratic Programming, and the second phase solves for real-valued variables to obtain an optimized set of trajectories for the fleet. Examples showcasing the features of the method are illustrated, and the method is validated experimentally.


Title: Re-Establishing Communication in Teams of Mobile Robots
Key Words: mobile robots  multi-robot systems  optimisation  path planning  probability  tree searching  wireless connection  constrained optimization problem  branch-and-bound approach  locally available information  belief  mobile robots  Task analysis  Robot kinematics  Search problems  Mobile robots  Markov processes 
Abstract: As communication is important for cooperation, teams of mobile robots need a way to re-establish a wireless connection if they get separated. We develop a method for mobile robots to maintain a belief of each other's positions using locally available information. They can use their belief to plan paths with high probabilities of reconnection. This approach also works for subteams cooperatively searching for a robot or group of robots that they would like to reconnect with. The problem is formulated as a constrained optimization problem which is solved using a branch-and-bound approach. We present simulation results showing the effectiveness of this strategy at reconnecting teams of up to five robots and compare the results to two other strategies.


Title: Multi-Agent Planning for Coordinated Robotic Weed Killing
Key Words: agriculture  crops  environmental factors  industrial robots  mobile robots  multi-agent systems  path planning  multiagent planning  coordinated robotic Weed killing  coordinated multiagent weeding  partial environmental information  coordination strategies  weeding performance  autonomous agricultural robots  system performance  Weed World  coordinated weeding policies  realistic weed generation  initial seed bank densities  weeding process  required number  Agriculture  Robot kinematics  Optimization  Immune system  Chemicals  Soil 
Abstract: This work presents a strategy for coordinated multi-agent weeding under conditions of partial environmental information. The goal of this work is to demonstrate the feasibility of coordination strategies for improving the weeding performance of autonomous agricultural robots. We show that, given a sufficient number of agents, the algorithm can successfully weed fields with various initial seed bank densities, even when multiple days are allowed to elapse before weeding commences. Furthermore, the use of coordination between agents is demonstrated to strongly improve system performance as the number of agents increases, enabling the system to eliminate all the weeds in the field, as in the case of full environmental information, when the planner without coordination failed to do so. As a domain to test our algorithms, we have developed an open source simulation environment, Weed World, which allows real-time visualization of coordinated weeding policies, and includes realistic weed generation. In this work, experiments are conducted to determine the required number of agents and their required transit speed, for given initial seed bank densities and varying allowed days before the start of the weeding process.


Title: SEAR: A Polynomial- Time Multi-Robot Path Planning Algorithm with Expected Constant-Factor Optimality Guarantee
Key Words: computational complexity  graph theory  mobile robots  multi-robot systems  optimisation  path planning  statistical distributions  polynomial-time multirobot path planning algorithm  expected constant-factor optimality guarantee  arbitrary initial goal arrangements  continuous 2D domains  continuous 3D domains  uniformly randomly distributed  microMVP platform  nonholonomic robots  near-optimal solutions  nonpolynomial time  initial goal configuration footprints  constant-factor expansion  Robots  Path planning  Collision avoidance  Labeling  Routing  Pipelines  Planning 
Abstract: We study the labeled multi-robot path planning problem in continuous 2D and 3D domains in the absence of obstacles where robots must not collide with each other. For an arbitrary number of robots in arbitrary initial and goal arrangements, we derive a polynomial time, complete algorithm that produces solutions with constant-factor optimality guarantees on both makespan and distance optimality, in expectation, under the assumption that the robot labels are uniformly randomly distributed. Our algorithm only requires a small constant-factor expansion of the initial and goal configuration footprints for solving the problem, i.e., the problem can be solved in a fairly small bounded region. Beside theoretical guarantees, we present a thorough computational evaluation of the proposed solution. In addition to the baseline implementation, adapting an effective (but non-polynomial time) routing subroutine, we also provide a highly efficient implementation that quickly computes near-optimal solutions. Hardware experiments on the microMVP platform composed of non-holonomic robots confirms the practical applicability of our algorithmic pipeline.


Title: Towards Peak Torque Minimization for Modular Self-Folding Robots
Key Words: mobile robots  torque  trees (mathematics)  two-dimensional patterns  robotic inertia  modular architecture  minimal bounding box  robotic base selection  modular origami robot  modular robotic systems  peak torque minimization  modular self-folding robots  capacitated spanning tree heuristic algorithms  Mori  Robots  Torque  Planning  Shape  Heuristic algorithms  Computer architecture  Force 
Abstract: Modular self-folding robots are versatile systems that can change their own shape from two-dimensional patterns at instant commands. This reconfigurability is commonly restrained by power limitation in autonomous environments, The robotic systems with insufficient torque may lead to inaccurate movements and even transformation failures. This paper presents methodology for optimized reconfiguration planning with torque limitation in modular self-folding robots. We determine reconfiguration schemes with optimal initial pattern and robotic base that result in minimal peak torque by minimizing robotic inertia of the modular architecture. We present minimal bounding box and capacitated spanning tree heuristic algorithms to generate optimal initial patterns and propose 3 heuristic rules for robotic base selection. Our approach is demonstrated in simulation by applying the algorithms to the robotic concept of Mori, a modular origami robot. The simulation results show that the proposed algorithms yield reconfiguration schemes with low peak torque, thereby appropriate for real-time applications in modular robotic systems.


Title: Dynamic Modelling and Motion Planning for the Nonprehensile Manipulation and Locomotion Tasks of the Quadruped Rsbot*This work is supported by the project of Robotics Innovation Based on Advanced Materials under Ritsumeikan Global Innovation Research Organization (R-GIRO)
Key Words: legged locomotion  manipulator dynamics  motion control  path planning  Drive Mode  Inchworm Mode  Scoot Mode  universal model  dynamic equation  contact force constraints  system state variables  system state paths  robot motions  nonprehensile manipulation  locomotion tasks  quadruped robot  dynamic modelling  motion planning method  state acceleration constraints  Robot kinematics  Legged locomotion  Force  Friction  Mathematical model  Planning 
Abstract: This paper presents the dynamic modelling and motion planning method for a quadruped robot that uses its legs for nonprehensile manipulation as well as locomotion. Three different working modes named Drive Mode, Inchworm Mode and Scoot Mode are proposed to enable the robot to move forward together with the object. We firstly introduce a universal model for these modes and deduce its dynamic equation. Then the contact force constraints are combined and mapped to the system state variables. Based on the acquired state acceleration constraints, the motion planning problem can be solved by designing system state paths in the phase space. After that, we described the mathematical problems within the three working modes and generate the robot motions accordingly. Finally, experimental results obtained through simulations and physical tests are reported to demonstrate the effectiveness of our method.


Title: Magnetic-Field-Inspired Navigation for Soft Continuum Manipulator*This work was supported in part by King's College London, the EPSRC in the framework of the NCNR (National Centre for Nuclear Robotics) project (EP/R02572X/1), the STIFF-FLOP project grant from the European Communities Seventh Framework Programme under grant agreement 287728, and the Indonesia Endowment Fund for Education, Ministry of Finance Republic of Indonesia.
Key Words: collision avoidance  manipulators  mobile robots  navigation  path planning  2-segment soft continuum arm  unknown environments  reactive navigation method  magnetic fields  soft continuum manipulator  magnetic-field-inspired navigation  Manipulators  Navigation  Force  Wires  Collision avoidance  Service robots 
Abstract: Taking inspiration from the properties of magnetic fields, we propose a reactive navigation method for soft continuum manipulators operating in unknown environments. The proposed navigation method outperforms previous works since it is able to successfully achieve collision-free movements towards the goal in environments with convex obstacles without relying on a priori information of the obstacles' shapes and locations. Simulations for the kinematic model of a soft continuum manipulator and preliminary experiments with a 2-segments soft continuum arm are performed, showing promising results and the potential for our approach to be applied widely.


Title: FOCS: Planning by Fusion of Optimal Control & Search and its Application to Navigation
Key Words: graph theory  optimal control  path planning  car-like vehicle  Hamilton-Jacobi-Bellman equation  FOCS  minimum-time path  returned path  sub-optimality  path planning  Search-based Planning  Optimal Control & Search  Planning  Optimal control  Robots  Optimized production technology  Heuristic algorithms  Dynamic programming  Search problems 
Abstract: Both Optimal Control and Search-based Planning are used extensively for path planning and have their own set of advantages and disadvantages. In this paper, we propose an algorithm FOCS (Fusion of Optimal Control and Search) that combines these two classes of approaches together. FOCS finds a path exploiting the advantages of both approaches while providing a bound on the sub-optimality of its solution. The returned path is a concatenation of the path found in the implicit graph constructed by search and the path generated by following the negative gradient of the value function obtained as a solution of the Hamilton-Jacobi-Bellman equation. We analyze the algorithm and illustrate its effectiveness in finding a minimum-time path for a car-like vehicle in different environments.


Title: Quotient-Space Motion Planning
Key Words: mobile robots  motion control  path planning  quotient-space motion planning  OMPL  robot  Quotient-space roadMap Planner  roadmap-based motion planning algorithm  nested quotient-space decomposition  open motion planning library  Planning  Manipulators  Runtime  Visualization  Probabilistic logic  Manifolds 
Abstract: A motion planning algorithm computes the motion of a robot by computing a path through its configuration space. To improve the runtime of motion planning algorithms, we propose to nest robots in each other, creating a nested quotient-space decomposition of the configuration space. Based on this decomposition we define a new roadmap-based motion planning algorithm called the Quotient-space roadMap Planner (QMP). The algorithm starts growing a graph on the lowest dimensional quotient space, switches to the next quotient space once a valid path has been found, and keeps updating the graphs on each quotient space simultaneously until a valid path in the configuration space has been found. We show that this algorithm is probabilistically complete and outperforms a set of state-of-the-art algorithms implemented in the open motion planning library (OMPL).


Title: Automatic Parameter Tuning of Motion Planning Algorithms
Key Words: Bayes methods  manipulators  mobile robots  motion control  optimisation  path planning  sampling methods  random sampling  AUC-Bandit  random forest  motion planning algorithms  RRT-connect  table-top-reaching scenario  BKPIECE  random scenarios  parameter configurations  automatic parameter tuning  motion planning  default parameter values  Bayesian optimisation  KUKA LWR robotic arm  Planning  Tuning  Optimization  Bayes methods  Manipulators  Mathematical model 
Abstract: Motion planning algorithms attempt to find a good compromise between planning time and quality of solution. Due to their heuristic nature, they are typically configured with several parameters. In this paper we demonstrate that, in many scenarios, the widely used default parameter values are not ideal. However, finding the best parameters to optimise some metric(s) is not trivial because the size of the parameter space can be large. We evaluate and compare the efficiency of four different methods (i.e. random sampling, AUC-Bandit, random forest, and bayesian optimisation) to tune the parameters of two motion planning algorithms, BKPIECE and RRT-connect. We present a table-top-reaching scenario where the seven degrees-of-freedom KUKA LWR robotic arm has to move from an initial to a goal pose in the presence of several objects in the environment. We show that the best methods for BKPIECE (AUC-Bandit) and RRT-Connect (random forest) improve the performance by 4.5x and 1.26x on average respectively. Then, we generate a set of random scenarios of increasing complexity, and we observe that optimal parameters found in simple environments perform well in more complex scenarios. Finally, we find that the time required to evaluate parameter configurations can be reduced by more than 2/3 with low error. Overall, our results demonstrate that for a variety of motion planning problems it is possible to find solutions that significantly improve the performance over default configurations while requiring very reasonable computation times.


Title: Perception-Driven Sparse Graphs for Optimal Motion Planning
Key Words: collision avoidance  graph theory  mobile robots  optimal control  optimisation  robot vision  trajectory control  motion plan generation  planning subproblem  mapping subproblem  optimal motion planning  perception-driven sparse graphs  optimal trajectory  plan graphs  visual sensors  Planning  Trajectory  Robot sensing systems  Collision avoidance  Heuristic algorithms 
Abstract: Most existing motion planning algorithms assume that a map (of some quality) is fully determined prior to generating a motion plan. In many emerging applications of robotics, e.g., fast-moving agile aerial robots with constrained embedded computational platforms and visual sensors, dense maps of the world are not immediately available, and they are computationally expensive to construct. We propose a new algorithm for generating plan graphs which couples the perception and motion planning processes for computational efficiency. In a nutshell, the proposed algorithm iteratively switches between the planning sub-problem and the mapping sub-problem, each updating based on the other until a valid trajectory is found. The resulting trajectory retains a provable property of providing an optimal trajectory with respect to the full (unmapped) environment, while utilizing only a fraction of the sensing data in computational experiments.


Title: Socially-Aware Navigation Using Non-Linear Multi-Objective Optimization
Key Words: human-robot interaction  iterative methods  learning (artificial intelligence)  mobile robots  Pareto optimisation  path planning  nonlinear multiobjective optimization  socially assistive robots  complex environments  stochastic human environments  subtle social norms  socially-aware navigation  multiobjective optimization tool  PaC-cET  nonlinear human navigation behavior  autonomously-sensed distance-based features  social costs  finely-tuned linear combination  optimized future trajectory point  PaCcET-based trajectory planner  human-robot interaction community  Pareto concavity elimination transformation  model-based approaches  Navigation  Trajectory  Optimization  Robot sensing systems  Reinforcement learning 
Abstract: For socially assistive robots (SAR)to be accepted into complex and stochastic human environments, it is important to account for subtle social norms. In this paper, we propose a novel approach to socially-aware navigation (SAN)which garnered an immense interest in the Human-Robot Interaction (HRI)community. We use a multi-objective optimization tool called the Pareto Concavity Elimination Transformation (PaC-cET)to capture the non-linear human navigation behavior, a novel contribution to the community. A candidate point on a trajectory is scored (1)for its progress towards the goal, and (2)based on autonomously-sensed distance-based features that capture the social norms and associated social costs. Rather than use a finely-tuned linear combination of these costs, we use PaCcET to select an optimized future trajectory point, associated with a non-linear combination of the costs. Existing research in this domain concentrates on geometric reasoning, model-based, and learning approaches, which have their own pros and cons. This approach is distinct from prior work in this area. We showed in a simulation that the PaCcET-based trajectory planner not only is able to avoid collisions and reach the intended destination in static and dynamic environments but also considers a human's personal space i.e. rules of proxemics in the trajectory selection process.


Title: Constrained Path Planning Using Quadratic Programming
Key Words: iterative methods  manipulator kinematics  path planning  quadratic programming  kinematic loops  local motions  iterative scheme  geometric loop-closure  CS  lower-dimensional manifold  contact forces  quadratic optimization  quadratic programming  constrained configuration space  constrained path planning  sampling-based planning algorithms  Manifolds  Jacobian matrices  Optimization  Planning  End effectors  Interpolation 
Abstract: Sampling-based planning algorithms have been extensively exploited to solve a wide variety of problems. In recent years, many efforts have been dedicated to extend these tools to solve problems involving constraints, such as geometric loop-closure, which lead the valid Configuration Space (CS) to collapse to a lower-dimensional manifold. One proposed solution considers an approximation of the constrained Configuration Space that is obtained by relaxing constraints up to a desired tolerance. The resulting set has then non-zero measure, allowing to exploit classical planning algorithms to search for a path connecting two given states. When constraints involve kinematic loops in the system, relaxation generally bears to undesired contact forces, which need to be compensated during execution by a proper control action. We propose a new tool that exploits relaxation to plan in presence of constraints. Local motions inside the approximated manifold are found as the result of an iterative scheme that uses Quadratic Optimization to proceed towards a new sample without falling outside the relaxed region. By properly guiding the exploration, paths are found with smaller relaxation factors and the need of a dedicated controller to compensate errors is reduced. We complete the analysis by showing the feasibility of the approach with experiments on a real platform.


Title: Robot Approaching and Engaging People in a Human-Robot Companion Framework
Key Words: gradient methods  human-robot interaction  path planning  encounter point  human-robot group  user study  ESFM  extended social force model  dynamic environment  navigation behaviour  human-robot companion framework  gradient descent method  Robots  Force  Task analysis  Dynamics  Measurement  Collision avoidance  Navigation 
Abstract: This paper presents a new model to make robots capable of approaching and engaging people with a human-like behavior, while they are walking in a side-by-side formation with a person. This method extends our previous work [1], which allows the robot to adapt its navigation behaviour according to the person being accompanied and the dynamic environment. In the current work, the robot is able to predict the best encounter point between the human-robot group and the approached person. Then, in the encounter point the robot modifies its position to achieve an engagement with both people. The encounter point is computed using a gradient descent method that takes into account all people predictions. Moreover, we make use of the Extended Social Force Model (ESFM), and it is modified to include the dynamic goal. The method has been validated over several situations and in real-life experiments, in addition, a user study has been realized to reveal the social acceptability of the robot in this task.


Title: Planning Topological Navigation for Complex Indoor Environments
Key Words: humanoid robots  mobile robots  multi-robot systems  planning (artificial intelligence)  artificial intelligence planning  topological navigation planning  symbolic representation  European Robotics League  humanoid robot Pepper  high level acting  high level reasoning  mobile robot  complex indoor environments  Navigation  Planning  Task analysis  Measurement  Robot kinematics  Indoor environments 
Abstract: The ability to move around the environment is one of the most important capabilities of a mobile robot. Although navigation is considered an already achieved capacity, there is still much work to be done to integrate navigation with high level reasoning and acting. Navigate in indoor environments also involve complex actions, such as opening doors, use elevators, and many others. We propose a topological navigation system based on Artificial Intelligence (AI) Planning. Starting from a symbolic representation of the environment, navigation tasks are divided into phases, in which different actions are required. This approach has demonstrated to be very effective to plan the operations of a robot at indoor environments. The final result is method compact, efficient and scalable. Our system has been successfully tested at European Robotics League in the humanoid robot Pepper.


Title: vTSL - A Formally Verifiable DSL for Specifying Robot Tasks
Key Words: constraint handling  control engineering computing  formal specification  formal verification  learning (artificial intelligence)  mobile robots  robot programming  specification languages  vTSL  formally verifiable DSL  robot tasks  preprogramming  automated planning  symbolic learning  robotic application  user-defined tasks  integrity constraints  robotic platform  verifiable task specification language  task-specific constraints  robotic systems  Task analysis  DSL  Semantics  Planning  Loading  Robot sensing systems 
Abstract: Preprogramming of tasks still plays an important role in complex robotic systems despite the advances in automated planning and symbolic learning. Often, it is desired that end-users implement further tasks to adapt the robotic application to their needs. These user-defined tasks have to meet safety and integrity constraints for protecting the robotic platform and its users. We introduce a verifiable task specification language (vTSL) that enables to automatically prove that a task specification satisfies a set of predefined or task-specific constraints. We illustrate our approach using an example of a self-driving vehicle for intra-logistics and report experiences with two commercial applications.


Title: GPU-Accelerated Next-Best-View Coverage of Articulated Scenes
Key Words: embedded systems  graphics processing units  mobile robots  path planning  rendering (computer graphics)  robot vision  costmap computation  path planning  simulation  viewpoint candidates  multiple device classes  multiGPU servers  utility map  robots  complex articulated scenes  GPU-accelerated next-best-view coverage  next-best-view algorithms  mapping tasks  articulated environments  obstructed areas  degrees of freedom  embedded devices  next-best-view approach  embedded systems  graphics processing units  OpenGL  Graphics processing units  Task analysis  Cameras  Robot sensing systems  Planning  Solid modeling 
Abstract: Next-best-view algorithms are commonly used for covering known scenes, for example in search, maintenance, and mapping tasks. In this paper, we consider the problem of planning a strategy for covering articulated environments where the robot also has to manipulate objects to inspect obstructed areas. This problem is particularly challenging due to the many degrees of freedom resulting from the articulation. We propose to exploit graphics processing units present in many embedded devices to parallelize the computations of a greedy next-best-view approach. We implemented algorithms for costmap computation, path planning, as well as simulation and evaluation of viewpoint candidates in OpenGL for Embedded Systems and benchmarked the implementations on multiple device classes ranging from smartphones to multi-GPU servers. We introduce a heuristic for estimating a utility map from images rendered with strategically placed spherical cameras and show in simulation experiments that robots can successfully explore complex articulated scenes with our system.


Title: An Optimization-Based Approach to Dual-Arm Motion Planning with Closed Kinematics
Key Words: collision avoidance  constraint handling  humanoid robots  manipulator kinematics  mobile robots  optimisation  probability  dual-arm motion planning  collision-free motions  dual-arm robot  kinematic constraints  closed kinematic chain  constrained problems  sampling-based planners  random sample  closure constraint  equality constraints  gripped object  optimization-based planning approach  probability  augmented Lagrangian method  constraints handling  RRT  CHOMP  TrajOpt  trajectory optimization approach  twelve degrees of freedom  Kinematics  Planning  Collision avoidance  Manipulators  Optimization  Trajectory 
Abstract: This paper addresses the optimization-based planning of collision-free motions for a dual-arm robot with kinematic constraints. Such problems arise, for example, when the robot has to move an object with both arms, whereby the two arms and the gripped object form a closed kinematic chain. Such constrained problems are hard to solve with sampling-based planners, because the probability that a random sample satisfies the closure constraint is practically zero. In contrast, the solution of optimization problems with equality constraints is a well-understood field of research. This paper formulates the motion planning task as optimization problem and proposes a numerical solution using the augmented Lagrangian method for handling constraints. The planner is compared to RRTs, CHOMP and TrajOpt on a set of randomly generated problems for a dual-arm robot with twelve degrees of freedom highlighting the advantages of optimization-based planning.


Title: Smooth Point-to-Point Trajectory Planning in $SE$ (3)with Self-Collision and Joint Constraints Avoidance
Key Words: collision avoidance  end effectors  manipulator dynamics  manipulator kinematics  smooth point-to-point trajectory planning  joint constraints avoidance  serial robotic structures  time-optimal SE(3) trajectory  robot end-effector  4th order dynamics flexible joint robots  self-collision avoidance  point-to-point trajectory planner  Trajectory  End effectors  Interpolation  Planning  Collision avoidance 
Abstract: In this paper we introduce a novel point-to-point trajectory planner for serial robotic structures that combines the ability to avoid self-collisions and to respect motion constraints, while complying with the requirement of being C4 continuous. The latter property makes our approach also suited for 4th order dynamics flexible joint robots, which gained significant practical relevance recently. In particular, we address the problem of generating a smooth, kinematically nearly time-optimal SE(3) trajectory while simultaneously avoiding potential collisions of the robot end-effector with its base as well as respecting the Cartesian unreachable states induced by the joint limits of the proximal kinematic structure.


Title: Collision-Free Path Planning of Dual-Manipulator System Based on Energy Conversion
Key Words: collision avoidance  elasticity  manipulators  mobile robots  path planning  springs (mechanical)  dual-manipulator moves  original paths  ends-fixed elastic ropes  manipulators  initial paths  elastic potential energy  manipulator bodies  virtual spring  energy perspective  dual-manipulator path-planning problem  energy conversion  dual-manipulator system  collision-free path planning  Manipulators  Path planning  Springs  Potential energy  Mobile robots 
Abstract: This paper is a preliminary exploration of how to solve the dual-manipulator path-planning problem from an energy perspective. A virtual spring is set up between the two manipulator bodies and becomes compressed as they move into the area of danger, thus producing elastic potential energy. The initial paths of the manipulators are modelled as two ends-fixed elastic ropes. The elastic potential energy stored in the virtual spring is distributed between the two elastic ropes in a certain proportion so as to deform them. In this way, the original paths of the two manipulators will deviate toward the direction of their respective bases thereby avoiding any collision crisis that may potentially occur. When the dual-manipulator moves away from the danger area, the elastic potential energy caused by the deviation of the elastic ropes will be converted back into energy stored by the virtual spring, such that the elastic ropes revert to their original state and drive the manipulators back to their initial paths. Simple but representative simulations are established and results of the simulations show the reliability of our proposed method.


Title: CROC: Convex Resolution of Centroidal Dynamics Trajectories to Provide a Feasibility Criterion for the Multi Contact Planning Problem
Key Words: approximation theory  computational geometry  legged locomotion  linear programming  motion control  path planning  sampling methods  trajectory control  CROC  feasibility criterion  multicontact planning problem  transition feasibility problem  legged robot  conservative reformulation  convex reformulation  Bezier curve  transition problem  sampling-based contact planner  motion generation methods  center of mass trajectory  convex resolution of centroidal dynamics trajectories  free control point  contact sequences  motion synthesis problems  linear program  Trajectory  Dynamics  Planning  Acceleration  Legged locomotion  Kinematics 
Abstract: We tackle the transition feasibility problem, that is the issue of determining whether there exists a feasible motion connecting two configurations of a legged robot. To achieve this we introduce CROC, a novel method for computing centroidal dynamics trajectories in multi-contact planning contexts. Our approach is based on a conservative and convex reformulation of the problem, where we represent the center of mass trajectory as a Bezier curve comprising a single free control point as a variable. Under this formulation, the transition problem is solved efficiently with a Linear Program (LP)of low dimension. We use this LP as a feasibility criterion, incorporated in a sampling-based contact planner, to discard efficiently unfeasible contact plans. We are thus able to produce robust contact sequences, likely to define feasible motion synthesis problems. We illustrate this application on various multi-contact scenarios featuring HRP2 and HyQ. We also show that we can use CROC to compute valuable initial guesses, used to warm-start non-linear solvers for motion generation methods. This method could also be used for the 0 and 1-Step capturability problem. The source code of CROC is available under an open source BSD-2 License.


Title: Attitude Estimation from Polarimetric Cameras
Key Words: attitude control  autonomous aerial vehicles  cameras  image sensors  mobile robots  path planning  robot vision  robotic applications  attitude estimation  polarimetric camera  path planning applications  visual systems  perspective cameras  depth cameras  catadioptric cameras  systems capture information  sky regions  visual cue  vision applications  sky information  polarimetric sensors  visual sensors  navigation applications  unmanned aerial vehicle  Cameras  Scattering  Robot vision systems  Sun  Estimation  Atmospheric modeling 
Abstract: In the robotic field, navigation and path planning applications benefit from a wide range of visual systems (e.g, perspective cameras, depth cameras, catadioptric cameras, etc.). In outdoor conditions, these systems capture information in which sky regions cover a major segment of the images acquired. However, sky regions are discarded and are not considered as visual cue in vision applications. In this paper, we propose to estimate attitude of Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV) from sky information using a polarimetric camera. Theoretically, we provide a framework estimating the attitude from the skylight polarized patterns. We showcase this formulation on both simulated and real-word data sets which proved the benefit of using polarimetric sensors along with other visual sensors in robotic applications.


Title: P-CAP: Pre-Computed Alternative Paths to Enable Aggressive Aerial Maneuvers in Cluttered Environments
Key Words: autonomous aerial vehicles  collision avoidance  data structures  graph theory  mobile robots  navigation  probability  search problems  p-CAP  pre-computed alternative paths  cluttered environments  fast autonomous flight  autonomous navigation  complex environment  continuous heuristic search  k-connected grid  probabilistic scheme  onboard sensors  prior map information  data structure  flight experiments  unstructured environments  aggressive aerial maneuvers  graph  forests-like environments  obstacles avoidance  Navigation  Sensors  Switches  Collision avoidance  Forestry  Gold  Planning 
Abstract: We propose a novel method to enable fast autonomous flight in cluttered environments. Typically, autonomous navigation through a complex environment requires a continuous heuristic search on a graph generated by a k-connected grid or a probabilistic scheme. As the vehicle progresses, modification of the graph with data from onboard sensors is expensive as is search on the graph, especially if the paths must be kino-dynamically feasible. We suggest that computation needed to find safe paths during fast flight can be greatly reduced if we precompute and carefully arrange a dense set of alternative paths before the flight. Any prior map information can be used to prune the alternative paths to come up with a data structure that enables very fast online computation to deal with obstacles that are not on the map but only detected by onboard sensors. To test this idea, we have conducted a large number of flight experiments in structured (large industrial facilities) and unstructured (forests-like) environments. We show that even in the most unstructured environments, this method enables flight at a speed up to 10m/s while avoiding obstacles detected from onboard sensors.


Title: Motion Planning for a Small Aerobatic Fixed-Wing Unmanned Aerial Vehicle
Key Words: aerospace components  aircraft control  autonomous aerial vehicles  collision avoidance  feedback  mobile robots  robot dynamics  trees (mathematics)  cruise-to-hover transition  hover-to-cruise transition  motion planner  motion planning  aerobatic fixed-wing  fixed-wing unmanned aerial vehicle  static obstacles  goal region  rapidly-exploring random trees algorithm  Aircraft  Trajectory  Libraries  Aerodynamics  Atmospheric modeling  Heuristic algorithms  Planning 
Abstract: A motion planner is developed for guiding a small aerobatic fixed-wing unmanned aerial vehicle to a desired goal region in a highly constrained, three-dimensional, known environment with static obstacles. The planner is based on the Rapidly-Exploring Random Trees (RRT) algorithm, and pieces together feasible trajectories from a library of motion primitives. Among other more conventional motion primitives, the library includes three extreme maneuvers: a cruise-to-hover transition, a hover-to-cruise transition, and an aggressive turn-around. The algorithm is efficient; it can be run in real-time to rapidly generate a plan starting from the aircraft's configuration at run-time. The motion planner is closely coupled to a feedback controller. Simulations using an aircraft dynamics model demonstrate the effectiveness of the system to guide and control the aircraft to a desired goal region. Preliminary flight test results are also presented.


Title: First Experimental Results on Motion Planning for Transportation in Aerial Long-Reach Manipulators with Two Arms
Key Words: autonomous aerial vehicles  collision avoidance  manipulators  mobile robots  search problems  transportation  aerial robotic system  RRT* algorithms  motion planning problem  dual arm  aerial platform  passive revolute joint  long-reach manipulation  long-bar extension  aerial long-reach manipulators  cluttered environment  transportation  Manipulators  Planning  Trajectory  Transportation  Bars  Task analysis 
Abstract: This paper presents the motion planning of a novel aerial robotic system with a long-bar extension and two arms for long-reach manipulation in cluttered environments. The novel aerial long-reach manipulator includes a passive revolute joint between the aerial platform and the dual arm. This feature minimises the torque induced to the aerial system in case of unexpected collisions of the manipulator. The motion planning problem is addressed considering jointly the complete set of configuration variables for the aerial platform and the dual arm. Furthermore, the planner has been built over the fundamentals of RRT* algorithms in order to optimise the performance of the trajectories in terms of energy and time. The proposed planning method has been experimentally validated in a realistic industrial scenario, the transportation of a long bar through a cluttered environment consisting of several pipe structures.


Title: Sparse 3D Topological Graphs for Micro-Aerial Vehicle Planning
Key Words: autonomous aerial vehicles  computational geometry  graph theory  image colour analysis  mobile robots  path planning  topology  Euclidean signed distance field  3D generalized Voronoi diagram  RGB-D sensing  global planning  skeleton diagram  topological information  noisy sensor data  sparse map representations  compact map representations  MAV  microaerial vehicle planning  sparse 3D topological graphs  Planning  Three-dimensional displays  Two dimensional displays  Skeleton  Robot sensing systems  Topology 
Abstract: Micro-Aerial Vehicles (MAVs) have the advantage of moving freely in 3D space. However, creating compact and sparse map representations that can be efficiently used for planning for such robots is still an open problem. In this paper, we take maps built from noisy sensor data and construct a sparse graph containing topological information that can be used for 3D planning. We use a Euclidean Signed Distance Field, extract a 3D Generalized Voronoi Diagram (GVD), and obtain a thin skeleton diagram representing the topological structure of the environment. We then convert this skeleton diagram into a sparse graph, which we show is resistant to noise and changes in resolution. We demonstrate global planning over this graph, and the orders of magnitude speed-up it offers over other common planning methods. We validate our planning algorithm in real maps built onboard an MAV, using RGB-D sensing.


Title: Motion Planning for a UAV with a Straight or Kinked Tether
Key Words: aircraft control  autonomous aerial vehicles  collision avoidance  mobile robots  motion control  multi-robot systems  robot vision  confined environment  cluttered environment  tethered aerial vehicles  tethered agent  nonfree space  motion planning frameworks  motion planning strategies  motion planning algorithms  UAV  robotic locomotion  reachable configuration space  marsupial heterogeneous robotic teams  Fotokite Pro  Planning  Visualization  Casting  Cameras  Robot sensing systems  Unmanned aerial vehicles 
Abstract: This paper develops and compares two motion planning algorithms for a tethered UAV with and without the possibility of the tether contacting the confined and cluttered environment. Tethered aerial vehicles have been studied due to their advantages such as power duration, stability, and safety. However, the disadvantages brought in by the extra tether have not been well investigated by the robotic locomotion community, especially when the tethered agent is locomoting in a non-free space occupied with obstacles. In this work, we propose two motion planning frameworks that (1) reduce the reachable configuration space by taking into account the tether and (2) deliberately plan (and relax) the contact point(s) of the tether with the environment and enable an equivalent reachable configuration space as the non-tethered counterpart would have. Both methods are tested on a physical robot, Fotokite Pro. With our approaches, tethered aerial vehicles could find their applications in confined and cluttered environments with obstacles as opposed to ideal free space, while still maintaining the advantages from the usage of a tether. The motion planning strategies are particularly suitable for marsupial heterogeneous robotic teams, such as visual servoing/assisting for another mobile, tele-operated primary robot.


Title: Persistent Monitoring with Refueling on a Terrain Using a Team of Aerial and Ground Robots
Key Words: aerospace robotics  integer programming  linear programming  multi-robot systems  path planning  tree searching  terrain  persistent monitoring  heterogeneous team  aerial robots  ground robots  MILP formulation  branch-and-cut framework  separation algorithm  Fuels  Monitoring  Unmanned aerial vehicles  Routing  Robot sensing systems  Kernel 
Abstract: There are many applications such as surveillance and mapping that require persistent monitoring of terrains. In this work, we consider a heterogeneous team of aerial and ground robots that are tasked with monitoring a terrain along a given path. Both types of robots are equipped with cameras that can monitor the terrain within their fields-of-view. We also consider the ability of the aerial robots to land occasionally on the terrain to recharge. The objective is to find a path for all the robots to reduce the time required. Determining optimal routes for the robots is a challenging problem because of constrained visibility due to the terrain and fuel limitations of the robots. We devise an MILP formulation for the problem using a 1.5 dimensional representation model. A branch-and-cut framework is used to implement the MILP and involves the design of a separation algorithm to compute valid inequalities. We report results from extensive simulations and proof-of-concept field experiments to show the efficacy of our approach.


Title: A Mobility Model Based on Improved Artificial Potential Fields for Swarms of UAVs
Key Words: autonomous aerial vehicles  collision avoidance  mobile robots  path planning  remotely operated vehicles  information sharing  path planning  obstacles avoidance  mobility model  swarms  UAV  involved UAVs collaborate  mobility strategies  autonomous UAVs  collaborative tasks  multiple platforms  artificial potential fields principle  APF principle  Path planning  Sensors  Adaptation models  Collaboration  Task analysis  Laser radar  Collision avoidance 
Abstract: A combination of several autonomous UAVs can be used to perform collaborative tasks. Such a combination is referred to as a swarm of drones. The use of multiple platforms can extend the system global capacities thanks to the resulting variety of embedded sensors and to information sharing. In this case, path planning and thus obstacles avoidance is still a major task. To deal with this issue, mobility models have to be implemented. Our contribution presented in this paper is a mobility model for swarms of UAVs based on the Artificial Potential Fields (APF) principle. In our model, the involved UAVs collaborate by sharing data about the obstacles that they detected. By doing so, a UAV which is not close enough to an obstacle to detect it thanks to its own sensors will still have the proper data to take this obstacle into account in its path planning. To validate our mobility strategies with realistic constraints we simulate the performances of existing sensors and transmitters, and consider real-world environment.


Title: An Improved Formulation for Model Predictive Control of Legged Robots for Gait Planning and Feedback Control
Key Words: feedback  legged locomotion  numerical stability  pendulums  predictive control  robot dynamics  robust control  gait planning  feedback control  MPC scheme  long prediction horizons  low dimensional models  model predictive control scheme  numerical stability  linear inverted pendulum model  LIPM  legged robots dynamics  external disturbance  robustness  Optimization  Legged locomotion  Numerical models  Acceleration  Planning  Numerical stability 
Abstract: Predictive control methods for walking commonly use low dimensional models, such as a Linear Inverted Pendulum Model (LIPM), for simplifying the complex dynamics of legged robots. This paper identifies the physical limitations of the modeling methods that do not account for external disturbances, and then analyzes the issues of numerical stability of Model Predictive Control (MPC)using different models with variable receding horizons. We propose a new modeling formulation that can be used for both gait planning and feedback control in an MPC scheme. The advantages are the improved numerical stability for long prediction horizons and the robustness against various disturbances. Benchmarks were rigorously studied to compare the proposed MPC scheme with the existing ones in terms of numerical stability and disturbance rejection. The effectiveness of the controller is demonstrated in both MATLAB and Gazebo simulations.


Title: A Control Architecture with Online Predictive Planning for Position and Torque Controlled Walking of Humanoid Robots
Key Words: gait analysis  humanoid robots  legged locomotion  path planning  position control  predictive control  robot kinematics  torque control  inverse kinematics algorithm  iCub  center of mass trajectory  table-cart model  predictive controller  footstep positions  robot kinematic model  control loops  layered control architecture  humanoid robots  torque controlled walking  online predictive planning  stack-of-task QP-based torque controller  position controlled walking  Legged locomotion  Trajectory  Computer architecture  Mathematical model  Humanoid robots  Robot kinematics 
Abstract: A common approach to the generation of walking patterns for humanoid robots consists in adopting a layered control architecture. This paper proposes an architecture composed of three nested control loops. The outer loop exploits a robot kinematic model to plan the footstep positions. In the mid layer, a predictive controller generates a Center of Mass trajectory according to the well-known table-cart model. Through a whole-body inverse kinematics algorithm, we can define joint references for position controlled walking. The outcomes of these two loops are then interpreted as inputs of a stack-of-task QP-based torque controller, which represents the inner loop of the presented control architecture. This resulting architecture allows the robot to walk also in torque control, guaranteeing higher level of compliance. Real world experiments have been carried on the humanoid robot iCub.


Title: Virtual Borders: Accurate Definition of a Mobile Robot's Workspace Using Augmented Reality
Key Words: augmented reality  human-robot interaction  mobile robots  navigation  path planning  service robots  mobile robot  human-aware navigation  nonexpert users  vacuum cleaning  human-robot interface  augmented reality application  teaching time  baseline methods  user-defined virtual borders  Education  Navigation  Robot kinematics  Visualization  Robot sensing systems  Mobile robots 
Abstract: We address the problem of interactively controlling the workspace of a mobile robot to ensure a human-aware navigation. This is especially of relevance for non-expert users living in human-robot shared spaces, e.g. home environments, since they want to keep the control of their mobile robots, such as vacuum cleaning or companion robots. Therefore, we introduce virtual borders that are respected by a robot while performing its tasks. For this purpose, we employ a RGB-D Google Tango tablet as human-robot interface in combination with an augmented reality application to flexibly define virtual borders. We evaluated our system with 15 non-expert users concerning accuracy, teaching time and correctness and compared the results with other baseline methods based on visual markers and a laser pointer. The experimental results show that our method features an equally high accuracy while reducing the teaching time significantly compared to the baseline methods. This holds for different border lengths, shapes and variations in the teaching process. Finally, we demonstrated the correctness of the approach, i.e. the mobile robot changes its navigational behavior according to the user-defined virtual borders.


Title: A Transient-Goal Driven Communication-Aware Navigation Strategy for Large Human-Populated Environments
Key Words: decision making  Gaussian processes  indoor navigation  mobile robots  path planning  signal processing  wireless sensor networks  social robot navigation  networked service  wireless networks  Gaussian Process  robotic wheelchair operation  sub-optimal path  communication-aware planning constraints  connectivity issues  human-populated indoor environments  transient-goal driven communication-aware navigation strategy  human-aware planning constraints  radio signal strength constraints  decision making capabilities  shopping mall  Robot sensing systems  Navigation  Transient analysis  Mobile robots  Fading channels  Wireless communication 
Abstract: Robots deployed in large human-populated indoor environments such as shopping malls, airports etc., inadvertently communicate via wireless networks for enhanced perception and decision making capabilities. Owing to highly dynamic signal attenuation characteristics in such environments, connectivity issues may arise during robotic navigation, leading to disruption in information flow causing potential danger. Exact modeling of signal propagation for estimating spatial signal variation is usually challenging. Moreover, the presence of dynamic humans also add a layer of temporal signal variation complexities. Thus, this paper introduces a generative approach for embedding radio signal strength constraints within networked service/social robot navigation in large human-populated environments. Initially, we propose a Gaussian Process based online spatio-temporal signal strength prediction model that, as opposed to the current state of the art, also aims to take into account the temporal fading arising due to the presence of human crowds. We then devise a transient-goal driven navigation strategy to realize a sub-optimal path towards a goal, that is aimed at resolving both communication-aware and human-aware planning constraints. Evaluations of the proposed signal prediction model demonstrate the advantages of our approach with respect to the current state of the art. The efficacy of the navigation strategy in also demonstrated simulations and using hardware experiments conducted on a robotic wheelchair operating in a large shopping mall.


Title: Incorporating Kinematic Properties into Fused Deposition Toolpath Optimization
Key Words: layered manufacturing  optimisation  production engineering computing  rapid prototyping (industrial)  solid modelling  three-dimensional printing  fused deposition toolpath optimization  toolpath planning  fused deposition 3D printing slice  slicing-based methods  wasted motion  extruder  prints local features  local search  3D printing process  accurate kinematic model  real-world fabrication time  toolpath optimization algorithm  real-world improvement  model characterization  2D layers  toolpaths  Printers  Motion segmentation  Kinematics  Fabrication  Acceleration  Optimization  Planning 
Abstract: The most widely used methods for toolpath planning in fused deposition 3D printing slice the input model into successive 2D layers in order to construct the toolpath. Unfortunately slicing-based methods can incur a substantial amount of wasted motion (i.e., the extruder is moving while not printing), particularly when features of the model are spatially separated. In recent work we have introduced a new paradigm that constructs the toolpath in 3D and prints local features to minimize wasted motion. Our algorithm is based on a local search and we have demonstrated substantial improvements in the efficiency of the resulting toolpaths. Our approach is amenable to incorporating physical constraints of the 3D printing process, and, in this paper we extend our approach to incorporate kinematic properties into toolpath optimization. With an accurate kinematic model of the extruder, our algorithm is able to model the real-world fabrication time of the model with a high degree of accuracy. To our knowledge, this toolpath optimization algorithm is the first to encode real-world fabrication time as the objective function. We demonstrate the real-world improvement in fabrication time that is possible with our algorithm on a benchmark of almost 600 models. We find improvement in nearly every toolpath generated for our benchmark set (with a mean of 3.2%), but substantially larger improvements for some models. To rationalize these results, we introduce a metric for model characterization that we call “oriented compactness” and show that it correlates positively with our observations. We believe this metric can be an important tool in the setup of fabrication (e.g., by guiding an orientation search of the model).


Title: Map-based Deep Imitation Learning for Obstacle Avoidance
Key Words: collision avoidance  decision making  inference mechanisms  learning (artificial intelligence)  mobile robots  optimisation  robot vision  SLAM (robots)  mobile robots  deep imitation learning algorithm  egocentric local occupancy maps  fast feed-forward inferences  policy robustness  optimal decision making  obstacle avoidance policy  map-based deep imitation learning  value iteration networks  near-optimal continuous action commands  planning-based scenarios  Collision avoidance  Robot kinematics  Mobile robots  Training  Neural networks  Trajectory 
Abstract: Making an optimal decision to avoid obstacles while heading to the goal is one of the fundamental challenges for mobile robots equipped with limited computational resources. In this paper, we present a deep imitation learning algorithm that develops a computationally efficient obstacle avoidance policy based on egocentric local occupancy maps. The trained model embedded with a variant of the value iteration networks is able to provide near-optimal continuous action commands through fast feed-forward inferences and generalize well to unseen planning-based scenarios. To improve the policy robustness, we augment the training data set with artificially generated maps, which effectively alleviates the shortage of catastrophic samples in normal demonstrations. Extensive experiments on a Segway robot show the effectiveness of the proposed approach in terms of solution optimality, robustness as well as computation time.


Title: Wireframe Mapping for Resource-Constrained Robots
Key Words: mobile robots  path planning  simulation mapping  wireframe mapping  resource-constrained robots  wireframe representation  particle filter  sparse wireframe map structure  map representation  wireframe structure  occupancy grid map  discrete map errors  Simultaneous localization and mapping  Uncertainty  Two dimensional displays  Geometry  Navigation 
Abstract: This paper presents a novel wireframe map structure for resource-constrained robots operating in a rectilinear 2D environment. The wireframe representation compactly represents geometry, in addition to transient situations such as occlusions and boundaries of unexplored regions. We formulate a particle filter to suit this sparse wireframe map structure. Functions for calculating the likelihood of scans, merging wireframes, and resampling are developed to accommodate this map representation. The wireframe structure with the particle filter allows for severe discrete map errors to be corrected, leading to accurate maps with small storage requirements. We show in a simulation study that the algorithm attains a map of an environment with 1 % error, compared to an occupancy grid map obtained with GMapping which attained 23% error with the same storage requirements. A simulation mapping a large environment demonstrates the algorithms scalability.


Title: Improving Trajectory Optimization Using a Roadmap Framework
Key Words: mobile robots  optimisation  path planning  sampling methods  trajectory control  trajectory optimization process  sampling-based planners  motion planning system  multiquery roadmap  sparse roadmap framework  optimization-based motion planners  Planning  Trajectory optimization  Robots  Dynamics  Task analysis  Collision avoidance 
Abstract: We present an evaluation of several representative sampling-based and optimization-based motion planners, and then introduce an integrated motion planning system which incorporates recent advances in trajectory optimization into a sparse roadmap framework. Through experiments in 4 common application scenarios with 5000 test cases each, we show that optimization-based or sampling-based planners alone are not effective for realistic problems where fast planning times are required. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first work that presents such a systematic and comprehensive evaluation of state-of-the-art motion planners, which are based on a significant amount of experiments. We then combine different stand-alone planners with trajectory optimization. The results show that the combination of our sparse roadmap and trajectory optimization provides superior performance over other standard sampling-based planners' combinations. By using a multi-query roadmap instead of generating completely new trajectories for each planning problem, our approach allows for extensions such as persistent control policy information associated with a trajectory across planning problems. Also, the sub-optimality resulting from the sparsity of roadmap, as well as the unexpected disturbances from the environment, can both be overcome by the real-time trajectory optimization process.


Title: Continuous State-Action-Observation POMDPs for Trajectory Planning with Bayesian Optimisation
Key Words: belief networks  decision making  decision theory  Hilbert spaces  Markov processes  mobile robots  optimisation  path planning  trees (mathematics)  trajectory planning  POMDP solvers  CBTS  dynamic sampling  robot parking problems  bayesian optimisation  partially observable Markov decision process  reproducing kernel Hilbert spaces  kCBTS  continuous belief tree search  RKHS  Trajectory  Planning  Robots  Optimization  Kernel  Bayes methods  Mathematical model 
Abstract: Decision making under uncertainty is a challenging task, especially when dealing with complex robotics scenarios. The Partially Observable Markov Decision Process (POMDP) framework, designed to solve this problem, was subject to much work lately. Most POMDP solvers, however, focus on planning in discrete state, action and/or observations spaces, which does not truly reflect the complexity of most real world problems. This paper addresses the issue by devising a method for solving POMDPs with continuous state, action and observations spaces. The proposed planner, Continuous Belief Tree Search (CBTS), uses Bayesian Optimisation (BO) to dynamically sample promising actions while constructing a belief tree. This dynamic sampling allows for richer action selection than offline action discretisation. CBTS is complemented by a novel trajectory generation technique, relying on the theory of Reproducing Kernel Hilbert Spaces (RKHS), yielding trajectories amenable for robotics applications. The resulting trajectory planner kCBTS outperforms other continuous planners on space modelling and robot parking problems.


