total paper: 256
Title: Weighted Total Least Squares based Online Calibration Method for RSS based Localization
Key Words: calibration  distance measurement  error compensation  least squares approximations  regression analysis  linear regression model  partial input elements  weighted total least squares techniques  WTLS techniques  received signal strength based localization algorithm  RSS-to-distance based localization algorithm  improved online model-based calibration approach  distance estimation  error compensation  Calibration  Linear regression  Estimation  Shadow mapping  Measurement uncertainty  Taylor series  Convergence 
Abstract: In the received signal strength (RSS) based localization, a model-based calibration approach has been usually done by relating RSS-to-distance among anchor nodes. In this paper, an improved calibration method is proposed. For that purpose, RSS and estimated distance between any pairs of an-chor/unknown nodes is considered under the linear regression model. Unfortunately in this model, partial input elements are erroneous due to the inaccurate localization of unknown nodes. To obtain its solution under consideration of such an error, the weighted total least squares (WTLS) techniques are employed here. With the help of the WTLS techniques, several errors involved in the model can be effectively compensated. To show the efficiency of the proposed calibration, it is combined with several localization algorithms and its performance is verified by various simulations. The results show that the proposed calibration can give a very similar localization performance to that of each localization algorithm when true model parameters are known.


Title: LIPS: LiDAR-Inertial 3D Plane SLAM
Key Words: graph theory  image representation  mobile robots  optical radar  optimisation  robot vision  SLAM (robots)  inertial preintegratation measurement  LiDAR-inertial 3D plane SLAM  simultaneous localization and mapping  singularity free plane factor  closest point plane representation  Simultaneous localization and mapping  Three-dimensional displays  Laser radar  Optimization  Lips 
Abstract: This paper presents the formalization of the closest point plane representation and an analysis of its incorporation in 3D indoor simultaneous localization and mapping (SLAM). We present a singularity free plane factor leveraging the closest point plane representation, and demonstrate its fusion with inertial preintegratation measurements in a graph-based optimization framework. The resulting LiDAR-inertial 3D plane SLAM (LIPS) system is validated both on a custom made LiDAR simulator and on a real-world experiment.


Title: Fast Kinodynamic Bipedal Locomotion Planning with Moving Obstacles
Key Words: collision avoidance  humanoid robots  legged locomotion  motion control  pendulums  robot dynamics  robot kinematics  wheels  moving obstacles  bipedal robot  complex environments  footstep planning algorithms  footstep locations  biped dynamics  temporal duration  dynamically consistent description  PSP  collision-free route  nonholonomic wheeled robots  kinematic constraints  bipedal motion  body dynamic walking behavior  3D physics-based simulation  linear inverted pendulum model dynamics  dynamic constraints  kinodynamic bipedal locomotion planning  sampling-based kino-dynamic planning  LIPM  phase space planner  steering method  Planning  Heuristic algorithms  Robot kinematics  Legged locomotion  Collision avoidance 
Abstract: In this paper, we present a sampling-based kino-dynamic planning framework for a bipedal robot in complex environments. Unlike other footstep planning algorithms which typically plan footstep locations and the biped dynamics in separate steps, we handle both simultaneously. Three primary advantages of this approach are (1) the ability to differentiate alternate routes while selecting footstep locations based on the temporal duration of the route as determined by the Linear Inverted Pendulum Model (LIPM) dynamics, (2) the ability to perform collision checking through time so that collisions with moving obstacles are prevented without avoiding their entire trajectory, and (3) the ability to specify a minimum forward velocity for the biped. To generate a dynamically consistent description of the walking behavior, we exploit the Phase Space Planner (PSP) [1] [2]. To plan a collision-free route toward the goal, we adapt planning strategies from non-holonomic wheeled robots to gather a sequence of inputs for the PSP. This allows us to efficiently approximate dynamic and kinematic constraints on bipedal motion, to apply a sampling-based planning algorithm such as RRT or RRT*, and to use the Dubin's path [3] as the steering method to connect two points in the configuration space. The results of the algorithm are sent to a Whole Body Controller [1] to generate full body dynamic walking behavior. Our planning algorithm is tested in a 3D physics-based simulation of the humanoid robot Valkyrie.


Title: Timestamp Offset Calibration for an IMU-Camera System Under Interval Uncertainty
Key Words: calibration  cameras  data acquisition  inertial systems  measurement uncertainty  time measurement  orientation estimation determination  data acqusition  sensors  robotics applications  IMU-camera system  timestamp offset calibration  calibration data  bounded-error approach  interval uncertainty  time 20.0 ms  Cameras  Calibration  Uncertainty  Sensor fusion  Electron tubes  Sensor systems 
Abstract: To properly fuse IMU and camera information for robotics applications, the relative timestamp offset between both sensors' data streams has to be considered. However, finding the exact timestamp offset is often impossible. Thus, it is necessary to additionally consider the offset's uncertainty if we want to produce reliable results. In order to find the offset and its uncertainty, we determine orientation estimates from IMU and camera under interval uncertainty. Subsequently, these intervals are used as a common representation for our bounded-error approach that finds an interval enclosing the true offset while also modeling the uncertainty. Calibration data can be acquired in a few seconds using a simple setup of IMU, camera and camera target. Results using both simulated and real data demonstrate that we are able to determine the offset to an accuracy of 20 ms with a computation time that is suitable for future online applications. Here, our approach could be used to monitor the timestamp offset in a guaranteed way. Additionally, our method can be adapted to determine an interval for the rotation between both sensors. While this increases the computation time drastically, it also enhances the accuracy of the timestamp offset to less than 10 ms.


Title: Design and Development of Biaxial Active Nozzle with Flexible Flow Channel for Air Floating Active Scope Camera
Key Words: buckling  cameras  deformation  design engineering  jets  mobile robots  motion control  nozzles  pneumatic actuators  position control  service robots  shapes (structures)  flexible robot  shape deformation  air floating active scope camera  pneumatic actuators  geometric parameters  ASC  rescue operations  reaction force direction  flexible air tube  air jet direction  head motion  flexible flow channel  biaxial active nozzle  Electron tubes  Robots  Force  Shape  Cameras  Strain  Pneumatic systems 
Abstract: Long flexible continuum robots have a high potential for search and rescue operations that explore deep layered debris. A general problem of these robots is in the control of the head motion because their thin bodies limit the space available to mount multiple actuators. This paper develops a biaxial active nozzle which can rotate the air jet direction along a roll and pitch axis in order to control the direction of reaction force and the head motion of a long flexible robot. A major challenge is how to change the air jet direction without a large resistance to the flow, which reduces the reaction force induced by the air jet. We propose a nozzle whose outlet is connected with a flexible air tube. The direction of the air jet is controlled by the smooth shape deformation of the tube. The nozzle should be compact enough to be installed on a thin robot, although the shape deformation of the tube may cause buckling. The flexible tube is modeled and simulated by a multiple link model used to derive the geometric parameters of the nozzle so that the nozzle is compact and the tube does not buckle. Based on the derived parameters, the biaxial active nozzle was developed. A basic performance experiment shows that the nozzle can change the reaction force direction by deforming the tube shape, while the magnitude of the reaction force is almost constant. We integrated the proposed nozzle with a conventional Active Scope Camera (ASC). The range where the robot can look around in a vertical exploration was significantly improved, which was three times larger than the previous ASC whose head was controlled by pneumatic actuators. The rubble field test demonstrates that the integrated ASC could move over rubble (maximum height of 200 mm) and steer the course.


Title: Accounting for Directional Rigidity and Constraints in Control for Manipulation of Deformable Objects without Physical Simulation
Key Words: biomechanics  collision avoidance  deformation  finite element analysis  grippers  motion control  physiological models  shear modulus  springs (mechanical)  stress analysis  directional rigidity  deformable objects  physical simulation  physical models  control loop  practical controller  deformable object manipulation  effective controller  accurate geometric model  gripper motion  novel stretching avoidance constraint  physical robot  Grippers  Deformable models  Computational modeling  Robots  Predictive models  Finite element analysis  Adaptation models 
Abstract: Deformable objects like cloth and rope are challenging to manipulate because it is difficult to predict the state of the object given a motion of the gripper(s) holding it. In much previous work, physical models (such as Mass-Spring or Finite-Element) have been used to model such affects. However, these models often require significant parameter tuning for each scenario and can be expensive to simulate inside a control loop. Furthermore, it is difficult to create a practical controller for deformable object manipulation that preserves constraints, especially avoiding overstretching the object. In this paper, we developed a more effective controller than previous work by (1) constructing a more accurate geometric model of how the direction of gripper motion and obstacles affect deformable objects; and (2) specifying a novel stretching avoidance constraint to prevent the object from being overstretched by the robot. Experiments comparing our new method to the previous method in simulation and on a physical robot suggest that our new model captures the behavior of the object more accurately. We also find that our controller is able to prevent tearing that would occur when using the previous method.


Title: Generating Adaptive Attending Behaviors using User State Classification and Deep Reinforcement Learning
Key Words: behavioural sciences computing  gradient methods  learning (artificial intelligence)  mobile robots  pattern classification  deep deterministic policy gradient  user state classification  deep reinforcement learning  user information  adaptive attending behavior generation  DDPG  mobile robots  Legged locomotion  Reinforcement learning  Two dimensional displays  Cameras  Acceleration  Robot sensing systems 
Abstract: This paper describes a method of generating attending behaviors adaptively to the user state. The method classifies the user state based on user information such as the relative position and the orientation. For each classified state, the method executes the corresponding policy for behavior generation, which has been trained using a deep reinforcement learning, namely DDPG (deep deterministic policy gradient). We use as a state space of DDPG a distance-transformed local map with person information, and define reward functions suitable for respective user states. We conducted attending experiments both in a simulated and a real environment to show the effectiveness of the proposed method.


Title: A Bio-inspired Reinforcement Learning Rule to Optimise Dynamical Neural Networks for Robot Control
Key Words: humanoid robots  learning (artificial intelligence)  legged locomotion  motion control  neurocontrollers  recurrent neural nets  back-propagation  2D bipedal walking simulation  biological neural circuits  robot control  optimise dynamical neural networks  bio-inspired reinforcement  bio-inspired central pattern generator layer  recurrent neural network  learning rule  network weights  biological synapses  reinforcement learning approach  Neurons  Robots  Synapses  Oscillators  Task analysis  Biological neural networks 
Abstract: Most approaches for optimisation of neural networks are based on variants of back-propagation. This requires the network to be time invariant and differentiable; neural networks with dynamics are thus generally outside the scope of these methods. Biological neural circuits are highly dynamic yet clearly able to support learning. We propose a reinforcement learning approach inspired by the mechanisms and dynamics of biological synapses. The network weights undergo spontaneous fluctuations, and a reward signal modulates the centre and amplitude of fluctuations to converge to a desired network behaviour. We test the new learning rule on a 2D bipedal walking simulation, using a control system that combines a recurrent neural network, a bio-inspired central pattern generator layer and proportional-integral control, and demonstrate the first successful solution to this benchmark task.


Title: Virtual-to-Real-World Transfer Learning for Robots on Wilderness Trails
Key Words: control engineering computing  learning (artificial intelligence)  mobile robots  pattern classification  virtual-to-real-world transfer learning  deep learning models  virtual environments  model training  real-world trail data  robots  wilderness trails  outdoor trails  classification models  Cameras  Robot vision systems  Deep learning  Training  Navigation  Data collection 
Abstract: Robots hold promise in many scenarios involving outdoor use, such as search-and-rescue, wildlife management, and collecting data to improve environment, climate, and weather forecasting. However, autonomous navigation of outdoor trails remains a challenging problem. Recent work has sought to address this issue using deep learning. Although this approach has achieved state-of-the-art results, the deep learning paradigm may be limited due to a reliance on large amounts of annotated training data. Collecting and curating training datasets may not be feasible or practical in many situations, especially as trail conditions may change due to seasonal weather variations, storms, and natural erosion. In this paper, we explore an approach to address this issue through virtual-to-real-world transfer learning using a variety of deep learning models trained to classify the direction of a trail in an image. Our approach utilizes synthetic data gathered from virtual environments for model training, bypassing the need to collect a large amount of real images of the outdoors. We validate our approach in three main ways. First, we demonstrate that our models achieve classification accuracies upwards of 95% on our synthetic data set. Next, we utilize our classification models in the control system of a simulated robot to demonstrate feasibility. Finally, we evaluate our models on real-world trail data and demonstrate the potential of virtual-to-real-world transfer learning.


Title: Fire-Aware Planning of Aerial Trajectories and Ignitions
Key Words: aerospace computing  aerospace control  autonomous aerial vehicles  computer simulation  helicopters  ignition  path planning  trajectory control  wildfires  fire-aware planning  aerial trajectories  fire vectors  fire simulation  fire-aware planner  fire simulator predictions  ignition spheres  unmanned aerial system for prescribed fires  helicopter  UAS-Rx Android application  Ignition  Robots  Computational modeling  Planning  Sensors  Mathematical model  Trajectory 
Abstract: Prescribed fires can lessen wildfire severity and control invasive species, but they can also be risky and costly. Unmanned aerial systems can reduce those drawbacks by, for example, dropping ignition spheres to ignite the most hazardous areas. Existing systems, however, lack awareness of the fire vectors to operate autonomously, safely, and efficiently. In this work we address that limitation, introducing an approach that integrates a lightweight fire simulator and a planner for trajectories and ignition sphere drop waypoints. Both components are unique in that they are amenable to input from the system's sensors and the fire crew to increase fire awareness. We conducted a preliminary study that confirms that such inputs improve the accuracy of the fire simulation to counter the unpredictability of the target environment. The field study of the system showed that the fire-aware planner generated safe trajectories with effective ignitions leveraging the fire simulator predictions.


Title: Fractional-Order Trajectory-Following Control for Two-Legged Dynamic Walking
Key Words: control system synthesis  energy conservation  legged locomotion  motion control  PD control  position control  robot dynamics  simulated walker  two-legged dynamic walking  walking robots  energy consumption  energy efficiency  fractional-order trajectory-following control  proportional-derivative architecture  Legged locomotion  Mathematical model  Gravity  Aerodynamics  PD control  Trajectory 
Abstract: This research seeks greater efficiency for walking robots. Efficiency can be improved in two ways: better performance (i.e., less wasted motion) and reduced energy consumption. Fractional-order control is a pathway to both of these improvements because of the flexibility it offers in designing a control strategy. Compared to the existing proportional-derivative architecture, changing the order of the derivative - the number of derivatives taken - to real numbers other than 1 has yielded both types of improvement for a simulated walker. The evidence of better performance is the leg angles' improvement in maintaining a desired relationship with respect to one another. Depending on the controller chosen, the walker can also be made to achieve the original level of performance with reduced control signals and less torque delivered to the hip joint, implying greater energy efficiency.


Title: Adaptive step rotation in biped walking
Key Words: legged locomotion  predictive control  quadratic programming  adaptive step rotation  biped walking  fixed feet rotation  nonlinear solvers  safe linear constraints  model predictive control schemes  robot walking  sequential quadratic program  Legged locomotion  Foot  Collision avoidance  Robot kinematics  Dynamics  Predictive control 
Abstract: We want to enable the robot to reorient its feet in order to face its direction of motion. Model Predictive Control schemes for biped walking usually assume fixed feet rotation since adapting them online leads to a nonlinear problem. Nonlinear solvers do not guarantee the satisfaction of nonlinear constraints at every iterate and this can be problematic for the real-time operation of robots. We propose to define safe linear constraints that are always inside the intersection of the nonlinear constraints. We make simulations of the robot walking on a crowd and compare the performance of the proposed method with respect to the original nonlinear problem solved as a Sequential Quadratic Program.


Title: Towards Minimal Intervention Control with Competing Constraints
Key Words: control engineering computing  control system synthesis  learning (artificial intelligence)  linear quadratic control  optimal control  robot programming  trajectory control  task execution  trajectory constraints  information-theory  finite horizon linear quadratic regulator  Cartesian space  pure trajectory generation  imitation learning algorithms  simulated robot  robot null space  optimal control  minimal intervention control strategy  Aerospace electronics  Trajectory  Null space  Task analysis  Probabilistic logic  End effectors 
Abstract: As many imitation learning algorithms focus on pure trajectory generation in either Cartesian space or joint space, the problem of considering competing trajectory constraints from both spaces still presents several challenges. In particular, when perturbations are applied to the robot, the underlying controller should take into account the importance of each space for the task execution, and compute the control effort accordingly. However, no such controller formulation exists. In this paper, we provide a minimal intervention control strategy that simultaneously addresses the problems of optimal control and competing constraints between Cartesian and joint spaces. In light of the inconsistency between Cartesian and joint constraints, we exploit the robot null space from an information-theory perspective so as to reduce the corresponding conflict. An optimal solution to the aforementioned controller is derived and furthermore a connection to the classical finite horizon linear quadratic regulator (LQR) is provided. Finally, a writing task in a simulated robot verifies the effectiveness of our approach.


Title: Autonomous Localization, Navigation and Haustral Fold Detection for Robotic Endoscopy
Key Words: biological organs  biomedical optical imaging  cancer  endoscopes  medical image processing  medical robotics  surgery  autonomous localization  Haustral fold detection  robotic endoscopy  capsule endoscopes  minimally invasive devices  gastrointestinal abnormalities  colorectal cancer  real-time navigation system  observational devices  autonomous navigation  single minimally invasive device  vision system  autonomous lumen center tracking  haustral fold identification  multiple haustral folds  robotic endoscope platform  active simulator  real-time localization  center tracking algorithm  colonoscopy  in vivo video  surgical tools  mobility system  Endoscopes  Robot sensing systems  Colon  Navigation  Wheels  In vivo 
Abstract: Capsule endoscopes have gained popularity over the last decade as minimally invasive devices for diagnosing gastrointestinal abnormalities such as colorectal cancer. While this technology offers a less invasive and more convenient alternative to traditional scopes, these capsules are only able to provide observational capabilities due to their passive nature. With the addition of a reliable mobility system and a real-time navigation system, capsule endoscopes could transform from observational devices into active surgical tools, offering biopsy and therapeutic capabilities and even autonomous navigation in a single minimally invasive device. In this work, a vision system is developed to allow for autonomous lumen center tracking and haustral fold identification and tracking during colonoscopy. This system is tested for its ability to accurately identify and track multiple haustral folds across many frames in both simulated and in vivo video, and the lumen center tracking is tested onboard a robotic endoscope platform (REP) within an active simulator to demonstrate autonomous navigation. In addition, real-time localization is demonstrated using open source ORB-SLAM2. The vision system successfully identified 95.6% of Haustral folds in simulator frames and 70.6% in in vivo frames and false positives occurred in less than 1% of frames. The center tracking algorithm showed in vivo center estimates within a mean error of 6.6% of physician estimates and allowed for the REP to traverse 2 m of the active simulator in 6 minutes without intervention.


Title: Learning How Pedestrians Navigate: A Deep Inverse Reinforcement Learning Approach
Key Words: collision avoidance  feature extraction  human-robot interaction  learning (artificial intelligence)  mobile robots  navigation  neural nets  trajectory control  mobile robots  human robot interaction  robot navigation algorithms  human navigation behaviors  maximum entropy deep inverse reinforcement learning  nonlinear reward function  deep neural network approximation  social affinity map  human motion trajectories  learned reward function  natural social navigation behaviors  deep inverse reinforcement learning approach  pedestrian trajectories  MEDIRL algorithm  feature extraction  collision avoidance  pedestrians navigation  Navigation  Robots  Trajectory  Reinforcement learning  Collision avoidance  Neural networks  Entropy 
Abstract: Humans and mobile robots will be increasingly cohabiting in the same environments, which has lead to an increase in studies on human robot interaction (HRI). One important topic in these studies is the development of robot navigation algorithms that are socially compliant to humans navigating in the same space. In this paper, we present a method to learn human navigation behaviors using maximum entropy deep inverse reinforcement learning (MEDIRL). We use a large open dataset of pedestrian trajectories collected in an uncontrolled environment as the expert demonstrations. Human navigation behaviors are captured by a nonlinear reward function through deep neural network (DNN) approximation. The developed MEDIRL algorithm takes feature inputs including social affinity map (SAM) that are extracted from human motion trajectories. We perform simulation experiments using the learned reward function, and the performance is evaluated comparing it with the real measured pedestrian trajectories in the dataset. The evaluation results show that the proposed method has acceptable prediction accuracy compared to other state-of-the-art methods, and it can generate pedestrian trajectories similar to real human trajectories with natural social navigation behaviors such as collision avoidance, leader-follower, and split-and-rejoin.


Title: Social Coordination for Looking-Together Situations
Key Words: telerobotics  social coordination  looking-together situations  utility-maximizing behavior  joint utility  joint-utility computation  utility-yielding behavior  utility model  teleoperated robot  Robot kinematics  Wheelchairs  Legged locomotion  Computational modeling  Human-robot interaction 
Abstract: People engage in social coordination without explicitly communicating when they are conflicting over spatial resources, e.g., a shop clerk who yields to customers the best place to view products. In this study, we proposed a method that achieves such social coordination with a robot. Our idea is that the social coordination between two agents can be represented as utility-maximizing behavior for joint utility rather than just by a single agent utility. That is, given that each agent's reasonable behavior can be represented as utility-maximizing behavior for single agent utility, we model each agent's plans for himself as well as for the partner agent. Moreover, superiority relationships exist in this joint-utility computation. Since each agent knows such superiority relationships, social coordination can be modeled as utility-yielding behavior based on informed superiority. We specifically focus on looking-together situations for which we developed a utility model. With simulations, we investigate whether the above joint-utility-based modeling successfully reproduces social coordination in looking-together situations. We conducted an experiment in a situation where a tele-operated robot and a customer together look at products in a shop environment. Our experimental results show that our proposed method enables the robot to socially coordinate spatial resources, yielding significantly more thoughtful, less-self-centered, and appropriate impressions than the alternate robot.


Title: Policy Shaping with Supervisory Attention Driven Exploration
Key Words: interactive systems  learning (artificial intelligence)  mobile robots  policy shaping  robots  human supervision  human teacher  information-gathering actions  interactive reinforcement learning  interactive RL  Reinforcement learning  Task analysis  Negative feedback  Markov processes  Prediction algorithms  Intelligent robots 
Abstract: Robots deployed for long periods of time need to be able to explore and learn from their environment. One approach to this problem has been reinforcement learning (RL), in which robots receive rewards from the environment that allow them to choose optimal actions. To speed learning when human supervision is available, interactive reinforcement learning solicits feedback from a human teacher. However, this approach typically assumes that learning takes place under continuous supervision, which is unlikely to hold in long-term scenarios. We propose an extension to a method of interactive reinforcement learning, policy shaping, that takes into account human attention. Our approach enables better performance while unattended by favoring information-gathering actions when attended and actions that have received positive feedback when unattended. We test our approach in both simulation and on a robot, finding that our method learns faster than policy shaping and performs more safely than policy shaping while no one is paying attention to the robot.


Title: Learning Robotic Grasping Strategy Based on Natural-Language Object Descriptions
Key Words: control engineering computing  dexterous manipulators  learning (artificial intelligence)  natural language processing  robotic grasping strategy  natural-language object descriptions  anthropomorphic robotic hand  natural-language descriptions  learning-based approach  natural language description  object features  natural-language processing technique  grasp type  human grasping taxonomy  AR10 robotic hand  Robots  Grasping  Taxonomy  Shape  Natural language processing  Kinematics  Task analysis 
Abstract: Given the description of an object, s physical attributes, humans can determine a proper strategy and grasp an object. This paper proposes an approach to determine grasping strategy for an anthropomorphic robotic hand simply based on natural-language descriptions of an object. A learning-based approach is proposed to help a robotic hand learn suitable grasp poses starting from the natural language description of the object. Object features are parsed from natural-language descriptions by using a customized natural-language processing technique. The most likely grasp type for the given object is learned from the human grasping taxonomy based on the parsed features. The grasping strategy generated by the proposed approach is evaluated both by simulation study and execution of the grasps on an AR10 robotic hand.


Title: Optimization-based Design and Analysis of Planar Rotary Springs
Key Words: actuators  finite element analysis  optimisation  robots  springs (mechanical)  torque  torsion  rotary series elastic actuator springs  rapid torsional loading  FEA  mechanical testing  planar rotary springs  optimization-based design method  robotics applications  Springs  Strain  Stress  Mathematical model  Robots  Actuators  Optimization 
Abstract: This paper develops new methods to design high performance rotary series elastic actuator springs for robotics applications. The approach is based on a spring arm mathematical model that was previously introduced by the authors. The key contribution is the development of an optimization-based design method which maximizes the springs' overall torque density through optimization of the arm profile. An improved analysis algorithm allows for rapid torsional loading response simulation with possible internal contacts between the spring arms. The proposed design and analysis algorithms are validated through FEA and prototype mechanical testing.


Title: Quaternion Joint: Dexterous 3-DOF Joint Representing Quaternion Motion for High-Speed Safe Interaction
Key Words: actuators  dexterous manipulators  manipulator dynamics  manipulator kinematics  quaternion joint  wrist mechanism  tendon-driven mechanism  dexterous 3-DOF joint  quaternion motion  forward kinematics  inverse kinematics  lightweight manipulators  Wires  Wrist  Manipulators  Quaternions  Pulleys  Kinematics 
Abstract: This paper presents a dexterous three degree-of-freedom (3-DOF) wrist mechanism with a large range of motion and uniform manipulability without singular points throughout the entire range of motion. It has a 2-DOF spherical pure rolling joint surrounded by two pairs of actuating wires, the motions of which directly represent the quaternion values of the joint; this joint is therefore named the quaternion joint. Based on this property, it has simple and clear forward and inverse kinematics and high manipulability. By adding a 1-DOF rotation joint at the distal end of the quaternion joint, it can be extended to a 3-DOF joint mechanism. To precisely approximate the spherical pure rolling motion in a confined central space, a novel parallel mechanism composed of three identical supporting linkages was introduced. Unlike conventional parallel mechanisms, it has a compact and simple structure with no interference among the supporting linkages. Because the wrist mechanism is a tendon-driven mechanism, and is thus suitable for lightweight manipulators, it is mounted to a low-inertia manipulator with high stiffness and strength, namely, LIMS2-AMBIDEX, which is an improved version of the authors' previous research. The basic concept and thorough theoretical analysis of the wrist mechanism are described herein, and the simulations and experiments conducted for a quantitative validation are presented.


Title: A Novel Design of Extended Coaxial Spherical Joint Module for a New Modular Type-Multiple DOFs Robotic Platform
Key Words: actuators  biomechanics  motion control  robot dynamics  robot kinematics  torque  design constraints  mechanical impedance reduction effect  E-CoSMo  extended coaxial spherical joint module  robot platform  coaxial spherical parallel mechanism  universal joint mechanism  mechanical performance  modular type-multiple DOFs robotic platform  single actuator  Conferences  Intelligent robots 
Abstract: In this study, we propose an extended coaxial spherical joint module (E-CoSMo) with three to four degrees of freedom (DOFs) for a multi-DOF robot platform. The E-CoSMo consists of a coaxial spherical parallel mechanism (CSPM) with three DOFs and one extended DOF based on a universal joint mechanism (UJM) coaxially connected to the CSPM. This structure enables the application of serial link configuration (such as shoulder-elbow) with wide and universal ROMs while allowing all four actuators to be placed in the base. This makes the inertia of the moving link part to be dramatically reduced and thus contributes to decreasing the mechanical impedance of the multi-DOF robot system. In addition, through the effective design of the coaxial spherical joint module, the output rotational torque in a specific axial direction reaches approximately three times then the torque of a single actuator. To optimally implement this, we applied an optimal design approach that considers the mechanical performance and design constraints. The mechanical impedance reduction effect through the proposed module is discussed. The feasibility of the E-CoSMo is also verified through a dynamic simulation. Finally, the proposed mechanism is verified using a fabricated prototype.


Title: Image-Based Visual Servoing Controller for Multirotor Aerial Robots Using Deep Reinforcement Learning
Key Words: aerospace computing  aerospace robotics  aircraft control  control engineering computing  gradient methods  helicopters  learning (artificial intelligence)  mobile robots  robot vision  visual servoing  deep reinforcement learning algorithm  deep deterministic policy gradients  image-based visual servoing controller  IBVS policy  linear velocity commands  multirotor aerial robots  simulated flight scenarios  Gazebo-based simulation scenario  RL-IBVS controller  Visual servoing  Reinforcement learning  Unmanned aerial vehicles  Task analysis  Detectors  Cameras 
Abstract: In this paper, we propose a novel Image-Based Visual Servoing (IBVS) controller for multirotor aerial robots based on a recent deep reinforcement learning algorithm named Deep Deterministic Policy Gradients (DDPG). The proposed RL-IBVS controller is successfully trained in a Gazebo-based simulation scenario in order to learn the appropriate IBVS policy for directly mapping a state, based on errors in the image, to the linear velocity commands of the aerial robot. A thorough validation of the proposed controller has been conducted in simulated and real flight scenarios, demonstrating outstanding capabilities in object following applications. Moreover, we conduct a detailed comparison of the RL-IBVS controller with respect to classic and partitioned IBVS approaches.


Title: C-blox: A Scalable and Consistent TSDF-based Dense Mapping Approach
Key Words: autonomous aerial vehicles  image reconstruction  image sensors  robot vision  SLAM (robots)  truncated signed distance field  TSDF subvolumes  lightweight micro aerial vehicle  scalable maps  map growth  bundle adjustment  feature-based camera tracking  dense 3D mapping  map consistency  delayed loop closure  accumulated camera tracking error  precise dense 3D maps  higher level decision making  robotic platforms  consistent dense map  Cameras  Simultaneous localization and mapping  Image reconstruction  Three-dimensional displays  Robot vision systems 
Abstract: In many applications, maintaining a consistent dense map of the environment is key to enabling robotic platforms to perform higher level decision making. Several works have addressed the challenge of creating precise dense 3D maps from visual sensors providing depth information. However, during operation over longer missions, reconstructions can easily become inconsistent due to accumulated camera tracking error and delayed loop closure. Without explicitly addressing the problem of map consistency, recovery from such distortions tends to be difficult. We present a novel system for dense 3D mapping which addresses the challenge of building consistent maps while dealing with scalability. Central to our approach is the representation of the environment as a collection of overlapping Truncated Signed Distance Field (TSDF) subvolumes. These subvolumes are localized through feature-based camera tracking and bundle adjustment. Our main contribution is a pipeline for identifying stable regions in the map, and to fuse the contributing subvolumes. This approach allows us to reduce map growth while still maintaining consistency. We demonstrate the proposed system on a publicly available dataset and simulation engine, and demonstrate the efficacy of the proposed approach for building consistent and scalable maps. Finally we demonstrate our approach running in real-time onboard a lightweight Micro Aerial Vehicle (MAV).


Title: A Deep Reinforcement Learning Technique for Vision-Based Autonomous Multirotor Landing on a Moving Platform
Key Words: attitude control  autonomous aerial vehicles  continuous systems  helicopters  learning (artificial intelligence)  learning systems  mobile robots  motion control  neurocontrollers  robot vision  state-space methods  deep learning techniques  deep deterministic policy gradients algorithm  motion control  deep Q- learning  active domain  robotics-related tasks  multirotor control  attitude control  state space  continuous action space  deep reinforcement learning technique  vision-based autonomous multirotor landing maneuver  continuous state  continuous action domain  moving platform  Reinforcement learning  Unmanned aerial vehicles  Robots  Cameras  Aerospace electronics  Neural networks  Task analysis 
Abstract: Deep learning techniques for motion control have recently been qualitatively improved, since the successful application of Deep Q- Learning to the continuous action domain in Atari-like games. Based on these ideas, Deep Deterministic Policy Gradients (DDPG) algorithm was able to provide impressive results in continuous state and action domains, which are closely linked to most of the robotics-related tasks. In this paper, a vision-based autonomous multirotor landing maneuver on top of a moving platform is presented. The behaviour has been completely learned in simulation without prior human knowledge and by means of deep reinforcement learning techniques. Since the multirotor is controlled in attitude, no high level state estimation is required. The complete behaviour has been trained with continuous action and state spaces, and has provided proper results (landing at a maximum velocity of 2 m/s), Furthermore, it has been validated in a wide variety of conditions, for both simulated and real-flight scenarios, using a low-cost, lightweight and out-of-the-box consumer multirotor.


Title: Laser-Based Reactive Navigation for Multirotor Aerial Robots using Deep Reinforcement Learning
Key Words: autonomous aerial vehicles  collision avoidance  learning (artificial intelligence)  mobile robots  traditional motion planning algorithms  precise maps  fast reactive navigation algorithm  multirotor aerial robots  2D-laser range measurements  Gazebo-based simulation scenario  artificial potential field formulation  laser-based reactive navigation  collision avoidance capabilities  reactive navigation behavior  deep reinforcement learning  dynamic obstacles  static obstacles  Navigation  Robots  Unmanned aerial vehicles  Lasers  Heuristic algorithms  Reinforcement learning  Planning 
Abstract: Navigation in unknown indoor environments with fast collision avoidance capabilities is an ongoing research topic. Traditional motion planning algorithms rely on precise maps of the environment, where re-adapting a generated path can be highly demanding in terms of computational cost. In this paper, we present a fast reactive navigation algorithm using Deep Reinforcement Learning applied to multi rotor aerial robots. Taking as input the 2D-laser range measurements and the relative position of the aerial robot with respect to the desired goal, the proposed algorithm is successfully trained in a Gazebo-based simulation scenario by adopting an artificial potential field formulation. A thorough evaluation of the trained agent has been carried out both in simulated and real indoor scenarios, showing the appropriate reactive navigation behavior of the agent in the presence of static and dynamic obstacles.


Title: Distributed Deep Reinforcement Learning for Fighting Forest Fires with a Network of Aerial Robots
Key Words: aerospace control  autonomous aerial vehicles  dynamic programming  fires  learning (artificial intelligence)  Markov processes  Monte Carlo methods  optimal control  rescue robots  distributed deep reinforcement learning based strategy  UAVs  Markov decision process  deep RL approach  deep RL policy  forest sizes  simulated forest fire  unmanned aerial vehicles  aerial robots  Vegetation  Forestry  Sensors  Retardants  Monitoring  Lattices  Unmanned aerial vehicles 
Abstract: This paper proposes a distributed deep reinforcement learning (RL) based strategy for a team of Unmanned Aerial Vehicles (UAVs) to autonomously fight forest fires. We first model the forest fire as a Markov decision process (MDP) with a factored structure. We consider optimally controlling the forest fire without agents using dynamic programming, and show any exact solution and many approximate solutions are computationally intractable. Given the problem complexity, we consider a deep RL approach in which each agent learns a policy requiring only local information. We show with Monte Carlo simulations that the deep RL policy outperforms a hand-tuned heuristic, and scales well for various forest sizes and different numbers of UAVs as well as variations in model parameters. Experimental demonstrations with mobile robots fighting a simulated forest fire in the Robotarium at the Georgia Institute of Technology are also presented.


Title: Feedback Control For Cassie With Deep Reinforcement Learning
Key Words: feedback  learning (artificial intelligence)  legged locomotion  Markov processes  motion control  robot dynamics  velocity control  Cassie  deep reinforcement learning  bipedal locomotion skills  local linearization  reduced-order abstractions  tractable solutions  model-based control strategies  torque limits  joint limits  nonlinearities  control computations  DRL  machine learning literature  ad-hoc simulation models  realizable bipedal robots  feedback control problem  robust walking controllers  controller robustness  model-free approach  Legged locomotion  Reinforcement learning  Computational modeling  Aerospace electronics  Feedback control  Trajectory 
Abstract: Bipedal locomotion skills are challenging to develop. Control strategies often use local linearization of the dynamics in conjunction with reduced-order abstractions to yield tractable solutions. In these model-based control strategies, the controller is often not fully aware of many details, including torque limits, joint limits, and other non-linearities that are necessarily excluded from the control computations for simplicity. Deep reinforcement learning (DRL) offers a promising model-free approach for controlling bipedal locomotion which can more fully exploit the dynamics. However, current results in the machine learning literature are often based on ad-hoc simulation models that are not based on corresponding hardware. Thus it remains unclear how well DRL will succeed on realizable bipedal robots. In this paper, we demonstrate the effectiveness of DRL using a realistic model of Cassie, a bipedal robot. By formulating a feedback control problem as finding the optimal policy for a Markov Decision Process, we are able to learn robust walking controllers that imitate a reference motion with DRL. Controllers for different walking speeds are learned by imitating simple time-scaled versions of the original reference motion. Controller robustness is demonstrated through several challenging tests, including sensory delay, walking blindly on irregular terrain and unexpected pushes at the pelvis. We also show we can interpolate between individual policies and that robustness can be improved with an interpolated policy.


Title: Vision-Based Surgical Tool Pose Estimation for the da Vinci® Robotic Surgical System
Key Words: Bayes methods  computer vision  endoscopes  medical image processing  medical robotics  particle filtering (numerical methods)  pose estimation  rendering (computer graphics)  robot vision  stereo image processing  surgery  virtual reality  robot endoscopes  defined tool geometry  virtual images  silhouette rendering algorithm  Bayesian state estimation  computer vision techniques  robot kinematics  stereo vision  vision-based Surgical tool pose estimation  surgical robotic system  surgical tool tracking  endoscopic stereo image streams  virtual rendering method  Tools  Solid modeling  Rendering (computer graphics)  Robots  Cameras  Bayes methods  Geometry 
Abstract: This paper presents an approach to surgical tool tracking using stereo vision for the da Vinci® Surgical Robotic System. The proposed method is based on robot kinematics, computer vision techniques and Bayesian state estimation. The proposed method employs a silhouette rendering algorithm to create virtual images of the surgical tool by generating the silhouette of the defined tool geometry under the da Vinci® robot endoscopes. The virtual rendering method provides the tool representation in image form, which makes it possible to measure the distance between the rendered tool and real tool from endoscopic stereo image streams. Particle Filter algorithm employing the virtual rendering method is then used for surgical tool tracking. The tracking performance is evaluated on an actual da Vinci® surgical robotic system and a ROS/Gazebo-based simulation of the da Vinci® system.


Title: Human-Robot Cooperative Object Manipulation with Contact Changes
Key Words: cooperative systems  human-robot interaction  interactive systems  manipulators  mobile robots  path planning  physical interaction system  bi-manual physical cooperation  force interaction cues  interactive search-based planning  online trajectory  motion generation  mixed initiative collaboration strategy  human-robot cooperative object manipulation  human-robot interaction  bi-manual mobile robot  Robot sensing systems  Task analysis  Planning  Robot kinematics  Trajectory  Synchronization 
Abstract: This paper presents a system for cooperatively manipulating large objects between a human and a robot. This physical interaction system is designed to handle, transport, or manipulate large objects of different shapes in cooperation with a human. Unique points are the bi-manual physical cooperation, the sequential characteristic of the cooperation including contact changes, and a novel architecture combining force interaction cues, interactive search-based planning, and online trajectory and motion generation. The resulting system implements a mixed initiative collaboration strategy, deferring to the human when his intentions are unclear, and driving the task once understood. This results in an easy and intuitive human-robot interaction. It is evaluated in simulations and on a bi-manual mobile robot with 32 degrees of freedom.


Title: From Human Physical Interaction To Online Motion Adaptation Using Parameterized Dynamical Systems
Key Words: adaptive control  control engineering computing  human-robot interaction  manipulator dynamics  motion control  path planning  trajectory control  parameterized time-independent dynamical systems  motion flexibility  motion generation  impedance-controlled robots  adaptive motion planning approach  parameterized dynamical systems  online motion adaptation  human physical interaction  Task analysis  Trajectory  Impedance  Service robots  Convergence  Planning 
Abstract: In this work, we present an adaptive motion planning approach for impedance-controlled robots to modify their tasks based on human physical interactions. We use a class of parameterized time-independent dynamical systems for motion generation where the modulation of such parameters allows for motion flexibility. To adapt to human interactions, we update the parameters of our dynamical system in order to reduce the tracking error (i.e., between the desired trajectory generated by the dynamical system and the real trajectory influenced by the human interaction). We provide analytical analysis and several simulations of our method. Finally, we investigate our approach through real world experiments with a 7-DOF KUKA LWR 4+ robot performing tasks such as polishing and pick-and-place.


Title: A Series Elastic Brake Pedal to Preserve Conventional Pedal Feel under Regenerative Braking
Key Words: actuators  brakes  closed loop systems  elasticity  force control  force feedback  regenerative braking  robust control  series elastic brake pedal  force-feedback brake pedal  series elastic actuation  closed-loop force control  pedal feel compensation  regenerative braking  robust controller  fidelity force control  impedance characteristic  frequency spectrum  Brakes  Force  Friction  Force control  Actuators  Vehicles  Couplings 
Abstract: We propose a force-feedback brake pedal with series elastic actuation to preserve the conventional brake pedal feel during cooperative regenerative braking. The novelty of the proposed design is due to the deliberate introduction of a compliant element between the actuator and the brake pedal whose deflections are measured to estimate interaction forces and to perform closed-loop force control. Thanks to its series elasticity, the force-feedback brake pedal can utilize robust controllers to achieve high fidelity force control, possesses favorable output impedance characteristics over the entire frequency spectrum, and can be implemented in a compact package using low-cost components. The applicability and effectiveness of the proposed series elastic brake pedal have been tested through human subject experiments that evaluate simulated cooperative regenerative braking scenarios with and without pedal feel compensation. The experimental results and responses to the accompanying questionnaire indicate that pedal feel compensation through the series elastic brake pedal can significantly decrease hard braking instances, improving safety and driver experience.


Title: Enhanced Non-Steady Gliding Performance of the MultiMo-Bat through Optimal Airfoil Configuration and Control Strategy
Key Words: aerodynamics  aerospace components  autonomous aerial vehicles  design engineering  drag  mobile robots  optimal control  pitch control (position)  robot dynamics  active pitch control strategy  center-of-mass location  morphological intelligence  optimal control strategy  collapsible airfoils  nonsteady-state gliding performance  gliding robots  drag coefficients  aerodynamic complexities  Robots  Automotive components  Aerodynamics  Optimization  Atmospheric modeling  Trajectory  Springs 
Abstract: Many robots make use of gravitational potential energy, generated by another mode, to enhance mobility through gliding locomotion. However, unstructured environments can create situations in which the initial conditions for steady-state gliding cannot be achieved; for example, jumping out of a hole, where the obstacle is very close to the robot. This paper suggests an optimization methodology for finding airfoil configurations and control strategies to maximize the effective non-steady-state gliding ratio for the most challenging initial condition, that of zero velocity. Parameters for the optimization are a location of a robot's center-of-mass in relation to its center-of-pressure and, through the addition of a tail, an active pitch control strategy. The optimal center-of-mass location produces the best passive gliding performance (morphological intelligence), and the optimal control strategy improves the gliding distance. Due to the aerodynamic complexities of modeling the collapsible airfoils, we find the optimal location of the center-of-mass from gliding experiments performed on the robot at different center-of-mass locations and initial pitch angles. An optimal location of the center-of-mass was found to be 40% of the wing chord for our robotic platform; measured from the wing's leading edge. The optimal location has a wide range of initial pitch angles which result in stable, yet non-steady-state, gliding behaviors. The morphological intelligence built into our robotic platform creates two observable dynamic behaviors, that of horizontal velocity gain and sink rate minimization. We then estimate the drag coefficients from the experiments, and conduct dynamic simulations to optimize the pitch control strategy. The design methodology presented here can enhance the non-steady-state gliding performance of a broad range of gliding robots, and the control strategy can further enhance performance on those which utilize an active tail.


Title: Active Range and Bearing-based Radiation Source Localization
Key Words: cameras  image sensors  radioactive sources  static step size  radiation mapping approach  active source localization approach  adaptive step size  localization time  3D radiation source localization  bearing sensor  Compton gamma camera  image radiation  source locations  active source localization framework  Fisher Information  bearing-based radiation source localization  passive source localization  size 0.26 m  Sensors  Cameras  Photonics  Three-dimensional displays  Image sensors  Position measurement  Two dimensional displays 
Abstract: 3D radiation source localization is a common task across applications such as decommissioning, disaster response, and security, but traditional count-based sensors struggle to efficiently disambiguate between symmetries in sensor, source, and environment configurations. Recent works have demonstrated successful passive source localization using a bearing sensor called the Compton gamma camera that can image radiation. This paper first presents an approach to mapping the spatial distribution of radiation with a gamma camera to estimate source locations. An active source localization framework is then developed that greedily selects new waypoints that maximize the Fisher Information provided by the camera's range and bearing observations for source localization. Finally the common assumption of a static step size in between waypoints is relaxed to allow step sizes to adapt online to the observed information. The proposed radiation mapping approach is evaluated in 5×4 m2 and 14×6 m2 laboratory environments, where multiple point sources were localized to within an average of 0.26 m or 0.6% of the environment dimensions. The active source localization approach is evaluated in simulation and an adaptive step size yields a 27% decrease in the localization time and a 16% decrease in the distance traveled to localize a source in a 15×15×15 m3 environment.


Title: Design and Performance Evaluation of an Infotaxis-Based Three-Dimensional Algorithm for Odor Source Localization
Key Words: electronic noses  gases  mobile robots  probability  wind tunnels  gaseous leak source  high wind speeds  environmental conditions  environmental parameters  multiple algorithmic parameters  wind tunnel  probabilistic Infotaxis algorithm  odor source localization  infotaxis-based three-dimensional algorithm  Robots  Entropy  Atmospheric modeling  Mathematical model  Probabilistic logic  Numerical models  Probability 
Abstract: In this paper we tackle the problem of finding the source of a gaseous leak with a robot in a three-dimensional (3-D) physical space. The proposed method extends the operational range of the probabilistic Infotaxis algorithm [1] into 3-D and makes multiple improvements in order to increase its performance in such settings. The method has been tested systematically through high-fidelity simulations and in a wind tunnel emulating realistic conditions. The impact of multiple algorithmic and environmental parameters has been studied in the experiments. The algorithm shows good performance in various environmental conditions, particularly in high wind speeds and different source release rates.


Title: Energy-Efficient Design and Control of a Vibro-Driven Robot
Key Words: control system synthesis  feedback  friction  mobile robots  motion control  nonlinear control systems  pendulums  position control  robot dynamics  springs (mechanical)  stick-slip  trajectory generation profile  VDR systems  nonlinear-motion prototype  physical robot  dynamic contributions  driving pendulum  partial feedback controller  tracking control  noncollocated constraint conditions  travelling distance  passive dynamics  friction-induced stick-slip motions  spring-augmented pendulum  open problems  underactuated nature  locomotion  vibro-driven robotic systems  energy-efficient design  Robots  Trajectory  Force  Dynamics  Friction  Energy efficiency  Acceleration 
Abstract: Vibro-driven robotic (VDR) systems use stick-slip motions for locomotion. Due to the underactuated nature of the system, efficient design and control are still open problems. We present a new energy preserving design based on a spring-augmented pendulum. We indirectly control the friction-induced stick-slip motions by exploiting the passive dynamics in order to achieve an improvement in overall travelling distance and energy efficiency. Both collocated and non-collocated constraint conditions are elaborately analysed and considered to obtain a desired trajectory generation profile. For tracking control, we develop a partial feedback controller for the driving pendulum which counteracts the dynamic contributions from the platform. Comparative simulation studies show the effectiveness and intriguing performance of the proposed approach, while its feasibility is experimentally verified through a physical robot. Our robot is to the best of our knowledge the first nonlinear-motion prototype in literature towards the VDR systems.


Title: Multi-Agent Imitation Learning for Driving Simulation
Key Words: intelligent transportation systems  learning (artificial intelligence)  multi-agent systems  multiagent Imitation Learning  human drivers  multiagent setting  PS-GAIL method  single-agent GAIL policies  curriculum learning  multiple agents  test time  multiagent driving scenarios  single-agent environments  representative human driver models  Generative Adversarial Imitation Learning  autonomous vehicles  appealing option  Vehicles  Training  Trajectory  Optimization  Biological system modeling  Testing  Markov processes 
Abstract: Simulation is an appealing option for validating the safety of autonomous vehicles. Generative Adversarial Imitation Learning (GAIL) has recently been shown to learn representative human driver models. These human driver models were learned through training in single-agent environments, but they have difficulty in generalizing to multi-agent driving scenarios. We argue these difficulties arise because observations at training and test time are sampled from different distributions. This difference makes such models unsuitable for the simulation of driving scenes, where multiple agents must interact realistically over long time horizons. We extend GAIL to address these shortcomings through a parameter-sharing approach grounded in curriculum learning. Compared with single-agent GAIL policies, policies generated by our PS-GAIL method prove superior at interacting stably in a multi-agent setting and capturing the emergent behavior of human drivers.


Title: Active Learning based on Data Uncertainty and Model Sensitivity
Key Words: humanoid robots  learning (artificial intelligence)  pendulums  elementary skills  smooth movements  newly acquired knowledge  additional demonstration  nonsmooth transitions  latent space  metric learning  deep generative models  smooth trajectories  abrupt movements  missing information  necessary knowledge  fundamentally different skills  model sensitivity  data uncertainty  active learning  Uncertainty  Jacobian matrices  Manifolds  Data models  Measurement  Robot sensing systems 
Abstract: Robots can rapidly acquire new skills from demonstrations. However, during generalisation of skills or transitioning across fundamentally different skills, it is unclear whether the robot has the necessary knowledge to perform the task. Failing to detect missing information often leads to abrupt movements or to collisions with the environment. Active learning can quantify the uncertainty of performing the task and, in general, locate regions of missing information. We introduce a novel algorithm for active learning and demonstrate its utility for generating smooth trajectories. Our approach is based on deep generative models and metric learning in latent spaces. It relies on the Jacobian of the likelihood to detect non-smooth transitions in the latent space, i.e., transitions that lead to abrupt changes in the movement of the robot. When non-smooth transitions are detected, our algorithm asks for an additional demonstration from that specific region. The newly acquired knowledge modifies the data manifold and allows for learning a latent representation for generating smooth movements. We demonstrate the efficacy of our approach on generalising elementary skills, transitioning across different skills, and implicitly avoiding collisions with the environment. For our experiments, we use a simulated pendulum where we observe its motion from images and a 7-DoF anthropomorphic arm.


Title: Deep Reinforcement Learning for Audio-Visual Gaze Control
Key Words: gaze tracking  human-robot interaction  learning (artificial intelligence)  deep reinforcement  audio-visual gaze control  human-robot interaction  controlled robot motions  visual observations  acoustic observations  robot head  robotic head  reinforcement learning formulation  gaze control problem  audio data  visual data  audio-visual fusion framework  RL  microphone observations  deep architectures  Visualization  Cameras  Robot vision systems  Robot kinematics  Reinforcement learning 
Abstract: We address the problem of audio-visual gaze control in the specific context of human-robot interaction, namely how controlled robot motions are combined with visual and acoustic observations in order to direct the robot head towards targets of interest. The paper has the following contributions: (i) a novel audio-visual fusion framework that is well suited for controlling the gaze of a robotic head; (ii) a reinforcement learning (RL) formulation for the gaze control problem, using a reward function based on the available temporal sequence of camera and microphone observations; and (iii) several deep architectures that allow to experiment with early and late fusion of audio and visual data. We introduce a simulated environment that enables us to learn the proposed deep RL model without the need of spending hours of tedious interaction. By thoroughly experimenting on a publicly available dataset and on a real robot, we provide empirical evidence that our method achieves state-of-the-art performance.


Title: Soft Curvature and Contact Force Sensors for Deep-Sea Grasping via Soft Optical Waveguides
Key Words: actuators  force sensors  grippers  optical sensors  optical waveguides  remotely operated vehicles  soft robotic hand  optical sensing elements  proprioception  curvature sensing elements  contact force sensors  normal force  sensor design decisions  simulated deep-sea environments  curvature sensors  soft finger actuators  soft curvature  deep-sea grasping  intentionally-lossy optical waveguides  soft robotic grasping applications  subNewton force sensitivity  temperature -10.0 degC to 50.0 degC  Optical waveguides  Optical sensors  Optical device fabrication  Optical losses  Optical refraction  Optical variables control 
Abstract: In this work, we show that sensors based on soft, intentionally-lossy optical waveguides are well-suited for soft robotic grasping applications in the deep-sea. Each finger of a soft robotic hand is outfitted with a 2×1 array of optical sensing elements to enable proprioception and contact force sensing. Curvature sensing elements are integrated directly into the structure of a finger, while contact force sensors are fabricated as standalone units and attached afterward. Along with considerations for interfacing with deep-sea remotely operated vehicles (ROVs), models for the effect of bending on light loss and the effect of normal force on strain were used to inform sensor design decisions. Our sensors show sensitivity to curvature over a range of diameters from 8 mm to 76 mm, and sub-Newton force sensitivity. Additionally, sensors were characterized in simulated deep-sea environments at temperatures from -10°C to 50°C and hydrostatic pressures up to 4000 psi. The sensitivity of our curvature sensors is invariant to the temperatures and pressure ranges tested, though contact force sensors decreased in sensitivity as temperatures decreased. Finally, we successfully demonstrate that sensors onboard soft finger actuators can provide informative state feedback during grasping operations in air and water.


Title: Invariant smoothing on Lie Groups
Key Words: estimation theory  Kalman filters  Lie groups  linearisation techniques  optimisation  robot vision  SLAM (robots)  smoothing methods  linearizations  invariant Kalman filtering  robot localization  posteriori estimator  nonlinear smoothing methods  group-affine observation systems  Lie groups  invariant smoothing  Smoothing methods  Manifolds  Simultaneous localization and mapping  Kalman filters  Random variables  Estimation  Robot localization 
Abstract: In this paper we propose a (non-linear) smoothing algorithm for group-affine observation systems, a recently introduced class of estimation problems on Lie groups that bear a particular structure. As most non-linear smoothing methods, the proposed algorithm is based on a maximum a posteriori estimator, determined by optimization. But owing to the specific properties of the considered class of problems, the involved linearizations are proved to have a form of independence with respect to the current estimates, leveraged to avoid (partially or sometimes totally) the need to relinearize. The method is validated on a robot localization example, both in simulations and on real experimental data.


Title: A Combined RGB and Depth Descriptor for SLAM with Humanoids
Key Words: cameras  feature extraction  humanoid robots  image colour analysis  mobile robots  pose estimation  robot vision  SLAM (robots)  feature tracking  codebooks  reproducibility  humanoid robots  visual simultaneous localization  depth descriptor  ORB-SLAM  visual SLAM system  track features  DLab  RGB-D camera  Nao humanoid  binary descriptor  FAB-MAP  place recognition module  Simultaneous localization and mapping  Image color analysis  Cameras  Three-dimensional displays  Humanoid robots  Visualization 
Abstract: In this paper, we present a visual simultaneous localization and mapping (SLAM) system for humanoid robots. We introduce a new binary descriptor called DLab that exploits the combined information of color, depth, and intensity to achieve robustness with respect to uniqueness, reproducibility, and stability. We use DLab within ORB-SLAM, where we replaced the place recognition module with a modification of FAB-MAP that works with newly built codebooks using our binary descriptor. In experiments carried out in simulation and with a real Nao humanoid equipped with an RGB-D camera, we show that DLab has a superior performance in comparison to other descriptors. The application to feature tracking and place recognition reveal that the new descriptor is able to reliably track features even in sequences with seriously blurred images and that it has a higher percentage of correctly identified similar images. As a result, our new visual SLAM system has a lower absolute trajectory error in comparison to ORB-SLAM and is able to accurately track the robot's trajectory.


Title: Neural-Network-Controlled Spring Mass Template for Humanoid Running
Key Words: humanoid robots  interpolation  legged locomotion  neurocontrollers  pendulums  robot dynamics  springs (mechanical)  table lookup  lookup tables  data-driven approach  deep neural network  simulation data  SLIP model  humanoid robot  whole-body model  QP-based inverse dynamics controller  WALK-MAN robot  robust running motions  neural-network-controlled spring mass template  humanoid running  legged robots  model-based approaches  whole-body robot  controlled SLIP-like behaviors  online incompatibility  interpolations  spring-loaded inverted pendulum model  Legged locomotion  Neural networks  Data models  Training  Biological system modeling  Robot kinematics 
Abstract: To generate dynamic motions such as hopping and running on legged robots, model-based approaches are usually used to embed the well studied spring-loaded inverted pendulum (SLIP) model into the whole-body robot. In producing controlled SLIP-like behaviors, existing methods either suffer from online incompatibility or resort to classical interpolations based on lookup tables. Alternatively, this paper presents the application of a data-driven approach which obviates the need for solving the inverse of the running return map online. Specifically, a deep neural network is trained offline with a large amount of simulation data based on the SLIP model to learn its dynamics. The trained network is applied online to generate reference foot placements for the humanoid robot. The references are then mapped to the whole-body model through a QP-based inverse dynamics controller. Simulation experiments on the WALK-MAN robot are conducted to evaluate the effectiveness of the proposed approach in generating bio-inspired and robust running motions.


Title: Quadruped Locomotion Control Based on Two Bipeds Jointly Carrying Model
Key Words: gait analysis  legged locomotion  motion control  robot dynamics  quadruped locomotion control  novel gait planning  control framework  quadruped robot  rear ends  joint torques  support legs  bipedal sub-robots  quadruped body forces  bipedal torso forces  operating modes  virtual forces  support leg torques  gait generators  gait parameters  hind legs  Legged locomotion  Robot kinematics  Torso  Radio frequency  Hip  Mathematical model 
Abstract: A novel gait planning and control framework was developed for quadruped locomotion of a robot. It modeled the quadruped robot as two bipeds carrying the body from the front and rear ends. We first mapped the relationship between the joint torques of support legs and the torso forces of the bipedal sub-robots. Then the equations describing the relationship between the quadruped body forces and the bipedal torso forces under various operating modes of the robot were deduced and solved. Virtual forces were generated on the quadruped body to manipulate its velocity and orientation. Then these virtual forces were distributed to the front and hind sub-robots to generate support leg torques. The state machines and gait generators for the two bipedal sub-robots were designed individually, resulting in the decoupling of the gait parameters in the front legs and hind legs. The effectiveness of the controller was validated through dynamic simulations.


Title: An Investigation of 2nd-Order Fixed Point SLIP Behavior
Key Words: approximation theory  collision avoidance  friction  legged locomotion  nonlinear control systems  pendulums  1st-order fixed points  2nd-order fixed points  2nd-order fixed point SLIP behavior  analytical stance phase approximation  friction cone constraints  obstacle avoidance  SLIP model behavior analysis  nondimensional leg stiffness  numerical return map search scheme  nondimensional SLIP model  Legged locomotion  Springs  Friction  Mathematical model  Numerical models  Trajectory 
Abstract: This paper introduces alternative behaviors described by the SLIP model when it is subject to a range of initial conditions. A non-dimensional SLIP model and a numerical return map search scheme are used to determine fixed points as a function of non-dimensional leg stiffness and vertical displacement under friction constraints. A SLIP model behavior analysis is performed, using an analytical stance phase approximation, by diverging from the fixed points, i.e. by increasing/decreasing initial horizontal velocity, and/or touchdown angle. The results show that beyond the regular fixed points, the SLIP model performs an alternative, stable behavior that repeats itself every two cycles of motion. We call these 2nd-order fixed points and the regular ones 1st-order fixed points. A numerical simulation scheme was developed to investigate 2nd-order fixed points for a wide range of horizontal velocities and touchdown angles. Results show that 2nd-order fixed points respecting the friction cone constraints exist that can lead to a number of different behaviors such as high jumps, obstacle avoidance of different heights, or backward motion.


Title: Determining Optimal Gait Parameters for a Statically Stable Walking Human Assistive Quadruped Robot
Key Words: legged locomotion  optimal control  optimisation  robot dynamics  stability  optimal gait parameters  statically stable walking human assistive quadruped robot  optimal statically stable gait  quadruped robot walking  energy efficient gait  energy efficient quadruped gait  cost function  energy term  stability term  quasistatic analysis  human assistive device  optimization  Legged locomotion  Foot  Cost function  Stability analysis  Gravity 
Abstract: In this paper we propose a method to determine an optimal statically stable gait for a quadruped robot walking in the presence of an expected disturbance. There exists a tradeoff between a stable gait and an energy efficient gait. Our goal is to determine an energy efficient quadruped gait that will maintain stability while a human uses the device to stabilize themselves while walking. In order to determine an optimal gait, we present a cost function consisting of an energy term and a stability term. A method of evaluating the cost function using dynamics and quasi-static analysis is demonstrated. The optimization is implemented for a human assistive device currently being designed and the results are verified in simulation.


Title: Haptic Feedback and Dynamic Active Constraints for Robot-Assisted Endovascular Catheterization
Key Words: blood vessels  catheters  ergonomics  force feedback  haptic interfaces  manipulators  medical robotics  phantoms  surgery  robot-assisted endovascular catheterization  computer assistance  reduced radiation doses  tortuous anatomy  natural bedside manipulation skills  dexterity  clinical usability  robotic platform  ergonomic master-slave system  navigation system  integrated vision-based haptic feedback  natural bedside skills  dynamic motion tracking  catheterization tasks  phantom  mean force  maximum force  force feedback  vision-based dynamic active constraints  ergonomic robotic catheter manipulator  robot-assisted endovascular procedures  CathBot  vessel walls  vascular surgeon  catheter tip  Catheters  Surgery  Navigation  Force feedback  Robot sensing systems 
Abstract: Robotic and computer assistance can bring significant benefits to endovascular procedures in terms of precision and stability, reduced radiation doses, improved comfort and access to difficult and tortuous anatomy. However, the design of current commercially available platforms tends to alter the natural bedside manipulation skills of the operator, so that the manually acquired experience and dexterity are not well utilized. Furthermore, most of these systems lack of haptic feedback, preventing their acceptance and limiting the clinical usability. In this paper a new robotic platform for endovascular catheterization, the CathBot, is presented. It is an ergonomic master-slave system with navigation system and integrated vision-based haptic feedback, designed to maintain the natural bedside skills of the vascular surgeon. Unlike previous work reported in literature, dynamic motion tracking of both the vessel walls the catheter tip is incorporated to create dynamic active constraints. The system was evaluated through a combined quantitative and qualitative user study simulating catheterization tasks on a phantom. Forces exerted on the phantom were measured. The results showed a 70% decrease in mean force and 61% decrease in maximum force when force feedback is provided. This research provides the first integration of vision-based dynamic active constraints within an ergonomic robotic catheter manipulator. The technological advances presented here, demonstrates that vision-based haptic feedback can improve the effectiveness, precision, and safety of robot-assisted endovascular procedures.


Title: A Soft Robot to Navigate the Lumens of the Body Using Undulatory Locomotion Generated by a Rotating Magnetic Dipole Field
Key Words: blood vessels  magnetic actuators  magnetic fields  magnetic sensors  medical robotics  microrobots  mobile robots  motion control  numerical analysis  path planning  permanent magnets  rotating magnetic dipole field  soft-robotic actuation concept  mesoscale medical robot  natural lumens  blood vessels  embedded permanent magnets  magnetic polarity  rotating dipole magnetic field  traveling-wave undulatory motion  soft-actuation technology  nonuniform dipole fields  undulatory locomotion  uniform dipole fields  diagnostic context  therapeutic context  numerical simulation  Coils  Magnetic resonance imaging  Magnetic separation  Soft robotics  Permanent magnets  Magnetic moments 
Abstract: In this paper, we describe a soft-robotic actuation concept to enable a mesoscale medical robot to navigate the natural lumens of the body, such as blood vessels and intestines. The concept comprises a simple soft robot with two embedded permanent magnets with alternating magnetic polarity, and a rotating (nonuniform) dipole magnetic field that is swept over the robot, resulting in a traveling-wave undulatory motion that propels the robot forward and backward. This soft-actuation technology can be fabricated in a wide range of sizes due to its simplicity, and has the potential to be applied in a variety of diagnostic and therapeutic contexts. We conduct experiments and numerical simulations to verify the movement of the soft robot. Then, we confirm the benefits of using nonuniform dipole fields over using uniform fields, as well as the benefits of alternating the polarity of the magnets embedded in the device.


Title: Bayesian-inferred Flexible Path Generation in Human-Robot Collaborative Networks
Key Words: Bayes methods  computational geometry  human-robot interaction  inference mechanisms  mobile robots  optimisation  path planning  position control  probability  stochastic processes  flexible path human-robot collaborative network  weighted Euclidean distance  potentially optimal tasks  single task  optimal trajectory  task selection  human intent  Bayesian inference  human-robot collaborative networks  Bayesian-inferred flexible path generation  highly impulsive humans  Task analysis  Trajectory  Robot kinematics  Bayes methods  Collaboration  Cost function 
Abstract: This paper presents a novel method for generating the trajectory of a robot assisting a human in servicing a set of tasks embedded in a convex 2-D domain. This method makes use of Bayesian inference to predict human intent in task selection. Rather than following optimal trajectory towards a single task, the robot computes a set of potentially optimal tasks each weighted by the human's posterior probability and superimposes them into a cost function that is designed to minimize the weighted Euclidean distance relative to set. The effect is a flexible path human-robot collaborative network that is shown in simulation to complete all tasks in a given domain in less time than existing methods for a certain class of highly impulsive humans, i.e., humans that tend to randomly switch tasks at times generated by a Poisson counting process. The algorithm is also illustrated through an experimental demonstration.


Title: Robot Programming Through Augmented Trajectories in Augmented Reality
Key Words: augmented reality  helmet mounted displays  human-robot interaction  industrial robots  motion control  robot programming  teaching  augmented trajectories  augmented reality  mixed reality head-mounted display  robotic interface  robot programming task  robot motion  AR-robot teaching interface  kinesthetic teaching interface  7-DOF robot arm  Microsoft Hololens  carbon-fiber-reinforcement-polymer vacuum bagging process  AR manufacturing paradigm  Task analysis  Trajectory  Service robots  Visualization  End effectors 
Abstract: This paper presents a future-focused approach for robot programming based on augmented trajectories. Using a mixed reality head-mounted display (Microsoft Hololens) and a 7-DOF robot arm, we designed an augmented reality (AR) robotic interface with four interactive functions to ease the robot programming task: 1) Trajectory specification. 2) Virtual previews of robot motion. 3) Visualization of robot parameters. 4) Online reprogramming during simulation and execution. We validate our AR-robot teaching interface by comparing it with a kinesthetic teaching interface in two different scenarios as part of a pilot study: creation of contact surface path and free space path. Furthermore, we present an industrial case study that illustrates our AR manufacturing paradigm by interacting with a 7-DOF robot arm to reduce wrinkles during the pleating step of the carbon-fiber-reinforcement-polymer vacuum bagging process in a simulated scenario.


Title: Robust Continuous System Integration for Critical Deep-Sea Robot Operations Using Knowledge-Enabled Simulation in the Loop
Key Words: autonomous underwater vehicles  data acquisition  marine safety  mobile robots  perception  robust continuous system integration  critical deep-sea robot operations  knowledge-enabled simulation  reliability  self-localization  system components  safety  simulation in the loop methodology  SIL methodology  Task analysis  Robot sensing systems  Data models  Benchmark testing  Continuous time systems 
Abstract: Deep-sea robot operations demand a high level of safety, efficiency and reliability. As a consequence, measures within the development stage have to be implemented to extensively evaluate and benchmark system components ranging from data acquisition, perception and localization to control. We present an approach based on high-fidelity simulation that embeds spatial and environmental conditions from recorded real-world data. This simulation in the loop (SIL) methodology allows for mitigating the discrepancy between simulation and real-world conditions, e.g. regarding sensor noise. As a result, this work provides a platform to thoroughly investigate and benchmark behaviors of system components concurrently under real and simulated conditions. The conducted evaluation shows the benefit of the proposed work in tasks related to perception and self-localization under changing spatial and environmental conditions.


Title: Coverage Optimization with Non-Actuated, Floating Mobile Sensors using Iterative Trajectory Planning in Marine Flow Fields
Key Words: oceanographic equipment  oceanographic techniques  passive nodes  coverage optimization  mobile sensors  iterative trajectory planning  marine flow fields  spatial coverage problem  passive floating sensors  iterative measurement  modeling scheme  initial sample point  survey area  ambient surface currents  computational tool  autonomous marine surveying system  ocean drifters  spatial distribution  ocean flow fields  Trajectory  Sensors  Oceans  Planning  Sea measurements  Computational modeling  Robots 
Abstract: This paper considers a spatial coverage problem in which a network of passive floating sensors is used to collect samples in a body of water. We employ an iterative measurement and modeling scheme to incrementally deploy sensors so as to achieve spatial coverage, despite only controlling the initial sample point. Once deployed, sensors are moved about a survey area by ambient surface currents. We demonstrate our results in simulation on 40 different ocean flow fields and compare against several baselines. This work provides a computational tool for scientists seeking a low-cost, autonomous marine surveying system. Although in this paper, we concentrate on ocean drifters, our approach can be extended to other domains where a spatial distribution of passive nodes in a flow field can be modeled.


Title: A Sensor-less Catheter Contact Force Estimation Approach in Endovascular Intervention Procedures*
Key Words: bending  blood vessels  catheters  finite element analysis  medical image processing  force estimation accuracy  endovascular intervention procedures  multiple catheter  sensor-less catheter contact force estimation approach  vessel wall  embolization  navigation process safety  robotic vascular interventions  sensor-less sensing solution  multiple contact point forces  image feedback  catheter-vessel interaction  real-time image processing algorithms  interaction contact points  image-based deflection measurement  nonlinear finite element beam model  three-point-bending tests  catheter-guidewire-vessel interaction contact forces  catheter-guidewire manipulation  bending modulus property  under-actuated catheter-guidewire  catheter-guidewire-vessel interaction  Catheters  Force  Robot sensing systems  Estimation  Force measurement  Phantoms  Finite element analysis 
Abstract: Catheter/guidewire manipulation in endovascu-lar intervention procedures are associated with risks of injury on vessel wall and embolization. Determination of catheter/guidewire-vessel interaction contact forces can improve the navigation process safety and efficiency which prevent injuries in both manual and robotic vascular interventions. This study proposes a sensor-less sensing solution to estimate multiple contact point forces at the side of catheter/guidewire exerted on the vasculature. This goal is achieved by using image feedback of catheter-vessel interaction and numerical finite element modeling (FEM). Real-time image processing algorithms are implemented to track interaction contact points on catheter/guidewire. Image-based deflection measurement and contact points tracking data are given to a nonlinear finite element beam model to estimate the forces. The variable equivalent bending modulus of the guidewire is found through a series of three-point-bending tests. To directly measure contact point forces, an experimental platform is prepared which simulates catheter/guidewire-vessel interaction with two, three and four contact points. The effectiveness of the proposed approach is tested in six scenarios in which force estimation accuracy of more than 87.9% is achieved. The proposed approach can be applied to various types of under-actuated catheter/guidewire in endovascular intervention procedures. This study proves that multiple catheter/guidewire side contact forces can be estimated by using the deflected shape and equivalent bending modulus property without embedding any force sensor.


Title: Pose Estimation and Map Formation with Spiking Neural Networks: towards Neuromorphic SLAM
Key Words: mixed analogue-digital integrated circuits  mobile robots  neural nets  neurophysiology  pose estimation  SLAM (robots)  pose estimation  spiking neural networks  neuromorphic SLAM  biologically inspired neuronal path integration  mobile robot  neuronal map formation architecture  simultaneous localization and mapping  mixed signal analog-digital neuromorphic hardware  ultra low-power neuromorphic hardware  robotic vehicle simulation  on-board plasticity  Neurons  Neuromorphics  Collision avoidance  Simultaneous localization and mapping  Synapses 
Abstract: In this paper, we investigate the use of ultra low-power, mixed signal analog/digital neuromorphic hardware for implementation of biologically inspired neuronal path integration and map formation for a mobile robot. We perform spiking network simulations of the developed architecture, interfaced to a simulated robotic vehicle. We then port the neuronal map formation architecture on two connected neuromorphic devices, one of which features on-board plasticity, and demonstrate the feasibility of a neuromorphic realization of simultaneous localization and mapping (SLAM).


Title: Virtual Occupancy Grid Map for Submap-based Pose Graph SLAM and Planning in 3D Environments
Key Words: graph theory  image reconstruction  mobile robots  path planning  pose estimation  robot vision  SLAM (robots)  3D scene reconstructions  virtual occupancy grid map  mobile robots  VOG-map  submap-based pose graph SLAM  underwater SLAM system  path planning  free space information  Simultaneous localization and mapping  Three-dimensional displays  Path planning  Robot kinematics  Casting 
Abstract: In this paper, we propose a mapping approach that constructs a globally deformable virtual occupancy grid map (VOG-map) based on local submaps. Such a representation allows pose graph SLAM systems to correct globally accumulated drift via loop closures while maintaining free space information for the purpose of path planning. We demonstrate use of such a representation for implementing an underwater SLAM system in which the robot actively plans paths to generate accurate 3D scene reconstructions. We evaluate performance on simulated as well as real-world experiments. Our work furthers capabilities of mobile robots actively mapping and exploring unstructured, three dimensional environments.


Title: Energetic Efficiency of a Compositional Controller on a Monoped With an Articulated Leg and SLIP Dynamics
Key Words: design engineering  energy conservation  legged locomotion  motion control  nonlinear control systems  optimal control  optimisation  pendulums  robot dynamics  springs (mechanical)  trajectory control  energetic efficiency  compositional controller  articulated leg  SLIP dynamics  dynamic legged robot locomotion control  jumping robots  Raibert-style controller  SLIP-Raibert approach  trajectory-optimized controller  robot design  spring loaded inverted pendulum  three-link monoped model  Legged locomotion  Aerospace electronics  Actuators  Dynamics  Optimization  Robot kinematics 
Abstract: Embedding the dynamics of the Spring Loaded Inverted Pendulum (SLIP) and applying a compositional controller around it can simplify dynamic legged robot locomotion control, but what is the energetic cost of this convenience? This paper measures the magnitude of this effect in such a way that the results are applicable to a wide class of jumping robots. A three-link monoped model with revolute joints is used to compare the energetic costs of locomotion using two different control approaches: 1) SLIP-embedding with a Raibert-style controller optimized for energetic efficiency, and 2) a trajectory optimized only for energetic efficiency. By performing this comparison in simulation for a large number of different monopeds randomly sampled from a space of realistic robot designs, it is found that the SLIP-Raibert approach requires, on average, almost twice the energy of the trajectory-optimized controller to traverse a given distance. Furthermore, the increase in energetic cost does not depend much on the particulars of the robot design, as the SLIP-Raibert approach requires at least 50% more energy for approximately 88% of realistic robot designs.


Title: Learning-based Walking Assistance Control Strategy for a Lower Limb Exoskeleton with Hemiplegia Patients
Key Words: adaptive control  dynamic programming  gait analysis  handicapped aids  iterative methods  learning (artificial intelligence)  medical robotics  motion control  multi-agent systems  patient rehabilitation  hemiplegia patient  lower limb exoskeleton  learning-based walking assistance control strategy  paraplegia patients  leader-follower multi-agent system  LF-MAS  reinforcement learning framework  policy iteration adaptive dynamic programming algorithm  PI-ADP algorithm  tracking control  Legged locomotion  Exoskeletons  Reinforcement learning  Control systems  Heuristic algorithms  Multi-agent systems  Cost function  Walking Assistance Strategy  Leader-Follower Multi-Agent System  Reinforcement Learning  Lower Exoskeleton  Hemiplegia 
Abstract: Lower exoskeleton has gained considerable interests in walking assistance applications for both paraplegia and hemiplegia patients. In walking assistance of hemiplegia patients, the exoskeleton should have the ability to control the affected leg to follow the unaffected leg's motion naturally. One critical issue of walking assistance for hemiplegia patients is how to adapt the controller of both lower limbs with different patients. This paper presents a novel learning-based walking assistance control strategy for lower exoskeleton with hemiplegia patients. In the proposed control strategy, we modeled the control system of lower exoskeleton with hemiplegia patient as a Leader-Follower Multi-Agent System (LF-MAS). In order to adapt different patients with different conditions, reinforcement learning framework is utilized to adapt controllers online. In reinforcement learning framework with LF-MAS, we employed a Policy Iteration Adaptive Dynamic Programming (PI-ADP) algorithm, which aims to achieve better tracking control performance for lower exoskeleton with hemiplegia patient. We demonstrate the efficiency of proposed learning-based walking assistance control strategy in an exoskeleton system with healthy subjects who simulate hemiplegia patients. Experimental results indicate that the proposed control strategy can adapt different pilots with good tracking performance.


Title: Uncertainty-based Online Mapping and Motion Planning for Marine Robotics Guidance
Key Words: autonomous underwater vehicles  path planning  probability  robot dynamics  vehicle dynamics  uncertainty-based framework  online computation constraints  motion planning  marine robotics guidance  robotic systems  safe path  underwater environments  autonomous vehicles  probabilistic safety  online mapping  Uncertainty  Safety  Planning  Probabilistic logic  Robot sensing systems  Vehicle dynamics 
Abstract: In real-world robotics, motion planning remains to be an open challenge. Not only robotic systems are required to move through unexplored environments, but also their manoeuvrability is constrained by their dynamics and often suffer from uncertainty. One approach to overcome this problem is to incrementally map the surroundings while, simultaneously, planning a safe and feasible path to a desired goal. This is especially critical in underwater environments, where autonomous vehicles must deal with both motion and environment uncertainties. In order to cope with these constraints, this work proposes an uncertainty-based framework for mapping and planning3 feasible motions online with probabilistic safety-guarantees. The proposed approach deals with the motion, probabilistic safety, and online computation constraints by (i) incrementally representing the environment as a collection of local maps, and (ii) iteratively (re)planning kinodynamically-feasible and probabilistically-safe paths to goal. The proposed framework is evaluated on the Sparus II, a nonholonomic torpedo-shaped AUV, by conducting simulated and real-world trials, thus proving the efficacy of the method and its suitability even for systems with limited on-board computational power.


Title: Heterogeneous Vehicles Routing for Water Canal Damage Assessment
Key Words: autonomous aerial vehicles  canals  graph theory  inspection  integer programming  irrigation  path planning  quadratic programming  vehicle routing  water canal damage assessment  irrigation water canals  manual inspection  shortened inspection time  reduced labor cost  automated inspection  road networks  path planning  UAV  unmanned aerial vehicles  ground vehicles  integer quadratic program  IQP  heterogeneous vehicle routing  Irrigation  Automobiles  Inspection  Roads  Planning  Batteries  Routing 
Abstract: In Japan, inspection of irrigation water canals has been mostly conducted manually. However, the huge demand for more regular inspections as infrastructure ages, coupled with the limited time window available for inspection, has rendered manual inspection increasingly insufficient. With shortened inspection time and reduced labor cost, automated inspection using a combination of unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs) and ground vehicles (cars) has emerged as an attractive alternative to manual inspection. In this paper, we propose a path planning framework that generates optimal plans for UAVs and cars to inspect water canals in a large agricultural area (tens of square kilometers). In addition to optimality, the paths need to satisfy several constraints, in order to guarantee UAV navigation safety and to abide by local traffic regulations. In the proposed framework, the canal and road networks are first modeled as two graphs, which are then partitioned into smaller subgraphs that can be covered by a given fleet of UAVs within one battery charge. The problem of finding optimal paths for both UAVs and cars on the graphs, subject to the constraints, is formulated as a integer quadratic program (IQP). The proposed framework can also quickly generate new plans when a current plan is interrupted. The effectiveness of the proposed framework is validated by simulation results showing the successful generation of plans covering all given canal segments, and the ability to quickly revise the plan when conditions change.


Title: Passive acoustic tracking for behavior mode classification between surface and underwater vehicles
Key Words: autonomous underwater vehicles  hydrophones  mobile robots  acoustic modems  vehicle state  communication line  submerged vehicles  hydrophone arrays  AUV mode estimates  dynamic time  simulation data  simulation-based classifier  bearing tracking data  passive tracking  TTI data  field array data  experiment data  surface vessels  AUV behavior  passive acoustic tracking  behavior mode classification  autonomous underwater vehicles  speed-of-light communication  AUV platforms  surface vehicle behavior  K-nearest-neighbor  Boats  Acoustics  Sea surface  Trajectory  Arrays  Data models  Sonar equipment 
Abstract: Autonomous underwater vehicles (AUVs) pose significant communication challenges: vehicles are submerged for periods of time in which speed-of-light communication is impossible. This is a particular problem on low-cost AUV platforms, on which acoustic modems are not available to get vehicle state or provide re-deploy commands. We investigate one possible method of providing operators with a communication line to these vehicles by using noise underwater to both classify behavior of submerged vehicles and to command them. In this scheme, processing of data from hydrophone arrays provide operators with AUV mode estimates and AUVs with surface vehicle behavior updates. Simulation studies were used to characterize trajectories for simple transect versus loiter behaviors based on the bearing and time to intercept (TTI). A classifier based on K-nearest-neighbor with dynamic time warping as a distance metric was used to classify simulation data. The simulation-based classifier was then applied to classify bearing tracking data from passive tracking of a loitering AUV and bearing and TTI data from passive tracking of a transecting boat based on field array data. Experiment data was classified with 76 % accuracy using bearing-only data, 96% accuracy for TTI -only data and 99 % accuracy for combined classification. The techniques developed here could be used for AUV cuing by surface vessels and monitoring of AUV behavior.


Title: Proactive Collision Avoidance for ASVs using A Dynamic Reciprocal Velocity Obstacles Method
Key Words: collision avoidance  marine vehicles  mobile robots  velocity control  reciprocal velocity obstacles framework  dynamic obstacles  collision avoidance decisions  international regulations  autonomous surface vessel  future behavior  interactive behavior  collision avoidance method  dynamic reciprocal velocity obstacles method  proactive collision avoidance  COLREGs  ASV behavior  complex dynamic models  RVO framework  predictive approach  Collision avoidance  Decision making  Propulsion  Uncertainty  Sensor systems  Computational modeling 
Abstract: We propose a collision avoidance method that incorporates the interactive behavior of agents and is proactive in dealing with the uncertainty of the future behavior of obstacles. The proposed method considers interactions that will be experienced by an autonomous surface vessel (ASV) in an environment governed by the international regulations for preventing collisions at sea (COLREGs). Our approach aims at encouraging dynamic obstacles to cooperate according to COLREGs. Therefore, we propose a strategy for assessing the cooperative behavior of obstacles, and the result of the assessment is used to adapt collision avoidance decisions within the Reciprocal Velocity Obstacles (RVO) framework. Moreover, we propose a predictive approach to solving known limitations of the RVO framework, and we present computationally feasible extensions that enable the use of complex dynamic models and objectives suitable for ASVs. We demonstrate the performance and potentials of our method through a simulation study, and the results show that the proposed method leads to proactive and more predictable ASV behavior compared with both Velocity Obstacles (VO) and RVO, especially when obstacles cooperate by following COLREGs.


Title: A Multi-Task Priority Framework for Redundant Robots with Multiple Kinematic Chains under Hard Joint and Cartesian Constraints
Key Words: redundant manipulators  multiple kinematic chains  hard joint  reverse priority framework  kinematic control  redundant robots  reverse priority method  robotic systems  bilateral constraints  unilateral constraints  multitask priority framework  joint priorities  Cartesian constraints  Task analysis  Kinematics  Jacobian matrices  Redundancy  End effectors 
Abstract: This paper introduces an extension of the reverse priority framework for the kinematic control of redundant robots. It integrates, in a unified framework, the treatment of multiple tasks, multiple kinematic chains, different joint priorities and hard constraints. The management of multiple tasks is based on the reverse priority method, that has been modified so that it makes possible the assignment of different priorities to each joint in order to accomplish the tasks. This framework is also suitable for robotic systems with multiple kinematic chains, which could share several joints. Moreover, it can deal with bilateral and unilateral constraints, that can be defined either at joint or cartesian space. Hard constraints are considered at each priority level, instead of treating them separately at the highest priority level. The proposed framework has been evaluated in simulation and in real experiments with a redundant underwater vehicle-manipulator system at sea.


Title: Vision-based Target Tracking for a Skid-steer Vehicle using Guided Policy Search with Field-of-view Constraint
Key Words: learning (artificial intelligence)  mobile robots  optimisation  remotely operated vehicles  robot dynamics  robot kinematics  robot vision  search problems  steering systems  target tracking  skid-steer vehicle  guided policy search  skid-type robot  local policy optimization  FOV constraint  vision-based tracking policy  skid-steer mobile robot  field-of-view constraint  vision-based target tracking method  end-to-end policy  pixel image data  deep reinforcement learning  kinematic slip model  Mobile robots  Training  Kinematics  Cameras  Target tracking  Wheels 
Abstract: This paper describes a vision-based target tracking method for a skid-steer vehicle. With the development of deep reinforcement learning, many researchers have tried to generate an end-to-end policy to control the mobile robot from a raw pixel image data. However, the action in most research only concerns high-level decisions such as go straight, turn left and right. High-level decisions alone are not sufficient to precisely control platforms such as a skid-steer vehicle due to the lack of steering mechanism. Thus, unlike existing work, we aim to control the motor command for the wheels directly. To this end, we employ guided policy search (GPS) based on the general kinematic slip model for the skid-type robot. Furthermore, to prohibit the target from getting out of the camera field of view (FOV) in the training phase, we update local policy optimization with a FOV constraint and perform a pre-training to make the initial policy more efficient. Our method allows the skid-type robot to automatically acquire the vision-based tracking policy while local policies satisfy the FOV constraint during the training phase. We evaluate our method through both simulation and experiment with a skid-steer mobile robot. Finally, we test the performance of learned policy with a moving target in a new environment.


Title: On the Kinematics of Wheeled Motion Control of a Hybrid Wheeled-Legged CENTAURO robot
Key Words: legged locomotion  motion control  robot kinematics  stability  wheels  wheeled-legged CENTAURO robot  real-world terrains  mobile platforms  versatile mobility  first-order inverse kinematics scheme  wheeled mobility  legged-wheeled motion kinematics control  wheels camber angles  legged-wheeled system stability  floating base model  legged-wheeled centaur-like robot  Legged locomotion  Wheels  Kinematics  Robot kinematics  Solid modeling 
Abstract: Legged-wheeled robots combine the advantages of efficient wheeled mobility with the adaptability to real-world terrains through the legged locomotion. Due to this hybrid mobility skill, they can excel in many application scenarios where other mobile platforms are not suitable for. However, their versatile mobility increases the number of constraints in their motion control where both the properties of legged and wheeled systems need to be considered. Relevant schemes for legged-wheeled platforms so far have been developed exploiting separate motion control of the wheeled and legged functionalities. This paper discusses the legged-wheeled motion kinematics without constraining the camber angles of the wheels, and it proposes a first-order inverse kinematics scheme that stabilizes the legged-wheeled system in the wheeled motion. Furthermore, the work adopts a floating base model that allows to easily incorporate the legged motion to the scheme. The developed controller is tested in simulation and experiments on a legged-wheeled centaur-like robot - CENTAURO.


Title: Tire Force Estimation of Dynamic Wheeled Mobile Robots using Tire-Model Based Constrained Kalman Filtering
Key Words: automobiles  feedback  friction  gears  Kalman filters  mobile robots  robot dynamics  tyres  wheels  wheel encoders  tire-road interaction  estimation algorithm  three-dimensional individual tire forces  dynamic wheeled mobile robots  tire-model based constrained Kalman filtering  tire force real-time estimation  tire force estimation techniques  car-like rearwheel-driven four wheel wheeled mobile robots  onboard navigation sensors  feedback  tire-road friction coefficient  torque inputs  differential gear  CarSim  Tires  Wheels  Force  Estimation  Dynamics  Sensors  Friction 
Abstract: We propose a novel real-time algorithm to estimate the full three-dimensional individual tire forces (i.e., vertical, longitudinal as well as lateral) of a car-like rearwheel-driven four wheel wheeled mobile robots equipped with onboard navigation sensors and wheel encoders. The key enabling idea for this is to utilize the tire model (i.e., the magic formula) in a feedback manner on the framework of the constrained Kalman filtering to render the tire force estimation: 1) more accurate as compared to the typical tire force estimation techniques neglecting the tire-road interaction; and 2) more robust as compared to the results adopting the tire model, yet, only in an open-loop manner. Our proposed algorithm, while performing this full tire force onboard/real-time estimation, also provides the estimation of: 1) tire-road friction coefficient; and 2) torque inputs of the rear left and right wheels, which are connected via differential gear. Simulations with CarSim and outdoor experiments are performed to validate the proposed estimation algorithm.


Title: Kinematic Morphing Networks for Manipulation Skill Transfer
Key Words: affine transforms  image morphing  iterative methods  manipulators  motion control  neural nets  robot vision  kinematic model  robot motions  robot skill  manipulation skill transfer  kinematic morphing networks  affine transformations  map depth image observations  deep neural network  Kinematics  Three-dimensional displays  Robot sensing systems  Prototypes  Neural networks  Solid modeling 
Abstract: The transfer of a robot skill between different geometric environments is non-trivial since a wide variety of environments exists, sensor observations as well as robot motions are high-dimensional, and the environment might only be partially observed. We consider the problem of extracting a low-dimensional description of the manipulated environment in form of a kinematic model. This allows us to transfer a skill by defining a policy on a prototype model and morphing the observed environment to this prototype. A deep neural network is used to map depth image observations of the environment to morphing parameter, which include transformations and configurations of the prototype model. Using the concatenation property of affine transformations and the ability to convert point clouds to depth images allows to apply the network in an iterative manner. The network is trained on data generated in a simulator and on augmented data that is created with its own predictions. The algorithm is evaluated on different tasks, where it is shown that iterative predictions lead to a higher accuracy than one-step predictions.


Title: Distributed Deep Reinforcement Learning based Indoor Visual Navigation
Key Words: indoor environment  indoor navigation  learning (artificial intelligence)  mobile robots  object detection  path planning  robot vision  complicated environment scene  motor control command  navigation task  large-scale indoor complex environment  pre-constructed map  indoor environment  complex spatial perception possible  indoor space  complex navigation path  aforementioned large-scale environment  real environments  distributed deep reinforcement learning based indoor visual navigation  Navigation  Visualization  Task analysis  Training  Reinforcement learning  Robots  Indoor environments  deep reinforcement learning  visual navigation 
Abstract: Recently, as the rise of deep reinforcement learning, it not only can help the robot to convert the complicated environment scene to motor control command directly but also can accomplish the navigation task properly. In this paper, we propose a novel structure, where the objective is to achieve navigation in large-scale indoor complex environment without pre-constructed map. Generally, it requires good understanding of such indoor environment to make complex spatial perception possible, especially when the indoor space consists of many walls and doors which might block the view of robot leading to complex navigation path. By the proposed distributed deep reinforcement learning in different local regions, our method can achieve indoor visual navigation in the aforementioned large-scale environment without extra map information and human instruction. In the experiments, we validate our proposed method by conducting highly promising navigation tasks both in simulation and real environments.


Title: Target Localization with Drones using Mobile CNNs
Key Words: aerospace robotics  decision theory  learning (artificial intelligence)  Markov processes  search problems  target localization  accurate visual search  effective search strategies  observation models  latest developments  mobile platforms  policy search  point based methods  POMDP framework  single basketball  perception modules  error characteristics  control algorithm  realistic parameters  fast search strategy  longer search time  real data  error rates  false positive rates  false negative rates  visual search strategies  drone platform  robust algorithm  mobile CNN  Drones  Sensors  Search problems  Data collection  Computational modeling  Delays  Visualization 
Abstract: Fast and accurate visual search is an enabler for many applications of drones. Prior works use POMDPs to produce effective search strategies. As the observation models are from heuristics, the robustness of these approaches on the field is unclear. This work builds a testbed that combines latest developments in related areas, including mobile CNNs for inference on mobile platforms and policy search with point based methods, in a POMDP framework. A dataset for a simple but realistic application, search for a single basketball, is collected to train the perception modules, investigate their error characteristics and validate the control algorithm. From simulation using realistic parameters, we found the significant role persistent factors in the environment can play in designing a fast search strategy. Failure to taking these factors into account results in up to 60% longer search time at the same success rate. Our empirical tests using mobile CNN and real data reveals that prior assumptions on error rates as functions of heights are wrong. The errors grows non-linearly, and there is significant between false positive and false negative rates. Our findings shed new lights on what to consider in designing visual search strategies in a drone platform and is one step towards a fast and robust algorithm.


Title: An Adjustable Force Sensitive Sensor with an Electromagnet for a Soft, Distributed, Digital 3-axis Skin Sensor
Key Words: distributed sensors  electromagnets  foams  force measurement  force sensors  magnetic field measurement  magnetic sensors  microcontrollers  microsensors  skin  3-axis force sensor  soft distributed digital 3-axis skin sensor  integrated microcontroller  adjustable force sensitive sensor  magnetic field strength  soft foam  3-axis magnetic sensor  planar electromagnet  Robot sensing systems  Sensitivity  Magnetometers  Magnetic separation  Coils  Force 
Abstract: Typically, the range and sensitivity of force sensors are determined during production. However, to be able to do both delicate and high-force demanding work, adjustable force sensitivity would be beneficial. The current paper proposes such a sensor by implementing a planar electromagnet above a 3-axis magnetic sensor, separated by soft foam. Furthermore, the sensor has digital output with an integrated microcontroller. The magnetic field strength with varying currents is examined in simulation, and the field changes according to displacements are investigated both in simulation and with the actual sensor. A prototype 3-axis force sensor is implemented and the relationship between the magnetic field change and the corresponding applied force is also investigated. It could be shown that the sensitivity of the sensor to displacements, as well as force, can indeed be adjusted.


Title: Modeling and Control of an Articulated Tail for Maneuvering a Reduced Degree of Freedom Legged Robot
Key Words: actuators  feedback  hardware-in-the loop simulation  legged locomotion  linearisation techniques  motion control  robot dynamics  leg mechanisms  quadruped robot  dynamic tail motions  robotic system design  outer loop controller  articulated tail mechanism  inner loop controller  tail prototype  dynamic modeling control  articulated robotic tail  maneuvering  legged robotic systems  reduced degree of freedom legged robot  hardware-in-the-loop experiments  quadruped platform simulation  feedback linearization maps  Legged locomotion  Robot kinematics  Foot  Dynamics  Task analysis  Manipulators 
Abstract: This paper presents dynamic modeling and control of an articulated robotic tail to maneuver and stabilize a reduced degree-of-freedom (DOF) quadruped robot. Conventional legged robotic systems consist of leg mechanisms that provide simultaneous propulsion, maneuvering and stabilization. However, in nature animals have been observed to utilize their tails to assist the legs in multiple tasks. Similarly, by incorporating an articulated tail onboard a quadruped robot, dynamic tail motions can be used to aid maneuvering. Therefore, tail implementation can potentially lead to simplifications in design and control of the legged robot since the legs will be responsible for only propulsion tasks. In this paper, a robotic system design consisting of an articulated tail and quadruped robot system is presented. Dynamic models are derived to analyze an optimal tail mass and length ratio to enhance inertial adjustment applications and develop an outer loop controller to plan tail trajectories for desired maneuvering applications. Results of analytical optimization are corroborated with measured data from biological animals. To decouple the dynamics of the articulated tail mechanism an inner loop controller using feedback linearization maps the desired behavior to the actuator inputs. This approach is validated using hardware-in-the-loop experiments with tail prototype in conjunction with simulated quadruped platform. Results demonstrate the capabilities of the articulated tail in enabling precise left and right turning (maneuvering).


Title: SLIP-Model-Based Dynamic Motion Transition Between Different Fixed Points in One Stride in a Leg-Wheel Transformable Robot
Key Words: force control  legged locomotion  motion control  nonlinear control systems  pendulums  stable running motion  stable fixed-point trajectories  ordinary SLIP model  passive spring  leg-spring stiffness  fixed-point trajectory  multistride transition  leg-wheel transformable robot  SLIP-model-based dynamic motion transition  motion generation strategy  force control  TurboQuad  Legged locomotion  Springs  Robot kinematics  Mathematical model  Dynamics  DC motors 
Abstract: We report on the development of a motion generation strategy that allows the robot to transit from one stable running motion to another in one stride by actively changing leg stiffness in real time. Stable motion of the robot is generated based on the stable fixed-point trajectories of the spring-loaded inverted pendulum (SLIP) model. While the transition of the ordinary SLIP model with fixed parameters gradually converges if stable, a robot that uses force control to simulate the passive spring of the SLIP can actively modulate leg-spring stiffness. This enables the robot to switch instantly to another fixed-point trajectory of the SLIP model without going through multi-stride transition. The proposed method is implemented on a leg-wheel transformable robot, TurboQuad, and is evaluated experimentally. The results confirm that the robot can successfully transit between different fixed-point trajectories.


Title: A Framework for Modeling Closed Kinematic Chains with a Focus on Legged Robots
Key Words: legged locomotion  robot kinematics  singularly perturbed systems  legged robots  MATLAB framework  dynamic modeling simulation  legged locomotive mechanisms  fixed-base systems  singular perturbation theory  CKC mechanisms  dynamic monopedal gait  closed kinematic chains  floating-base systems  functional API  Mathematical model  Legged locomotion  Kinematics  Software  Computational modeling  Couplings 
Abstract: This paper presents the foundations of a MATLAB framework for dynamic modeling and simulation of closed kinematic chain (CKC) mechanisms, with a particular focus on implementation with legged locomotive mechanisms. As such, the framework supports both floating-base and fixed-base systems. Through the use of singular perturbation theory, various CKC mechanisms can be modeled so that constraint errors asymptotically converge to zero, thus avoiding the numerical drift that plagues commonly used methods. A functional API and the relevant core commands necessary to construct a model are presented. Two robotic legs incorporating CKC mechanisms are utilized as case studies, and simulations of each leg performing a dynamic monopedal gait are illustrated.


Title: Adaptive Task Planner for Performing Home Service Tasks in Cooperation with a Human
Key Words: humanoid robots  human-robot interaction  image colour analysis  image sensors  path planning  robot vision  sequence network  episodic memory  user behaviors  task scheduler schedules  executable behavior  alternative behavior sequence  failed behavior problem  wheel-based humanoid robot  adaptive task planner  home service task  temporal sequence  fast forward planner  sequence to sequence network  Task analysis  Robot sensing systems  Robot kinematics  Planning  Generators  Thermal sensors 
Abstract: To perform a home service task through cooperation with a human in a real environment, a robot needs to deal with the environmental changes and accordingly plan appropriate behavior sequence. For this purpose, in this paper, we propose an adaptive task planner which is based on memory and reasoning. A robot perceives user behaviors and objects using an RGB-depth and thermal sensor. The robot stores a temporal sequence of behaviors for performing a task in its episodic memory that is realized by a sequence to sequence network. When the user command is given, the episodic memory is used to retrieve the behavior sequence to carry out the command. On the other hand, when the robot perceives user behaviors, the robot postpones its behavior till his/her behavior is stopped. Once stopped, the episodic memory retrieves the behavior sequence to conduct a task that the user has intended. A task scheduler schedules the behavior sequence from the memory and sends it to an internal simulator. The internal simulator confirms the behavior sequence to be executable and then if executable, it sends the next executable behavior to the execution module. If a behavior fails in the internal simulation test, fast forward planner generates an alternative behavior sequence to resolve the failed behavior problem. The effectiveness and applicability of the proposed planner is demonstrated by a wheel-based humanoid robot.


Title: Relative and inertial attitude determination in three-vehicle long formations
Key Words: attitude control  attitude measurement  inertial navigation  mobile robots  multi-robot systems  inertial attitude  three-vehicle long formations  attitude determination problem  three-vehicle formation  independent inertial measurement  attitude relations  relative attitude  inertial candidates  constrained formations  sensor noise  Position measurement  Sensors  Extraterrestrial measurements  Visualization  Estimation  Space vehicles  Navigation 
Abstract: This paper addresses a new attitude determination problem for formations. It considers a three-vehicle formation with relative and inertial measurements from sensors, where Constraints limit the relative measurements, which are not available between two of the vehicles, also known as deputies. The other vehicle is called the chief and does not have any limitation. Furthermore, each of the vehicles has an independent inertial measurement, whose references are known. The goal is to determine all attitude relations, both inertial and relative. The solution for this problem is divided into different stages. First, the relative attitude between the chief and the deputies is assessed, which results in two candidates for each of these relations. Then, each candidate yields a candidate for the inertial attitude of the chief. Next, comparing the four inertial candidates gives the solution for their respective relations and consequently for the relative relations as well. The remaining relations derive directly from those already known. The paper also provides some early insights about degeneracies, possible particular cases of the solution, and the effect of sensor noise. Finally, the solution is validated with a simulation, whose results are similar to attitude determination problems in constrained formations.


Title: Image Based Visual Servoing for Tumbling Objects
Key Words: feature extraction  image reconstruction  mobile robots  pose estimation  robot vision  visual servoing  image based visual servoing  image plane  elliptical track  feature points  image space  feature error  explicit reconstruction  uncooperative tumbling object  robotic system  inertial axis  tumbling motion  Visual servoing  Cameras  Feature extraction  Estimation  Solid modeling  Satellites 
Abstract: Objects in space often exhibit a tumbling motion around the major inertial axis. In this paper, we address the image based visual servoing of a robotic system towards an uncooperative tumbling object. In contrast to previous approaches that require explicit reconstruction of the object and an estimation of its velocity, we propose a novel controller that is able to minimize the feature error directly in image space. This is achieved by observing that the feature points on the tumbling object follow a circular path around the axis of rotation and their projection creates an elliptical track in the image plane. Our controller minimizes the error between this elliptical track and the desired features, such that at the desired pose the features lie on the circumference of the ellipse. The effectiveness of our framework is exhibited by implementing the algorithm in simulation as well on a mobile robot.


Title: Workspace Aware Online Grasp Planning
Key Words: end effectors  path planning  reachable end-effector configurations  unique end-effector poses  workspace aware online grasp planning  reachable grasps  Planning  Robots  Trajectory  Measurement  Kinematics  Grasping  Databases 
Abstract: This work provides a framework for a workspace aware online grasp planner. This framework greatly improves the performance of standard online grasp planning algorithms by incorporating a notion of reachability into the online grasp planning process. Offline, a database of hundreds of thousands of unique end-effector poses were queried for feasibility. At runtime, our grasp planner uses this database to bias the hand towards reachable end-effector configurations. The bias keeps the grasp planner in accessible regions of the planning scene so that the resulting grasps are tailored to the situation at hand. This results in a higher percentage of reachable grasps, a higher percentage of successful grasp executions, and a reduced planning time. We also present experimental results using simulated and real environments.


Title: Tactile Regrasp: Grasp Adjustments via Simulated Tactile Transformations
Key Words: convolutional neural nets  grippers  manipulators  motion control  path planning  robot vision  tactile regrasp  simulated tactile transformations  tactile sensing  regrasp action  local transformations  grasp quality metric  deep convolutional neural network  rigid-body transformations  grasp quality network  grasp actions  tactile measurements  grasp adjustments  regrasp control policy  tactile imprints  robot motions  Grasping  Measurement  Tactile sensors  Grippers 
Abstract: This paper presents a novel regrasp control policy that makes use of tactile sensing to plan local grasp adjustments. Our approach determines regrasp actions by virtually searching for local transformations of tactile measurements that improve the quality of the grasp. First, we construct a tactile-based grasp quality metric using a deep convolutional neural network trained on over 2800 grasps. The quality of each grasp, a continuous value between 0 and 1, is determined experimentally by measuring its resistance to external perturbations. Second, we simulate the tactile imprints associated with robot motions relative to the initial grasp by performing rigid-body transformations of the given tactile measurements. The newly generated tactile imprints are evaluated with the learned grasp quality network and the regrasp action is chosen to maximize the grasp quality. Results show that the grasp quality network can predict the outcome of grasps with an average accuracy of 85% on known objects and 75% on novel objects. The regrasp control policy improves the success rate of grasp actions by an average relative increase of 70% on a test set of 8 objects. We provide a video summarizing our approach at https://youtu.be/gjn7DmfpwDk.


Title: Reinforcement Learning with Symbolic Input-Output Models
Key Words: autoregressive processes  learning systems  optimal control  regression analysis  state-space methods  reinforcement learning  symbolic input-output models  dynamic prediction model  RL algorithms  nonlinear autoregressive with exogenous input  symbolic regression  parsimonious models  symbolic input-output process model  state-space models  Robots  Springs  Data models  Computational modeling  Optimal control  Reinforcement learning  Process control  Model learning  symbolic regression  reinforcement learning  optimal control 
Abstract: It is well known that reinforcement learning (RL) can benefit from the use of a dynamic prediction model which is learned on data samples collected online from the process to be controlled. Most RL algorithms are formulated in the state-space domain and use state-space models. However, learning state-space models is difficult, mainly because in the vast majority of problems the full state cannot be measured on the system or reconstructed from the measurements. To circumvent this limitation, we propose to use input-output models of the NARX (nonlinear autoregressive with exogenous input) type. Symbolic regression is employed to construct parsimonious models and the corresponding value functions. Thanks to this approach, we can learn accurate models and compute optimal policies even from small amounts of training data. We demonstrate the approach on two simulated examples, a hopping robot and a 1-DOF robot arm, and on a real inverted pendulum system. Results show that our proposed method can reliably determine a good control policy based on a symbolic input-output process model and value function.


Title: Automated Tuning of Nonlinear Model Predictive Controller by Reinforcement Learning
Key Words: autonomous aerial vehicles  control engineering computing  iterative methods  learning (artificial intelligence)  nonlinear control systems  predictive control  trajectory control  nonlinear MPC  trajectory tracking control  aerial robots  NMPC weights  automated tuning  nonlinear model predictive controller  reinforcement learning  nontrivial weight tuning process  generic user-independent framework  trial-and-error method  iterative Gazebo simulations  standard desktop computer  Tuning  Rotors  Computational modeling  Optimization  Aerodynamics  Iron  Reinforcement learning 
Abstract: One of the major challenges of model predictive control (MPC) for robotic applications is the non-trivial weight tuning process while crafting the objective function. This process is often executed using the trial-and-error method by the user. Consequently, the optimality of the weights and the time required for the process become highly dependent on the skill set and experience of the user. In this study, we present a generic and user-independent framework which automates the tuning process by reinforcement learning. The proposed method shows competency in tuning a nonlinear MPC (NMPC) which is employed for trajectory tracking control of aerial robots. It explores the desirable weights within less than an hour in iterative Gazebo simulations running on a standard desktop computer. The real world experiments illustrate that the NMPC weights explored by the proposed method result in a satisfactory trajectory tracking performance.


Title: Motion Planning Among Dynamic, Decision-Making Agents with Deep Reinforcement Learning
Key Words: collision avoidance  learning (artificial intelligence)  mobile robots  path planning  safe operation  deep reinforcement learning  complex interactions  environment increases  dynamic agents  particular behavior rules  arbitrary number  motion planning  decision-making agents  collision avoidance algorithms  Collision avoidance  Robots  Training  Decision making  Heuristic algorithms  Sensors  Navigation 
Abstract: Robots that navigate among pedestrians use collision avoidance algorithms to enable safe and efficient operation. Recent works present deep reinforcement learning as a framework to model the complex interactions and cooperation. However, they are implemented using key assumptions about other agents' behavior that deviate from reality as the number of agents in the environment increases. This work extends our previous approach to develop an algorithm that learns collision avoidance among a variety of types of dynamic agents without assuming they follow any particular behavior rules. This work also introduces a strategy using LSTM that enables the algorithm to use observations of an arbitrary number of other agents, instead of previous methods that have a fixed observation size. The proposed algorithm outperforms our previous approach in simulation as the number of agents increases, and the algorithm is demonstrated on a fully autonomous robotic vehicle traveling at human walking speed.


Title: Real-Time Workload Classification during Driving using HyperNetworks
Key Words: cognition  medical signal processing  pattern classification  recurrent neural nets  signal classification  traffic engineering computing  m-HyperLSTM  mixture hyper long short term memory networks  cognitive demands  data variability  robotics  physiological signals  behavioral signals  human cognitive states  eye-gaze pattern dataset  HyperNetworks  real-time cognitive workload classification  sensor artefacts  Adaptation models  Data models  Physiology  Task analysis  Real-time systems  Robot sensing systems 
Abstract: Classifying human cognitive states from behavioral and physiological signals is a challenging problem with important applications in robotics. The problem is challenging due to the data variability among individual users, and sensor artefacts. In this work, we propose an end-to-end framework for real-time cognitive workload classification with mixture Hyper Long Short Term Memory Networks (m-HyperLSTM), a novel variant of HyperNetworks. Evaluating the proposed approach on an eye-gaze pattern dataset collected from simulated driving scenarios of different cognitive demands, we show that the proposed framework outperforms previous baseline methods and achieves 83.9% precision and 87.8% recall during test. We also demonstrate the merit of our proposed architecture by showing improved performance over other LSTM-based methods.


Title: Augmenting Physical Simulators with Stochastic Neural Networks: Case Study of Planar Pushing and Bouncing
Key Words: Gaussian processes  learning (artificial intelligence)  neural nets  state estimation  robot state estimation  planar pushing  ball bouncing  analytical rigid-body simulator  model uncertainty  symbolic simulators  stochastic neural networks  generalizable physical simulator  universal uncertainty estimates  analytical learned simulators  Gaussian processes  object trajectories  Analytical models  Predictive models  Physics  Data models  Uncertainty  Engines  Neural networks 
Abstract: An efficient, generalizable physical simulator with universal uncertainty estimates has wide applications in robot state estimation, planning, and control. In this paper, we build such a simulator for two scenarios, planar pushing and ball bouncing, by augmenting an analytical rigid-body simulator with a neural network that learns to model uncertainty as residuals. Combining symbolic, deterministic simulators with learnable, stochastic neural nets provides us with expressiveness, efficiency, and generalizability simultaneously. Our model outperforms both purely analytical and purely learned simulators consistently on real, standard benchmarks. Compared with methods that model uncertainty using Gaussian processes, our model runs much faster, generalizes better to new object shapes, and is able to characterize the complex distribution of object trajectories.


Title: Learning to Pour using Deep Deterministic Policy Gradients
Key Words: learning (artificial intelligence)  robots  domestic environments  industrial environments  pre-defined heights  liquid dynamics  PR2 robot  learned policy  fundamental skill  deep deterministic policy gradients  liquid simulator  Liquids  Training  Task analysis  Reinforcement learning  Service robots  Trajectory 
Abstract: Pouring is a fundamental skill for robots in both domestic and industrial environments. Ideally, a robot should be able to pour with high accuracy to specific, pre-defined heights and without spilling. However, due to the complex dynamics of liquids, it is difficult to learn how to pour to achieve these goals. In this paper we present an approach to learn a policy for pouring using Deep Deterministic Policy Gradients (DDPG). We remove the need for collecting training experiences on a real robot, by using a state-of-the-art liquid simulator, which allows for learning the liquid dynamics. We show through our experiments, performed with a PR2 robot, that it is possible to successfully transfer the learned policy to a real robot and even apply it to different liquids.


Title: Learning Sample-Efficient Target Reaching for Mobile Robots
Key Words: gradient methods  learning (artificial intelligence)  mobile robots  path planning  self-supervised policy gradient algorithm  unsupervised auxiliary tasks  sparse range-finder measurements  convolutional networks  network architecture  sparse reward problem  robots uncertainty  unsupervised tasks  mobile robots  planning problem  sample-efficient target reaching learning  Task analysis  Robot sensing systems  Planning  Encoding  Uncertainty  Training 
Abstract: In this paper, we propose a novel architecture and a self-supervised policy gradient algorithm, which employs unsupervised auxiliary tasks to enable a mobile robot to learn how to navigate to a given goal. The dependency on the global information is eliminated by providing only sparse range-finder measurements to the robot. The partially observable planning problem is addressed by splitting it into a hierarchical process. We use convolutional networks to plan locally, and a differentiable memory to provide information about past time steps in the trajectory. These modules, combined in our network architecture, produce globally consistent plans. The sparse reward problem is mitigated by our modified policy gradient algorithm. We model the robots uncertainty with unsupervised tasks to force exploration. The novel architecture we propose with the modified version of the policy gradient algorithm allows our robot to reach the goal in a sample efficient manner, which is orders of magnitude faster than the current state of the art policy gradient algorithm. Simulation and experimental results are provided to validate the proposed approach.


Title: Heterogeneous Sensor-Robot Team Positioning and Mixed Strategy Scheduling
Key Words: game theory  multi-robot systems  scheduling  sensor placement  simulated annealing  heterogeneous sensor-robot team positioning  mixed strategy scheduling  effector robots  anticipated arrival traffic  adversarial game  sensor positions  anticipated potential arrival paths  uniform power schedule  adaptive simulated annealing  Robot sensing systems  Schedules  Robot kinematics  Games  Linear programming 
Abstract: We are faced with the problem of optimally placing a heterogeneous team of sensors and effector robots in an area while taking into account the environment, anticipated arrival traffic, and desired power consumption of the team. We stage the problems of anticipating arrival traffic and determining a proper power schedule as an adversarial game, incorporating our analysis of the game in the objective function which evaluates sensor positions. We obtain the set of sensor positions which performs best at the desired power consumption, evaluating the mixed strategy of sensor activity that best counters the anticipated potential arrival paths. To determine an approximate global optima for a large number of heterogeneous nodes, we employ Adaptive Simulated Annealing (ASA) to ensure our algorithm is flexible over a varied range of scenarios. We compare the proposed algorithm to a gradient-based greedy placement algorithm with a uniform power schedule within simulation.


Title: Mobile Robot Localization Considering Class of Sensor Observations
Key Words: collision avoidance  mobile robots  localization robustness  environment dynamics  robots  sensor observations  mapped obstacles  observation model  unmapped obstacles  real-world mobile robot navigation competition  mobile robot localization  Robot sensing systems  Mathematical model  Robustness  Hidden Markov models  Mobile robots  Collision avoidance 
Abstract: Localization robustness against environment dynamics is significant for robots to achieve autonomous navigation in unmodified environments. A basic method of improving the robustness of a robot is considering the sensor observations obtained from mapped obstacles and using them for localizing the robot's pose. This study proposes an observation model that considers the class of sensor observations, where “class” categorizes the sensor observations as those obtained from mapped and unmapped obstacles. In the proposed approach, the robot's pose and the class are estimated simultaneously. As a result, the robot's pose can be localized using the sensor observations obtained only from mapped obstacles. First, we evaluated the performance of the proposed approach using simulations. Further, we tested the proposed approach in a real-world mobile robot navigation competition, called “Tsukuba Challenge,” held in Japan. The robustness and effectiveness of the proposed approach against environment dynamics were verified from the experimental results.


Title: A B-Spline Mapping Framework for Long-Term Autonomous Operations
Key Words: image representation  image sensors  mobile robots  navigation  path planning  robot vision  SLAM (robots)  splines (mathematics)  landmark-based maps  robotics community  high frequency sensor  B-spline curves  B-spline maps  mapping algorithm  2D B-spline mapping framework  outdoor long-term autonomous operations  simultaneous localization and mapping  SLAM algorithm  software-in-the-loop simulations  Splines (mathematics)  Simultaneous localization and mapping  Three-dimensional displays  Robot kinematics  Two dimensional displays 
Abstract: This paper presents a 2D B-spline mapping framework for representing unstructured environments in a compact manner. While occupancy-grid and landmark-based maps have been successfully employed by the robotics community in indoor scenarios, outdoor long-term autonomous operations require a more compact representation of the environment. This work tackles this problem by interpolating the data of a high frequency sensor using B-spline curves. Compared to lines and circles, splines are more powerful in the sense that they allow for the description of more complex shapes in the scene. In this work, spline curves are continuously tracked and aligned across multiple sensor readings using lightweight methods, making the proposed framework suitable for robot navigation in outdoor missions. In particular, a Simultaneous Localization and Mapping (SLAM) algorithm specifically tailored for B-spline maps is presented here. The efficacy of the proposed framework is demonstrated by Software-in-the-Loop (SiL) simulations in different scenarios.


Title: Directional Grid Maps: Modeling Multimodal Angular Uncertainty in Dynamic Environments
Key Words: collision avoidance  human-robot interaction  mobile robots  optical radar  path planning  probability  directional grid maps  occupancy map  mobile robot  robotic arm  static environments  dynamic objects  safer navigation  human-robot interaction  directional statistics  robotic mapping  model circular data  angular motion  probability measure-field  angular variations  indoor environments  outdoor environments  dynamic environments  grid maps  multimodal angular uncertainty  Vehicle dynamics  Robot sensing systems  Data models  Uncertainty  Navigation 
Abstract: Robots often have to deal with the challenges of operating in dynamic and sometimes unpredictable environments. Although an occupancy map of the environment is sufficient for navigation of a mobile robot or manipulation tasks with a robotic arm in static environments, robots operating in dynamic environments demand richer information to improve robustness, efficiency, and safety. For instance, in path planning, it is important to know the direction of motion of dynamic objects at various locations of the environment for safer navigation or human-robot interaction. In this paper, we introduce directional statistics into robotic mapping to model circular data. Primarily, in collateral to occupancy grid maps, we propose directional grid maps to represent the location-wide long-term angular motion of the environment. Being highly representative, this defines a probability measure-field over the longitude-latitude space rather than a scalar-field or a vector-field. Withal, we further demonstrate how the same theory can be used to model angular variations in the spatial domain, temporal domain, and spatiotemporal domain. We carried out a series of experiments to validate the proposed models using a variety of robots having different sensors such as RGB cameras and LiDARs on simulated and real-world settings in both indoor and outdoor environments.


Title: Development of a Musculoskeletal Humanoid Robot as a Platform for Biomechanical Research on the Underwater Dolphin Kick
Key Words: biomechanics  bone  humanoid robots  kinematics  mobile robots  motion control  muscle  swimming style  musculoskeletal humanoid robot  Triton  flexible spine  erector spinae muscles  stiffness adjustment system  lumbar joints  musculoskeletal body  multijoint coordination  pneumatic muscles  lightweight properties  inherently waterproof properties  human swimming  musculoskeletal swimming robot  joint angle  thrust force  biomechanical research  underwater dolphin kick  Muscles  Dolphins  Force  Legged locomotion  Sports 
Abstract: The dolphin kick is a swimming style characterized by undulation of the body. As a platform for swimming research, we have developed a musculoskeletal humanoid robot called Triton. Triton has a flexible spine with erector spinae muscles and a stiffness adjustment system for lumbar joints. The musculoskeletal body includes biarticular and polyarticular muscles, providing multi-joint coordination. The robot is actuated by pneumatic muscles, yielding lightweight and inherently waterproof properties. The compliance of the joints allows interactions between body and fluid similar to those of human swimming. This study presents the design concept of Triton and experimental results from a water tank test. We compare the results with simulation and human movements reported in literature. The results show that the musculoskeletal swimming robot has similar cycle trends in joint angle and thrust force.


Title: An Assist-as-Needed Velocity Field Control Scheme for Rehabilitation Robots
Key Words: control system synthesis  feedback  medical robotics  neural nets  patient rehabilitation  stability  velocity control  rehabilitation robots  neural network term  dead-zone function  feedback control term  bounded control command  AAN scheme  controller design  assist-as-needed velocity field control scheme  proportional-like feedback term  forgetting factor  lower-limb exoskeleton  NN component  system stability  Artificial neural networks  Timing  Aerospace electronics  Rehabilitation robotics  Stability analysis  Exoskeletons  Rehabilitation robots  assist-as-need control  neural network  exoskeleton 
Abstract: This paper addresses the problem of assist-as-needed (AAN) control for rehabilitation robots. To achieve a motion which is not explicitly a function of time, the velocity field control is considered in this paper. The proposed new controller consists of a proportional-like feedback term and a neural network (NN) term, where the later is exploited to compensate for the dynamic uncertainties of the system. The AAN property is facilitated by means of a dead-zone function in the feedback control term and a forgetting factor in the adaptation law of NN component. The designed controller guarantees the stability of the system with a bounded control command. The performance of the proposed AAN scheme is validated through the simulation and experiment conducted on a lower-limb exoskeleton.


Title: Robot Controllers Compatible with Human Beam Balancing Behavior
Key Words: angular momentum  biocontrol  biomechanics  legged locomotion  mechanoception  motion control  pendulums  stability  human beam balancing behavior  challenging motor skill  upright balance  stability  humans  narrow beam  lower-body angular momentum  interlimb coordination  balance controller  robotics literature  robot controllers  balancing controllers  Robot kinematics  Foot  Task analysis  Legged locomotion  Correlation  Exoskeletons 
Abstract: Standing on a beam is a challenging motor skill that requires the regulation of upright balance and stability. In this paper, we analyzed the behavior of humans balancing on a narrow beam without footwear. The results revealed high anti-correlation between lumped upper- and lower-body angular momentum. Despite differences in gross measures of balance, interlimb coordination was consistent between the novice and expert subjects, suggesting that both performances could be described with the same balance controller. By simulating a double inverted pendulum model utilizing different balancing controllers described in the robotics literature, we identified that the whole behavior observed from humans standing on a beam was best replicated with controllers that predominantly utilized hip actuation.


Title: Risk-Based Human-Aware Multi-Robot Coordination in Dynamic Environments Shared with Humans
Key Words: human-robot interaction  Kalman filters  mobile robots  multi-robot systems  path planning  risk analysis  trajectory control  risk-based human-aware multirobot coordination  dynamic environments  human-populated environments  Kalman filter  position estimation  MRTA problem  human trajectory prediction  multirobot task allocation problem  human-aware navigation  risk-based bids  risk-based human-aware planning  human-agnostic planning  prediction error  Robot kinematics  Task analysis  Navigation  Planning  Uncertainty  Estimation 
Abstract: In this paper, we propose a risk-based coordination method for the Multi-Robot Task Allocation (MRTA) problem in human-populated environments. We introduce risk-based bids that incorporate human trajectory prediction uncertainties and furthermore, social costs in their formulation. We demonstrate the effectiveness of including a predictive component in the risk formulation despite the lack of accurate position estimation for humans through an extensive suite of experiments. This is done by means of testing different levels of prediction error for known human trajectories and in a separate approach, using a Kalman filter for human trajectory estimation. Furthermore, we propose different risk formulations and evaluate their performance in a high-fidelity simulator. Additionally, a comparative study targeting human-agnostic planning at both navigation and planning levels, human-aware navigation and planning based on deterministic costs, and risk-based human-aware planning with no individual human-aware navigation has been conducted. Results confirm that risk-based bids lead to more socially acceptable team plans that reduce the need for the lower level individual human-aware navigation to be activated. Risk-based plans accounting for social costs prevent difficult social situations that can lead to less effective human-aware navigation, such as traversing narrow passages occupied by humans.


Title: Just-in-Time Emergency Trajectories: A Formulation Towards Safety in Autonomous Navigation
Key Words: collision avoidance  emergency management  mobile robots  motion control  multi-robot systems  trajectory control  safe navigation  safe motion controls  emergency trajectory candidates  just-in-time emergency trajectories  autonomous navigation  vehicle operation  safe system state  MHTP  moving horizon trajectory planner  safety requirements  vehicle's local control system  differential-drive mobile agent  nonstatic environment  robot  Trajectory  Safety  Navigation  Robots  Vehicle dynamics  Planning  Collision avoidance 
Abstract: Emergency trajectories enable one to move faster through an environment while still moving safely. Having an emergency trajectory within an observed vacant space makes it possible to safely navigate through unknown territory or through a door without slowing down. Emergency trajectories allow for safe navigation of a vehicle into a safe system state, e.g. a stop, in the event of recognition of an obstacle. This work formally proves the benefit of using emergency trajectories to generate safe and faster motion controls as compared to vehicle operation without such trajectories. Furthermore, this work also presents a working integration of this formalism into a vehicle's low level control system in a Moving Horizon Trajectory Planner (MHTP) with an update rate of 10Hz. Using an MHTP along with a dynamic model of the environment and the proposed constraints, the system is able to derive emergency trajectory candidates which fulfill our safety requirements. This distinguishes the approach from that of others, which replans discrete paths that are then followed by the vehicle's local control system. This approach was implemented on a differential-drive mobile agent and tested using non-static environment assumptions. Simulated and real-robot experimental results illustrate the quality of our approach.


Title: Identifying Driver Behaviors Using Trajectory Features for Vehicle Navigation
Key Words: automobiles  behavioural sciences computing  driver information systems  feature extraction  Internet  mobile robots  vehicle trajectories  autonomous vehicles  car trajectories  data-driven mapping  vehicle navigation simulation system  driver behavior identification  Web-based user study  Trajectory  Navigation  Automobiles  Feature extraction  Measurement  Acceleration 
Abstract: We present a novel approach to automatically identify driver behaviors from vehicle trajectories and use them for safe navigation of autonomous vehicles. We propose a novel set of features that can be easily extracted from car trajectories. We derive a data-driven mapping between these features and six driver behaviors using an elaborate web-based user study. We also compute a summarized score indicating a level of awareness that is needed while driving next to other vehicles. We also incorporate our algorithm into a vehicle navigation simulation system and demonstrate its benefits in terms of safer realtime navigation, while driving next to aggressive or dangerous drivers.


Title: Preliminary Evaluation of Null-Space Dynamic Process Model Identification with Application to Cooperative Navigation of Underwater Vehicles
Key Words: least squares approximations  marine communication  parameter estimation  position control  underwater vehicles  vehicle dynamics  UV model parameters  control-surface parameters  thruster-model parameters  preliminary evaluation  null-space dynamic process model identification  underactuated underwater vehicle  control-input parameters  UV nonlinear plant-model parameters  nonlinear model identification  underwater communication  cooperative navigation  null-space least-squares parameter identification method  Navigation  Vehicle dynamics  Acoustics  Underwater vehicles  Heuristic algorithms  Kinematics  Kalman filters 
Abstract: This paper reports a method and preliminary evaluation of a novel null-space least-squares parameter identification method for a fully nonlinear second -order 6-degree-of-freedom (DOF) dynamic process model of an underactuated underwater vehicle (UV) for which both the model parameters and the control-input parameters are unknown. This paper further reports the application of the identified plant models in combined underwater communication and navigation (cooperative navigation) of UVs. We report an approach to model identification that simultaneously identifies 6-DOF UV nonlinear plant-model parameters, control-surface parameters, and thruster-model parameters. We believe this approach is suitable for identifying plant model parameters from data obtained in full-scale experimental trials of UVs in controlled motion. The reported approach to nonlinear model identification of UVs is evaluated in simulation studies. The resulting identified UV plant models are further evaluated in simulated cooperative navigation missions of the UV that are representative of high-precision survey missions. To the best of our knowledge, this paper reports the first method to identify 6-DOF UV model parameters, control-surface parameters, and thruster-model parameters simultaneously.


Title: Interactive Robotic Manipulation of Elastic Objects
Key Words: collision avoidance  elastic deformation  finite element analysis  force control  manipulators  robot kinematics  sensitivity analysis  simulation  interactive simulation-based control methodology  interactive robotic manipulation  finite element method  sensitivity analysis  mathematical model  robots configuration  collision avoidance  elastic deformation objects  quasistatic assumption  Robots  Computational modeling  Shape  Collision avoidance  Mathematical model  Strain  Finite element analysis 
Abstract: In this paper, we address the challenge of robotic manipulation of elastically deforming objects. To this end, we model elastic objects using the Finite Element Method. Through a quasi-static assumption, we leverage sensitivity analysis to mathematically model how changes in the robot's configuration affect the deformed shape of the object being manipulated. This enables an interactive, simulation-based control methodology, wherein user-specified deformations for the elastic objects are automatically mapped to joint angle commands. The optimization formulation we introduce is general, operates directly within a robot's workspace and can readily incorporate joint limits as well as collision avoidance between the links. We validate our control methodology on a YuMi® IRB 14000, which we use to manipulate a variety of elastic objects.


Title: Domain Randomization and Generative Models for Robotic Grasping
Key Words: grippers  learning (artificial intelligence)  neural nets  planning (artificial intelligence)  probability  domain randomization  generative models  deep learning-based robotic grasping  significant progress thanks  algorithmic improvements  increased data availability  state-of-the-art models  unique object instances  result generalization  novel data generation pipeline  deep neural network  successful grasps  autoregressive grasp planning model  probability distribution  possible grasps  sample grasps  test time  model architecture  unseen realistic objects  random objects  real-world grasp  random simulated objects  Grasping  Training  Data models  Computational modeling  Robot sensing systems  Neural networks 
Abstract: Deep learning-based robotic grasping has made significant progress thanks to algorithmic improvements and increased data availability. However, state-of-the-art models are often trained on as few as hundreds or thousands of unique object instances, and as a result generalization can be a challenge. In this work, we explore a novel data generation pipeline for training a deep neural network to perform grasp planning that applies the idea of domain randomization to object synthesis. We generate millions of unique, unrealistic procedurally generated objects, and train a deep neural network to perform grasp planning on these objects. Since the distribution of successful grasps for a given object can be highly multimodal, we propose an autoregressive grasp planning model that maps sensor inputs of a scene to a probability distribution over possible grasps. This model allows us to sample grasps efficiently at test time (or avoid sampling entirely). We evaluate our model architecture and data generation pipeline in simulation and the real world. We find we can achieve a >90% success rate on previously unseen realistic objects at test time in simulation despite having only been trained on random objects. We also demonstrate an 80% success rate on real-world grasp attempts despite having only been trained on random simulated objects.


Title: Jacquard: A Large Scale Dataset for Robotic Grasp Detection
Key Words: belief networks  CAD  computer vision  grippers  image classification  image representation  learning (artificial intelligence)  object recognition  robot vision  solid modelling  robotic grasp detection  grasping skill  real-life applications  state-of-the-art robotic  deep neural networks  robotics  scale synthetic dataset  ground truth  Jacquard grasping dataset  CAD models dataset  successful grasping positions  grasp attempts  grasping robot trials  generalization skills  Jacquard dataset  grasping position detections  human labeled dataset  CNN  RGB-D images  ShapeNet  Solid modeling  Grippers  Robot kinematics  Grasping  Data models  Neural networks 
Abstract: Grasping skill is a major ability that a wide number of real-life applications require for robotisation. State-of-the-art robotic grasping methods perform prediction of object grasp locations based on deep neural networks. However, such networks require huge amount of labeled data for training making this approach often impracticable in robotics. In this paper, we propose a method to generate a large scale synthetic dataset with ground truth, which we refer to as the Jacquard grasping dataset. Jacquard is built on a subset of ShapeNet, a large CAD models dataset, and contains both RGB-D images and annotations of successful grasping positions based on grasp attempts performed in a simulated environment. We carried out experiments using an off-the-shelf CNN, with three different evaluation metrics, including real grasping robot trials. The results show that Jacquard enables much better generalization skills than a human labeled dataset thanks to its diversity of objects and grasping positions. For the purpose of reproducible research in robotics, we are releasing along with the Jacquard dataset a web interface for researchers to evaluate the successfulness of their grasping position detections using our dataset.


Title: Grid-Based Motion Planning Using Advanced Motions for Hexapod Robots
Key Words: graph theory  legged locomotion  motion control  path planning  grid-based motion planning  advanced motions  hexapod robots  motion planning framework  chimney walking  robot motion  hierarchical planning framework  custom-designed Corin hexapod  environment surfaces  Legged locomotion  Planning  Trajectory  Collision avoidance  Robot motion 
Abstract: This paper presents the motion planning framework for a hexapod, based on advanced motions, for accessing challenging spaces, namely narrow pathways and large holes, both of which are surrounded by walls. The advanced motions, wall and chimney walking, utilise environment surfaces that are perpendicular to the ground plane to support the robot motion. Such techniques have not yet been studied in the literature. The hierarchical planning framework proposed here is an extension to existing approaches which have only considered ground walking where foothold contacts are confined to the ground plane. During the pre-processing phase of the 2.5D grid map, the motion primitives employed are assessed for each cell and stacked to the graph if valid. The A* algorithm is then used to find a path to the goal position. Following that, the path is post-processed to smoothen the motions and generate a continuous path. Footholds are then selected along the path. The framework has been evaluated in simulation on the custom-designed Corin hexapod. The resulting path enables access to areas that are previously thought to be inaccessible and reduces the travelling distance compared to previous studies.


Title: End to End Vehicle Lateral Control Using a Single Fisheye Camera
Key Words: automobiles  cameras  collision avoidance  convolutional neural nets  mobile robots  robot vision  steering systems  label augmentation  short range fisheye camera  open road driving  single fisheye camera  convolutional neural networks  steering angle  autonomous cars  end-to-end control evaluation  end-to-end vehicle lateral control  urban road  sharp turns  obstacle avoidance  data augmentation  Automobiles  Cameras  Roads  Training  Neural networks  Testing 
Abstract: Convolutional neural networks are commonly used to control the steering angle for autonomous cars. Most of the time, multiple long range cameras are used to generate lateral failure cases. In this paper we present a novel model to generate this data and label augmentation using only one short range fisheye camera. We present our simulator and how it can be used as a consistent metric for lateral end-to-end control evaluation. Experiments are conducted on a custom dataset corresponding to more than 10000 km and 200 hours of open road driving. Finally we evaluate this model on real world driving scenarios, open road and a custom test track with challenging obstacle avoidance and sharp turns. In our simulator based on real-world videos, the final model was capable of more than 99% autonomy on urban road.


Title: Online Temporal Calibration for Monocular Visual-Inertial Systems
Key Words: calibration  cameras  inertial systems  motion estimation  optimisation  robot vision  sensor fusion  SLAM (robots)  monocular visual-inertial systems  accurate state estimation  intelligent applications  robot navigation  autonomous driving  virtual reality  augmented reality  visual fusion  inertial fusion  sensor fusion  visual measurements  inertial measurements  IMU states  SLAM system  feature-based optimization frameworks  Cameras  Sensors  Delays  Calibration  Visualization  Clocks  Three-dimensional displays 
Abstract: Accurate state estimation is a fundamental module for various intelligent applications, such as robot navigation, autonomous driving, virtual and augmented reality. Visual and inertial fusion is a popular technology for 6-DOF state estimation in recent years. Time instants at which different sensors' measurements are recorded are of crucial importance to the system's robustness and accuracy. In practice, timestamps of each sensor typically suffer from triggering and transmission delays, leading to temporal misalignment (time offsets) among different sensors. Such temporal offset dramatically influences the performance of sensor fusion. To this end, we propose an online approach for calibrating temporal offset between visual and inertial measurements. Our approach achieves temporal offset calibration by jointly optimizing time offset, camera and IMU states, as well as feature locations in a SLAM system. Furthermore, the approach is a general model, which can be easily employed in several feature-based optimization frameworks. Simulation and experimental results demonstrate the high accuracy of our calibration approach even compared with other state-of-art offline tools. The VIO comparison against other methods proves that the online temporal calibration significantly benefits visual-inertial systems. The source code of temporal calibration is integrated into our public project, VINS-Mono1.


Title: Modular Sensor Fusion for Semantic Segmentation
Key Words: image segmentation  learning (artificial intelligence)  sensor fusion  statistical analysis  training sets  single modality segmentation results  statistical models  competitive performance  statistical fusion approaches  aligned multisensor training data  specific architecture  semantic segmentation approaches  current multisensor deep learning  real-world operations  perceptual range  robotic systems  fundamental process  modular sensor fusion  Semantics  Image segmentation  Robot sensing systems  Training  Fuses  Computer architecture 
Abstract: Sensor fusion is a fundamental process in robotic systems as it extends the perceptual range and increases robustness in real-world operations. Current multi-sensor deep learning based semantic segmentation approaches do not provide robustness to under-performing classes in one modality, or require a specific architecture with access to the full aligned multi-sensor training data. In this work, we analyze statistical fusion approaches for semantic segmentation that overcome these drawbacks while keeping a competitive performance. The studied approaches are modular by construction, allowing to have different training sets per modality and only a much smaller subset is needed to calibrate the statistical models. We evaluate a range of statistical fusion approaches and report their performance against state-of-the-art baselines on both realworld and simulated data. In our experiments, the approach improves performance in IoU over the best single modality segmentation results by up to 5%. We make all implementations and configurations publicly available.


Title: Approximate Distributed Spatiotemporal Topic Models for Multi-Robot Terrain Characterization
Key Words: learning (artificial intelligence)  mobile robots  multi-robot systems  oceanographic equipment  optimisation  underwater equipment  unsupervised learning  distributed spatiotemporal topic models  real seabed imagery  multirobot underwater terrain characterization  local robot topic distributions  local topic model  multirobot distributed learning  marine robots  multirobot teams  multiple robots  single-robot topic models  learned models  unsupervised models  raw data  latent structure  Bayesian topic models  unsupervised learning techniques  multirobot terrain characterization  Adaptation models  Robot sensing systems  Spatiotemporal phenomena  Data models  Visualization  Mathematical model 
Abstract: Unsupervised learning techniques, such as Bayesian topic models, are capable of discovering latent structure directly from raw data. These unsupervised models can endow robots with the ability to learn from their observations without human supervision, and then use the learned models for tasks such as autonomous exploration, adaptive sampling, or surveillance. This paper extends single-robot topic models to the domain of multiple robots. The main difficulty of this extension lies in achieving and maintaining global consensus among the unsupervised models learned locally by each robot. This is especially challenging for multi-robot teams operating in communication-constrained environments, such as marine robots. We present a novel approach for multi-robot distributed learning in which each robot maintains a local topic model to categorize its observations and model parameters are shared to achieve global consensus. We apply a combinatorial optimization procedure that combines local robot topic distributions into a globally consistent model based on topic similarity, which we find mitigates topic drift when compared to a baseline approach that matches topics naïvely, We evaluate our methods experimentally by demonstrating multi-robot underwater terrain characterization using simulated missions on real seabed imagery. Our proposed method achieves similar model quality under bandwidth-constraints to that achieved by models that continuously communicate, despite requiring less than one percent of the data transmission needed for continuous communication.


Title: On the Use of Energy Tanks for Multi-Robot Interconnection
Key Words: mobile robots  multi-robot systems  robust control  energy tank  multirobot systems passive interconnections  robustly stable cooperative behavior  passivity constraint  novel generalized interconnection  passive systems  coupled system  Couplings  Damping  Robots  Multi-robot systems  Robust stability  Buildings  Nonlinear dynamical systems 
Abstract: In multi-robot systems passive interconnections among agents are often exploited to achieve a desired and robustly stable cooperative behavior. Nevertheless, the passivity constraint limits the kinds of behaviors that can be achieved. In this paper, we exploit the concept of energy tank for building a novel generalized interconnection that allows to impose any kind of dynamic coupling between two passive systems in a flexible way while preserving the passivity of the overall coupled system. The proposed strategy is validated by simulations and experiments.


Title: Visibility-Based Monitoring of a Path Using a Heterogeneous Robot Team
Key Words: aerospace robotics  dynamic programming  integer programming  linear programming  mobile robots  multi-robot systems  path planning  visibility-based monitoring  heterogeneous robot team  terrain path  aerial robots  route planning  dynamic programming approach  integer linear programming solution  ground robots  Unmanned aerial vehicles  Robot sensing systems  Educational robots  Monitoring  Dynamic programming  Integrated circuits 
Abstract: We address the problem of visually monitoring a terrain path using ground and aerial robots. This is a coupled problem that involves computation of a guard set for the environment and route planning for a heterogeneous group of robots through the points in the guard set. A terrain path that needs to be monitored can be transformed to generate a 1.5D terrain and robot paths can be modeled as chain visible curves to the terrain to ensure visibility. To efficiently monitor this 1.5D terrain, we present two solutions - a dynamic programming approach that finds the optimal solution but is slower and a integer linear programming solution that is faster in practice and that can take more constraints into account. We perform extensive simulations and do a comparative analysis of the two solution techniques.


Title: Stable, Autonomous, Unknown Terrain Locomotion for Quadrupeds Based on Visual Feedback and Mixed-Integer Convex Optimization
Key Words: convex programming  integer programming  legged locomotion  motion control  path planning  quadratic programming  robot vision  visual feedback  mixed-integer convex optimization  complete motion planning approach  quadruped locomotion  convex polygons  potentially feasible foothold regions  feasible destination planner  extracted polygons  footstep planner  mass trajectory planner  path planner  stable terrain locomotion  autonomous terrain locomotion  unknown terrain locomotion  quadrupeds  feasible goal position  ALPHRED  Optimization  Trajectory  Legged locomotion  Planning  Three-dimensional displays 
Abstract: This paper presents a complete motion planning approach for quadruped locomotion across an unknown terrain using a framework based on mixed-integer convex optimization and visual feedback. Vision data is used to find convex polygons in the surrounding environment, which acts as potentially feasible foothold regions. Then, a goal position is initially provided, which the best feasible destination planner uses to solve for an actual feasible goal position based on the extracted polygons. Next, a footstep planner uses the feasible goal position to plan a fixed number of footsteps, which may or may not result in the robot reaching the position. The center of mass (COM) trajectory planner using quadratic programming is extended to solve for a trajectory in 3D space while maintaining convexity, which reduces the computation time, allowing the robot to plan and execute motions online. The suggested method is implemented as a policy rather than a path planner, but its performance as a path planner is also shown. The approach is verified on both simulation and on a physical robot, ALPHRED, walking on various unknown terrains.


Title: Learning Hardware Dynamics Model from Experiments for Locomotion Optimization
Key Words: control engineering computing  learning (artificial intelligence)  legged locomotion  motion control  optimisation  pendulums  robot dynamics  locomotion optimization  hardware compatibility  hardware-compatible motion plan  linear inverted pendulum  ZMP  hardware dynamics model learning  zero moment point  LIP  center of mass  quadruped  Hardware  Optimization  Dynamics  Legged locomotion  Data models  Solid modeling 
Abstract: The hardware compatibility of legged locomotion is often illustrated by Zero Moment Point (ZMP) that has been extensively studied for decades. One of the most popular models for computing the ZMP is the linear inverted pendulum (LIP) model that expresses ZMP as a linear function of the center of mass(COM) and its acceleration. In the real world, however, it may not accurately predict the true ZMP of hardware due to various reasons such as unmodeled dynamics and differences between simulation model and hardware. In this paper, we aim to improve the theoretical ZMP model by learning the real hardware dynamics from experimental data. We first optimize the motion plan using the theoretical ZMP model and collect COP data by executing the motion on a force plate. We then train a new ZMP model that maps the motion plan variable to the actual ZMP and use the learned model for finding a new hardware-compatible motion plan. Through various locomotion tasks of a quadruped, we demonstrate that motions planned for the learned ZMP model are compatible on hardware when those for the theoretical ZMP model are not. Furthermore, experiments using ZMP models with different complexities reveal that overly complex models may suffer from over-fitting even though they can potentially represent more complex, unmodeled dynamics.


Title: Iterative Learning of Energy-Efficient Dynamic Walking Gaits
Key Words: iterative methods  learning systems  legged locomotion  motion control  robot dynamics  energy-efficient dynamic walking gaits  dynamic walking robots  lifelike locomotion  efficient gaits  Iterative Learning Control  control signal  periodic reference  terminal ILC  dynamic walking robot gaits  final foot placement  energy efficiency  phase-indexed TILC  energy-efficient walking motion  time-indexed TILC  Legged locomotion  Computational modeling  Data models  Foot  Planning  Convergence 
Abstract: Dynamic walking robots have the potential for efficient and lifelike locomotion, but computing efficient gaits and tracking them is difficult in the presence of under-modeling. Iterative Learning Control (ILC) is a method to learn the control signal to track a periodic reference over several attempts, augmenting a model with online data. Terminal ILC (TILC), a variant of ILC, allows other performance objectives to be addressed at the cost of ignoring parts of the reference. However, dynamic walking robot gaits are not necessarily periodic in time. In this paper, we adapt TILC to jointly optimize final foot placement and energy efficiency on dynamic walking robots by indexing by a phase variable instead of time, yielding “phase-indexed TILC” (θ - TILC). When implemented on a five-link walker in simulation, θ- TILC learns a more energy-efficient walking motion compared to traditional time-indexed TILC.


Title: Trajectory Optimization of Robot-Assisted Endovascular Catheterization with Reinforcement Learning
Key Words: blood vessels  cardiovascular system  catheters  diagnostic radiography  learning (artificial intelligence)  manipulator dynamics  medical image processing  medical robotics  mobile robots  path planning  patient treatment  surgery  telerobotics  catheter manipulation  learning-based robotic catheterization platform  dynamic movement primitives  catheterization tasks  customized robotic manipulator  robotic trajectories  catheter tip  hands-on robotic navigation platforms  trajectory optimization  robot-assisted endovascular catheterization  flow simulations  X-ray radiation reduction  path integral RL  path integral reinforcement learning  Robots  Catheters  Task analysis  Catheterization  Surgery  Trajectory  Navigation 
Abstract: Emerging robot-assisted endovascular intervention has the potential to reduce X-ray radiations to the operator while enhancing the stability and dexterity of catheter manipulation. Supervised and shared autonomy of endovascular procedures could add further improvements in reduced fatigue and cognitive workloads of the operator, higher success rates of cannulation and improved surgical outcomes. However, robotic path planning for endovascular procedure is challenging due to complex and non-linear flow dynamics inside the vasculature. This paper presents a learning-based robotic catheterization platform addressing those challenges, this approach incorporates path integral reinforcement learning (RL) framework based on dynamic movement primitives (DMP) to enhance catheterization tasks by a customized robotic manipulator. The robotic trajectories were optimized through RL in order to avoid unwanted contacts between the catheter tip and the vessel wall. The proposed methods can adapt to different flow simulations, vascular models, and catheterization tasks. The quality of the catheterization was evaluated with performance metrics. The results show significant refinement of catheter paths by the proposed approach, resulting in shorter overall lengths and fewer contact forces, which can potentially reduce risks in endothelial wall damages, embolization, and stroke. The results support the development of robotic path planning for endovascular procedures as well as designing intelligent, hands-on robotic navigation platforms.


Title: A Novel Shared Position Control Method for Robot Navigation Via Low Throughput Human-Machine Interfaces
Key Words: mobile robots  motion control  path planning  position control  user interfaces  wheelchairs  shared position control method  inference parallelization  low throughput human-machine interfaces  robot navigation  robotic wheelchair  circular massless holonomic robot  robot motion  single switch interface  brain-computer interface  Navigation  Wheelchairs  Mobile robots  Position control  Linear systems  Throughput 
Abstract: In this paper, we analyze systems with low throughput human-machine interfaces (such as a brain-computer interface, single switch interface) from the controls perspective. We develop some principles for performance improvement in such systems based on the parallelization of inference and robot motion. The proposed principles are used to design a novel shared position control to navigate a circular massless holonomic robot in a known environment. The system is implemented in simulation and integrated with a real robotic wheelchair. Robot experiments demonstrated the viability of the proposed navigation method in various modes of operation.


Title: Semi-Supervised SLAM: Leveraging Low-Cost Sensors on Underground Autonomous Vehicles for Position Tracking
Key Words: cameras  learning (artificial intelligence)  mining  mining industry  mobile robots  object tracking  robot vision  SLAM (robots)  ORB-SLAM2  ground map locations  deep learning  position tracking  operational underground mining vehicles  single camera localization  map creation  mine environment  mining companies  underground environment  SemiSupervised SLAM  underground autonomous vehicles  low-cost sensors  Simultaneous localization and mapping  Cameras  Measurement  Grounding  Visual odometry  Lighting 
Abstract: This work presents Semi-Supervised SLAM - a method for developing a map suitable for coarse localization within an underground environment with minimal human intervention, with system characteristics driven by real-world requirements of major mining companies. This work leverages existing information common within a mining environment - namely a surveyed mine map - which is used to sparsely ground map locations within the mine environment, increasing map accuracy and allowing localization within a global frame. Map creation utilizes a low cost camera sensor and minimal user information to produce a map which can be used for single camera localization within a mining environment. We evaluate the localization capabilities of the proposed approach in depth by performing data collection on operational underground mining vehicles within an active underground mine and by simulating occlusions common to the environment such as dust and water. The proposed system is capable of producing maps which have an average localization error 2.5 times smaller than the next best performing method ORB-SLAM2, comparable localization performance to a state-of-the-art deep learning approach (which is not a feasible solution due to both compute and training requirements) and is robust to simulated environmental obscurants.


Title: Multi-Level Bayesian Decision-Making for Safe and Flexible Autonomous Navigation in Highway Environment
Key Words: Bayes methods  control engineering computing  decision making  navigation  probability  road safety  road traffic control  road vehicles  traffic engineering computing  TSLDN  driving situation assessment  vehicle navigation task  control architecture  probabilistic decision-making  safe navigation  flexible autonomous navigation  highway environment  MCA  multi-level Bayesian decision-making  multi-controller architecture  two-sequential level decision network  Extended Time-To-Collision metric  ETTC metric  Predicted Inter-Distance Profile  Safety  Decision making  Navigation  Trajectory  Road transportation  Uncertainty  Probabilistic logic 
Abstract: This paper proposes an overall Multi-Controller Architecture (MCA) for safe and flexible navigation of autonomous navigation, under uncertainties in highway use-cases. In addition to the details given about the main modules (and their interactions) composing the proposed MCA, an important focus of the paper is made on the definition of a robust Two-Sequential Level Decision Network (TSLDN), which uses both: Extended Time-To-Collision (ETTC) metric and a new definition of a specific Predicted Inter-Distance Profile (PIDP, between vehicles during lane changes maneuvers) in order to estimate the maneuvers risks. The TSLDN is utilized for: the driving situation assessment, decision-making and for safety retrospection over the current maneuver risk. It allows us to have the best decision to achieve the vehicle navigation task while maximizing its safety. Several simulation results show the good performance of the overall proposed control architecture, mainly in terms of efficiency to handle probabilistic decision-making even for very risky scenarios.


Title: Interaction-Aware Probabilistic Behavior Prediction in Urban Environments
Key Words: Bayes methods  belief networks  control engineering computing  driver information systems  inference mechanisms  Markov processes  mobile robots  Monte Carlo methods  probability  road vehicles  traffic engineering computing  combinatorial scene developments  road layouts  future scenes  probabilistic forward simulation  sequential Monte Carlo inference  single agents  context-dependent motion models  complete scene  dynamic Bayesian network  probabilistic prediction framework  mutual interaction  traffic rules  road-geometry  route intentions  traffic participants  urban scenarios  complex scenarios  autonomous driving  urban environments  interaction-aware probabilistic behavior prediction  interaction-unaware physics  real-world scenarios  Trajectory  Estimation  Vehicles  Probabilistic logic  Hidden Markov models  Predictive models  Bayes methods 
Abstract: Planning for autonomous driving in complex, urban scenarios requires accurate prediction of the trajectories of surrounding traffic participants. Their future behavior depends on their route intentions, the road-geometry, traffic rules and mutual interaction, resulting in interdependencies between their trajectories. We present a probabilistic prediction framework based on a dynamic Bayesian network, which represents the state of the complete scene including all agents and respects the aforementioned dependencies. We propose Markovian, context-dependent motion models to define the interaction-aware behavior of drivers. At first, the state of the dynamic Bayesian network is estimated over time by tracking the single agents via sequential Monte Carlo inference. Secondly, we perform a probabilistic forward simulation of the network's estimated belief state to generate the different combinatorial scene developments. This provides the corresponding trajectories for the set of possible, future scenes. Our framework can handle various road layouts and number of traffic participants. We evaluate the approach in online simulations and real-world scenarios. It is shown that our interaction-aware prediction outperforms interaction-unaware physics- and map-based approaches.


Title: Real-Time Grasp Planning for Multi-Fingered Hands by Finger Splitting
Key Words: grippers  iterative methods  learning (artificial intelligence)  optimisation  time grasp planning  multifingered hands  traditional planning methods  optimal parallel grasps  dual-stage iterative optimization  contact point optimization  finger splitting  Optimization  Planning  Grippers  Search problems  Grasping  Databases  Real-time systems 
Abstract: Grasp planning for multi-fingered hands is computationally expensive due to the joint-contact coupling, surface nonlinearities and high dimensionality, thus is generally not affordable for real-time implementations. Traditional planning methods by optimization, sampling or learning work well in planning for parallel grippers but remain challenging for multi-fingered hands. This paper proposes a strategy called finger splitting, to plan precision grasps for multi-fingered hands starting from optimal parallel grasps. The finger splitting is optimized by a dual-stage iterative optimization including a contact point optimization (CPO) and a palm pose optimization (PPO), to gradually split fingers and adjust both the contact points and the palm pose. The dual-stage optimization is able to consider both the object grasp quality and hand manipulability, address the nonlinearities and coupling, and achieve efficient convergence within one second. Simulation results demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed approach. The simulation video is available at [1].


Title: Online Learning of Body Orientation Control on a Humanoid Robot Using Finite Element Goal Babbling
Key Words: control engineering computing  finite element analysis  humanoid robots  learning (artificial intelligence)  optimisation  position control  robust control  finite element goal babbling  utility function maximization  Nao humanoid robot  robust control  online learning method  FEGB  body orientation control  time 20.0 min to 30.0 min  Task analysis  Aerospace electronics  Finite element analysis  Space exploration  Humanoid robots  Robot sensing systems 
Abstract: How can high dimensional robots learn general sets of skills from experience in the real world? Many previous approaches focus on maximizing a single utility function and require large datasets of experience to do this, something that is not possible to collect outside of simulation as every data point is expensive both in time and in a potential wear down of the robot. This paper addresses this question using a newly developed framework called Finite Element Goal Babbling (FEGB). FEGB is an online learning method that aims at providing general control over some measurable feature, in contrast to optimizing it to some given utility function. It generalizes standard goal babbling by breaking down the full learning problem into local sub-problems, and combining it with a planner that learns how to navigate between these subproblems. We test FEGB using a real humanoid robot Nao, and find that it could quickly learn to robustly control its body orientation. After only 20-30 minutes of training, the robot could freely move into any body orientation between lying on either side and on its back. Rapid learning of body orientation control in high dimensional real robots is largely an unexplored field of robotics, and although many challenges remain, FEGB shows a feasible approach to the problem.


Title: Cost Adaptation for Robust Decentralized Swarm Behaviour
Key Words: computer games  control engineering computing  decentralised control  learning (artificial intelligence)  multi-agent systems  multi-robot systems  optimisation  robot dynamics  cost adaptation  decentralized receding horizon control  multiagent settings  meta-learning process  mesh-networked swarm agents  adaptation mechanism  safer task completion  Unity3D game engine  D-RHC  robust decentralized swarm behaviour  Task analysis  Delays  Decision making  Cost function  Mesh networks  Control systems 
Abstract: Decentralized receding horizon control (D-RHC) provides a mechanism for coordination in multiagent settings without a centralized command center. However, combining a set of different goals, costs, and constraints to form an efficient optimization objective for D-RHC can be difficult. To allay this problem, we use a meta-learning process - cost adaptation - which generates the optimization objective for D-RHC to solve based on a set of human-generated priors (cost and constraint functions) and an auxiliary heuristic. We use this adaptive D-RHC method for control of mesh-networked swarm agents. This formulation allows a wide range of tasks to be encoded and can account for network delays, heterogeneous capabilities, and increasingly large swarms through the adaptation mechanism. We leverage the Unity3D game engine to build a simulator capable of introducing artificial networking failures and delays in the swarm. Using the simulator we validate our method on an example coordinated exploration task. We demonstrate that cost adaptation allows for more efficient and safer task completion under varying environment conditions and increasingly large swarm sizes. We release our simulator and code to the community for future work.


Title: A Universal Controller for Unmanned Aerial Vehicles
Key Words: aerodynamics  aerospace components  aircraft control  attitude control  autonomous aerial vehicles  helicopters  mobile robots  UAVs  agile fixed-wing aircraft  control logic  unmanned aerial vehicles  tilt-rotor  vehicle flight envelope  single physics-based controller  multicopters  autonomous flight  quadrotor  Force  Aircraft  Quaternions  Attitude control  Actuators 
Abstract: Unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs) have become popular in a wide range of applications, including many military and civilian uses. State of the art control strategies for these vehicles are typically limited to a portion of the vehicle's flight envelope, and are tailored to a specific type of platform. This article presents a single physics-based controller capable of aggressive maneuvering for the majority of UAVs. The controller is applicable to UAVs with the ability to apply a force along a body-fixed direction, and a moment about an arbitrary axis, which includes UAVs such as multi-copters, conventional fixed-wing, agile fixed-wing, flying-wing with two thrusters, most tailsitters, and some tilt-rotor/wing platforms. We demonstrate autonomous flight for a quadrotor and agile fixed-wing aircraft in a simulation environment. To specifically demonstrate the extreme maneuvering capability of the control logic, we perform a rolling flip with the quadrotor and an aggressive turnaround with the fixed-wing aircraft, all using a single controller with a single set of gains.


Title: Passive Compliance Control of Aerial Manipulators
Key Words: aerospace components  compliance control  end effectors  force control  manipulators  position control  time domain passivity technique  passive compliance control  aerial manipulators  stable environmental interactions  body-planar directions  aerial vehicle  manipulator  Manipulator dynamics  End effectors  Dynamics  Unmanned aerial vehicles  Mathematical model  Task analysis 
Abstract: This paper presents a passive compliance control for aerial manipulators to achieve stable environmental interactions. The main challenge is the absence of actuation along body-planar directions of the aerial vehicle which might be required during the interaction to preserve passivity. The controller proposed in this paper guarantees passivity of the manipulator through a proper choice of end-effector coordinates, and that of vehicle fuselage is guaranteed by exploiting time domain passivity technique. Simulation studies validate the proposed approach.


Title: Guidance Laws for Partially-Observable Interception Based on Linear Covariance Analysis
Key Words: aerospace control  autonomous aerial vehicles  covariance analysis  differential games  optimal control  differential game  linear covariance analysis  maneuvers  resulting guidance law  guidance laws  pursuit-evasion games  partial measurements  visual sensing  bearing measurements  partially-observable interception problem  observability  Observability  Games  Uncertainty  Mathematical model  Vehicle dynamics  Extraterrestrial measurements  Task analysis 
Abstract: We consider pursuit-evasion games in which the pursuer is tasked with intercepting the evader using only partial measurements. Motivated by the utilization of visual sensing on board the pursuer, we focus on the case when only bearing measurements are available to the pursuer. The resulting partially-observable interception problem is computationally challenging, and the separation principle does not hold in general. In this paper, we identify a set of maneuvers that improve observability, and we propose an algorithm that utilizes these maneuvers to move the pursuer so that the expected payoff of the differential game is maximized. The algorithm uses in-the-loop uncertainty propagation based on linear covariance analysis to assess the effect of the maneuvers. We evaluate the resulting guidance law in experiments involving a quadcopter in flight representing the pursuer, and a simulated evader.


Title: MMAC Height Control System of a Quadrotor for Constant Unknown Load Transportation
Key Words: adaptive control  control system synthesis  helicopters  Kalman filters  linear quadratic control  motion sensors  quadrotor  multimodel adaptive controller  LQR  IMU  motion sensors  state variables  constant unknown load transportation  MMAC height control system  ultrasound height sensor  Kalman filter  Gravity  Estimation  Sensors  Kalman filters  Computational modeling  Control systems  Transportation 
Abstract: This paper presents a methodology for height control of a quadrotor that transports a constant unknown load, given the estimates on both weight and state variables, based on measurements from motion sensors installed on-board. The proposed control and estimation framework is a Multi-Model Adaptive Controller using LQR with integrative action and Kalman filter with integrative component. The control system obtained is validated both in simulation and experimentally, resorting to an off-the-shelf commercially available quadrotor equipped with an IMU, an ultrasound height sensor, and a barometer, among other sensors.


Title: SwarmTouch: Tactile Interaction of Human with Impedance Controlled Swarm of Nano-Quadrotors
Key Words: aircraft control  autonomous aerial vehicles  human-robot interaction  microrobots  multi-robot systems  path planning  tactile sensors  trajectory control  impedance controlled swarm  nanoquadrotors  novel interaction strategy  human-swarm communication  human operator guides  quadrotors  impedance control  human hand velocity  formation shape  Crazyflie 2.0 quadrotor platform  control algorithm  tactile patterns  controllability  complex life-like formation  tactile sensation  drone formation  human-swarm interaction  swarm navigation  Impedance  Drones  Robots  Mathematical model  Shape  Force  Safety 
Abstract: We propose a novel interaction strategy for a human-swarm communication when a human operator guides a formation of quadrotors with impedance control and receives vibrotactile feedback. The presented approach takes into account the human hand velocity and changes the formation shape and dynamics accordingly using impedance interlinks simulated between quadrotors, which helps to achieve a life-like swarm behavior. Experimental results with Crazyflie 2.0 quadrotor platform validate the proposed control algorithm. The tactile patterns representing dynamics of the swarm (extension or contraction) are proposed. The user feels the state of the swarm at his fingertips and receives valuable information to improve the controllability of the complex life-like formation. The user study revealed the patterns with high recognition rates. Subjects stated that tactile sensation improves the ability to guide the drone formation and makes the human-swarm communication much more interactive. The proposed technology can potentially have a strong impact on the human-swarm interaction, providing a new level of intuitiveness and immersion into the swarm navigation.


Title: Design and Implementation of a Novel Aerial Manipulator with Tandem Ducted Fans
Key Words: aerospace testing  aircraft control  autonomous aerial vehicles  compensation  control system synthesis  fans  feedforward  helicopters  manipulator dynamics  stability  vehicle dynamics  aerial vehicle dynamics  manipulator dynamics  tandem ducted fans  trafficability  comprehensive integrated dynamic model  aerial manipulator  loading  multirotor  multilayer composite controller  feedforward compensation  flight tests  Manipulator dynamics  Fans  Payloads  Helicopters  Ducts 
Abstract: This paper proposes a novel aerial manipulator with tandem ducted fans, which takes both trafficability and effective loading into account. The aerial manipulator is particularly suitable for grasping in complex and narrow environment, in which traditional multi-rotor and helicopter would be inaccessible. The comprehensive integrated dynamic model is established by taking the aerial vehicle dynamics and manipulator dynamics as a whole. On this basis, a multilayer composite controller with feedforward compensation is designed, considering the mutual reactive influence between the aerial vehicle and the manipulator to improve the stability of the system under the motion of the manipulator. The simulation and actual flight tests verify the effectiveness of the design and show good stability and tracking performance of the system.


Title: Learning Synergies Between Pushing and Grasping with Self-Supervised Deep Reinforcement Learning
Key Words: convolutional neural nets  end effectors  learning (artificial intelligence)  motion control  neurocontrollers  learning synergies  self-supervised deep reinforcement learning  cluttered objects  pushing movements  model-free deep reinforcement learning  fully convolutional networks  end-effector orientations  Q-learning framework  pushing motions  grasping success rates  picking efficiencies  skilled robotic manipulation  grasping  prehensile action  pixel-wise sampling  Grasping  Training  Three-dimensional displays  Reinforcement learning  Planning  Manipulators 
Abstract: Skilled robotic manipulation benefits from complex synergies between non-prehensile (e.g. pushing) and prehensile (e.g. grasping) actions: pushing can help rearrange cluttered objects to make space for arms and fingers; likewise, grasping can help displace objects to make pushing movements more precise and collision-free. In this work, we demonstrate that it is possible to discover and learn these synergies from scratch through model-free deep reinforcement learning. Our method involves training two fully convolutional networks that map from visual observations to actions: one infers the utility of pushes for a dense pixel-wise sampling of end-effector orientations and locations, while the other does the same for grasping. Both networks are trained jointly in a Q-learning framework and are entirely self-supervised by trial and error, where rewards are provided from successful grasps. In this way, our policy learns pushing motions that enable future grasps, while learning grasps that can leverage past pushes. During picking experiments in both simulation and real-world scenarios, we find that our system quickly learns complex behaviors even amid challenging cases of tightly packed clutter, and achieves better grasping success rates and picking efficiencies than baseline alternatives after a few hours of training. We further demonstrate that our method is capable of generalizing to novel objects. Qualitative results (videos), code, pre-trained models, and simulation environments are available at http://vpg.cs.princeton.edu/


Title: Vision-Based State Estimation and Trajectory Tracking Control of Car-Like Mobile Robots with Wheel Skidding and Slipping
Key Words: automobiles  control system synthesis  estimation theory  Lyapunov methods  mobile robots  motion control  robot vision  stability  state estimation  trajectory control  wheels  car-like mobile robots  wheel slipping  Lyapunov method  system stability  visual estimation algorithm  vision-based approach  wheel skidding  trajectory tracking control  vision-based state estimation  Mobile robots  Wheels  Perturbation methods  Visualization  Estimation  Trajectory tracking 
Abstract: Most existing trajectory tracking controllers are based on non-skidding and non-slipping assumptions, also assume that full states are accessible, which is unrealistic for real-world applications due to tire-road interaction. This paper presents a novel vision-based approach to achieve high performance tracking control of a Car-Like Mobile Robot (CLMR) with wheel skidding and slippage. A visual estimation algorithm is proposed to provide reliable position, velocity, skidding and slipping information to close the control loop. The stability of the proposed system can be guaranteed by Lyapunov method since the position tracking error and the estimation error converge to zero simultaneously. Simulation is made to validate the effectiveness of the developed controller in the presence of skidding and slipping with online visual estimator.


Title: Recruitment Near Worksites Facilitates Robustness of Foraging E-Puck Swarms to Global Positioning Noise
Key Words: collision avoidance  mobile robots  position control  worksites facilitates robustness  foraging e-puck swarms  global positioning noise  collective foraging  robot global positioning data  broadcast messages  e-puck robots  semivirtual environment  VICON positioning system  robot positioning data  pseudorandom environments  important physical aspects  inherent noise  robot infra-red sensors  robot controllers  Robot kinematics  Robot sensing systems  Servers  Task analysis  Recruitment 
Abstract: We compare the ability of two different robot controllers for collective foraging to cope with noise in robot global positioning data and show how recruitment, in the form of broadcast messages near worksites, can make swarms more robust. Swarms of five e-puck robots are used in a semi-virtual environment, facilitated by the VICON positioning system. This setup allows us to control the amount of noise in the robot positioning data and to generate pseudo-random environments, while retaining important physical aspects of the experiment. The effect of inherent noise in the robot infra-red sensors, used for obstacle avoidance, is noted and the importance of modelling such noise in agent-based simulations is highlighted.


Title: $\Phi$ Clust: Pheromone-Based Aggregation for Robotic Swarms
Key Words: aggregation  fuzzy control  fuzzy set theory  image colour analysis  mobile robots  multi-robot systems  pheromone diffusion  BEECLUST algorithm  pheromone-based communication  pheromone-based aggregation method  ΦClust  artificial pheromone  BEECLUST method  pheromone evaporation  robotic swarms  Robot sensing systems  Biological system modeling  Aggregates  Swarm robotics  Temperature sensors  Swarm Robotics  Aggregation  Pheromone  Bio-inspired 
Abstract: In this paper, we proposed a pheromone-based aggregation method based on the state-of-the-art BEECLUST algorithm. We investigated the impact of pheromone-based communication on the efficiency of robotic swarms to locate and aggregate at areas with a given cue. In particular, we evaluated the impact of the pheromone evaporation and diffusion on the time required for the swarm to aggregate. In a series of simulated and real-world evaluation trials, we demonstrated that augmenting the BEECLUST method with artificial pheromone resulted in faster aggregation times.


Title: Decentralized Connectivity-Preserving Deployment of Large-Scale Robot Swarms
Key Words: collision avoidance  decentralised control  mobile robots  multi-robot systems  robots  trees (mathematics)  physics-based simulations  logical tree  robot network  spatially distributed targets  robot swarm  large-scale robot  decentralized connectivity-preserving deployment  real-robot experiments  tree root  connectivity constraints  physical network  logical tree topology  Robot kinematics  Topology  Heuristic algorithms  Network topology  Switches  Task analysis 
Abstract: We present a decentralized and scalable approach for deployment of a robot swarm. Our approach tackles scenarios in which the swarm must reach multiple spatially distributed targets, and enforce the constraint that the robot network cannot be split. The basic idea behind our work is to construct a logical tree topology over the physical network formed by the robots. The logical tree acts as a backbone used by robots to enforce connectivity constraints. We study and compare two algorithms to form the logical tree: outwards and inwards. These algorithms differ in the order in which the robots join the tree: the outwards algorithm starts at the tree root and grows towards the targets, while the inwards algorithm proceeds in the opposite manner. Both algorithms perform periodic reconfiguration, to prevent suboptimal topologies from halting the growth of the tree. Our contributions are (i) The formulation of the two algorithms; (ii) A comparison of the algorithms in extensive physics-based simulations; (iii) A validation of our findings through real-robot experiments.


Title: A Distributed Swarm Aggregation Algorithm for Bar Shaped Multi-Agent Systems
Key Words: collision avoidance  logistics  mobile robots  multi-agent systems  multi-robot systems  control scheme  collaborative transportation  bar-like shaped loads  robot-teams  collaborative object transportation task  precision farming setting  distributed swarm aggregation algorithm  bar shaped multiagent systems  state space  aggregate state  collision avoidance  angular consensus  segment-to-segment distance definition  control law  autonomous tractors  Bars  Multi-agent systems  Robot kinematics  Collision avoidance  Aggregates  Load modeling 
Abstract: In this work we consider a swarm of agents shaped as bars with a certain orientation in the state space. Members of the swarm have to reach an aggregate state, while guaranteeing the collision avoidance and possibly achieving an angular consensus. By relying on a segment-to-segment distance definition, we propose a control law, which guides the agents towards this goal. A theoretical analysis of the proposed control scheme along with simulations and experimental results is provided. The proposed framework can be used to model several application scenarios ranging from collaborative transportation to precision farming, where each agent may represent either a large robot or a group of robots intent to carry bar-like shaped loads. Representative examples include: a fleet of robot-teams performing a collaborative object transportation task in an automated logistic setting, or a fleet of autonomous tractors each carrying a large atomizer to spray chemical products for pest and disease control in a precision farming setting.


Title: Resilient Active Information Gathering with Mobile Robots
Key Words: mobile robots  multi-robot systems  information acquisition tasks  failure-prone  resilient design problems  submodular approximation algorithms  active robots  mobile robots  resilient active information gathering  multirobot target tracking  active information gathering scenario  denial-of-service attacks  system-wide resiliency  minimal communication  Robot sensing systems  Target tracking  Mobile robots  Robot kinematics  Task analysis 
Abstract: Applications of safety, security, and rescue in robotics, such as multi-robot target tracking, involve the execution of information acquisition tasks by teams of mobile robots. However, in failure-prone or adversarial environments, robots get attacked, their communication channels get jammed, and their sensors may fail, resulting in the withdrawal of robots from the collective task, and consequently the inability of the remaining active robots to coordinate with each other. As a result, traditional design paradigms become insufficient and, in contrast, resilient designs against system-wide failures and attacks become important. In general, resilient design problems are hard, and even though they often involve objective functions that are monotone or submodular, scalable approximation algorithms for their solution have been hitherto unknown. In this paper, we provide the first algorithm, enabling the following capabilities: minimal communication, i.e., the algorithm is executed by the robots based only on minimal communication between them; system-wide resiliency, i.e., the algorithm is valid for any number of denial-of-service attacks and failures; and provable approximation performance, i.e., the algorithm ensures for all monotone (and not necessarily submodular) objective functions a solution that is finitely close to the optimal. We quantify our algorithms approximation performance using a notion of curvature for monotone set functions. We support our theoretical analyses with simulated and real-world experiments, by considering an active information gathering scenario, namely, multi-robot target tracking.


Title: Generation of Context-Dependent Policies for Robot Rescue Decision-Making in Multi-Robot Teams
Key Words: decision making  multi-robot systems  probability  rescue robots  robust control  state estimation  computationally-efficient manner  feasible baseline approaches  context-dependent policies  robot rescue decision-making  multirobot teams  scalable policy synthesis framework  parallelizable policy synthesis framework  time-varying  stochastic mission conditions  physics-based simulations  probability minimization  state estimation  Robots  Task analysis  Computational modeling  State estimation  Probabilistic logic  Switches  Navigation 
Abstract: We propose a scalable, parallelizable policy synthesis framework intended for a robot presented with the decision of exploration or rescue, given some time-varying, stochastic mission conditions, referred to as context. We demonstrate the feasibility of such a solution using physics-based simulations to synthesize a policy in a computationally-efficient manner and exhibit superior performance with regards to the minimization of probability of mission failure when compared to two feasible baseline approaches. Furthermore, we present preliminary results that suggest our approach is robust to errors in the state estimation used to build mission context, which further supports the notion of real-world applicability.


Title: Development of Rimless Wheel with Controlled Wobbling Mass
Key Words: gait analysis  legged locomotion  numerical analysis  robot dynamics  wheels  controlled wobbling mass  rimless wheel  level-ground walking  propulsive effects  physical parameters  control parameters  numerical simulation  robots  Legged locomotion  Wheels  Trajectory  Torso  Mathematical model 
Abstract: This paper presents a novel method for generating level-ground walking for a rimless wheel with a controlled wobbling mass. Our rimless wheel achieves level-ground walking by simply controlling the wobbling mass attached to the wheel. We mathematically demonstrate that the controlled wobbling mass generates propulsive effects for the rimless wheel. The walking speed of the rimless wheel can be changed by varying the amplitude of the wobbling mass: thus slow walking to high-speed walking can be realized for the wheel. Moreover, we have developed a robot based on a rimless wheel to show effectiveness of our proposed methods. We then analyze the walking properties with respect to the physical parameters and control parameters of our robot through numerical simulation.


Title: Fast Walking with Rhythmic Sway of Torso in a 2D Passive Ankle Walker
Key Words: gait analysis  legged locomotion  2D passive ankle walker  biped robots  rhythmic sway  torso-swaying optimization  optimal trajectories  fast walking speed  un-actuated ankles  Legged locomotion  Torso  Trajectory  Optimization  Mathematical model  Foot  Biped robots  legged locomotion 
Abstract: There is a category of biped robots that are equipped with passive or un-actuated ankles, which we call Passive-Ankle Walkers (PAWs). Lack of actuation at ankles is a disadvantage in the fast walking of PAWs. We started this study with an intuitive hypothesis that rhythmic sway of torso may enable faster walking in PAWs. To test this hypothesis, firstly, we optimized the rhythmic sway of torso of a simulated PAW model for fast walking speed, and analyzed the robustness of the optimal trajectories. Then we implemented the optimal trajectories on a real robot. Both the simulation analysis and the experimental results indicated that optimized torso-swaying can greatly increase the walking speed by 40%. By analyzing the walking patterns of the simulated model and the real robot, we identified the reason for the faster walking with swaying-torso: The rhythmic sway of torso enables the robot to walk with a relatively large step-length while still keeninu a hizh sten-frenuencv.


Title: High-Speed Stealth Walking of Underactuated Biped Utilizing Effects of Upper-Body Control and Semicircular Feet
Key Words: gait analysis  legged locomotion  motion control  robot dynamics  high-speed stealth walking  upper-body control  semicircular feet  stable legged locomotion  underactuated robotic walkers  double-limb support phase  gait properties  typical stealth walking gaits  upper body motion  underactuated biped  Legged locomotion  Foot  Mathematical model  Trajectory  Numerical models  Stability analysis  Analytical models 
Abstract: Stealth walking is a way of walking carefully and noiselessly, and is an approach to stable legged locomotion of underactuated robotic walkers on irregular terrains. This paper proposes a method for generating a high-speed stealth walking gait without including double-limb support phase, and discusses the effect of upper-body control and semicircular feet on the gait properties. First, we introduce a model of a 3-link planar underactuated biped with an upper body and semicircular feet, and derive the approximate target initial state of the upper body by using the linearized equation of motion. Second, we conduct numerical simulations of the nonlinear model to observe the typical stealth walking gaits, and analyze the changing tendency of the upper body motion with respect to the foot radius. Furthermore, we discuss the advantage of semicircular feet through parametric studies of the gait efficiencies.


Title: Preference-Based Assistance Prediction for Human-Robot Collaboration Tasks
Key Words: control engineering computing  hidden Markov models  human-robot interaction  learning (artificial intelligence)  human-robot collaboration tasks  learning supportive behavior preferences  human-level prediction  personalized supportive behavior model  observed human workers  hidden Markov model  training data  human peer  physical tasks  human worker  robots  preference-based assistance prediction  Task analysis  Hidden Markov models  Service robots  Collaboration  Legged locomotion  Data models 
Abstract: Human-Robot Collaboration (HRC) aims to develop robots that provide assistance to human workers while performing physical tasks. Such assistance comes in the form of supportive behaviors that are different from the actions part of the task, and that are meant to help a human worker more effectively accomplish the task. Learning how to provide useful behaviors that are tailored to a human peer represents a difficult challenge. This is due to the need of large amounts of training data in the form of real world observations that include information about such preferences. This data needs to encode not only the structure and progression of the task, but also the different workers' preferences with respect to when and what assistance the robot should provide. Our work separates the challenge of learning a model of the task (which requires a large amount of training data) from that of learning supportive behavior preferences for the interaction (which has obvious restrictions for the number of user-provided demonstrations to which we have access). We first learn a hidden Markov model (HMM) from a training set consisting of observed human workers performing the considered task in simulation. We then use this model to predict, while observing the human peer, what supportive behaviors a robot should offer throughout the task. Building upon the hidden state representation, our system is able to learn the supportive behaviors based on as few as five user-annotated demonstrations, learning a personalized supportive behavior model. We evaluate our system on a user study with 14 participants, and show results on par with human-level prediction for the task.


Title: Collaborative Planning for Mixed-Autonomy Lane Merging
Key Words: control engineering computing  decision making  driver information systems  game theory  mobile robots  multi-agent systems  path planning  road traffic  road vehicles  collaborative planning  social activity  mixed-autonomy traffic  Human-driven Vehicle  HV  Autonomous Vehicle drive  AV  planning framework  two-lane highway  double lane merging  collaborative decision making  mixed-autonomy lane merging  Automobiles  Planning  Merging  Collaboration  Robots  Autonomous vehicles 
Abstract: Driving is a social activity: drivers often indicate their intent to change lanes via motion cues. We consider mixed-autonomy traffic where a Human-driven Vehicle (HV) and an Autonomous Vehicle (AV) drive together. We propose a planning framework where the degree to which the AV considers the other agent's reward is controlled by a selfishness factor. We test our approach on a simulated two-lane highway where the AV and HV merge into each other's lanes. In a user study with 21 subjects and 6 different selfishness factors, we found that our planning approach was sound and that both agents had less merging times when a factor that balances the rewards for the two agents was chosen. Our results on double lane merging suggest it to be a non-zero-sum game and encourage further investigation on collaborative decision making algorithms for mixed-autonomy traffic.


Title: Adaptive Modality Selection Algorithm in Robot-Assisted Cognitive Training
Key Words: cognition  human-robot interaction  learning (artificial intelligence)  medical robotics  patient rehabilitation  robot programming  service robots  robotic system  robot-assisted cognitive training  socially assistive robots  therapy  Alzheimer's disease  mild cognitive impairment  dementia  adaptive modality selection algorithm  interaction modalities  AMS algorithm  Shape  Training  Service robots  Manipulators  Task analysis  Market research 
Abstract: Interaction of socially assistive robots with users is based on social cues coming from different interaction modalities, such as speech or gestures. However, using all modalities at all times may be inefficient as it can overload the user with redundant information and increase the task completion time. Additionally, users may favor certain modalities over the other as a result of their disability or personal preference. In this paper, we propose an Adaptive Modality Selection (AMS) algorithm that chooses modalities depending on the state of the user and the environment, as well as user preferences. The variables that describe the environment and the user state are defined as resources, and we posit that modalities are successful if certain resources possess specific values during their use. Besides the resources, the proposed algorithm takes into account user preferences which it learns while interacting with users. We tested our algorithm in simulations, and we implemented it on a robotic system that provides cognitive training, specifically Sequential memory exercises. Experimental results show that it is possible to use only a subset of available modalities without compromising the interaction. Moreover, we see a trend for users to perform better when interacting with a system with implemented AMS algorithm.


Title: The Socially Invisible Robot Navigation in the Social World Using Robot Entitativity
Key Words: human-robot interaction  multi-robot systems  navigation  path planning  simulated robot-human interaction scenarios  entitative robots  strong emotional reactions  socially invisible robot navigation  robot entitativity  data-driven algorithm  navigational algorithms  trajectory computation  multirobot systems  Trajectory  Navigation  Psychology  Computational modeling  Surveillance  Robot kinematics 
Abstract: We present a real-time, data-driven algorithm to enhance the social-invisibility of robots within crowds. Our approach is based on prior psychological research, which reveals that people notice and-importantly-react negatively to groups of social actors when they have high entitativity, moving in a tight group with similar appearances and trajectories. In order to evaluate that behavior, we performed a user study to develop navigational algorithms that minimize entitativity. This study establishes mapping between emotional reactions and multi-robot trajectories and appearances, and further generalizes the finding across various environmental conditions. We demonstrate the applicability of our entitativity modeling for trajectory computation for active surveillance and dynamic intervention in simulated robot-human interaction scenarios. Our approach empirically shows that various levels of entitative robots can be used to both avoid and influence pedestrians while not eliciting strong emotional reactions, giving multi-robot systems socially-invisibility.


Title: Projection-Aware Task Planning and Execution for Human-in-the-Loop Operation of Robots in a Mixed-Reality Workspace
Key Words: control engineering computing  human-robot interaction  planning (artificial intelligence)  virtual reality  mixed-reality technologies  human-robot interaction  HoloLens  human-in-the-loop operation  projection-aware task planning capabilities  Robots  Task analysis  Planning  Virtual reality  Observers  Vocabulary  Natural languages 
Abstract: Recent advances in mixed-reality technologies have renewed interest in alternative modes of communication for human-robot interaction. However, most of the work in this direction has been confined to tasks such as teleoperation, simulation or explication of individual actions of a robot. In this paper, we will discuss how the capability to project intentions affect the task planning capabilities of a robot. Specifically, we will start with a discussion on how projection actions can be used to reveal information regarding the future intentions of the robot at the time of task execution. We will then pose a new planning paradigm - projection-aware planning - whereby a robot can trade off its plan cost with its ability to reveal its intentions using its projection actions. We will demonstrate each of these scenarios with the help of a joint human-robot activity using the HoloLens.


Title: KnowRobSIM — Game Engine-Enabled Knowledge Processing Towards Cognition-Enabled Robot Control
Key Words: cognitive systems  computer games  control engineering computing  data structures  decision making  inference mechanisms  knowledge representation  manipulators  motion control  rendering (computer graphics)  action simulation  physics engine  AI knowledge representation  decision making capabilities  robotic agents  motion parameterization  symbolic reasoning methods  modern game engine technology  game engine-enabled knowledge processing  cognition-enabled robot control  KnowRobSIM  reasoning methods  manipulation tasks  data structures  world scene rendering  object manipulation  Cognition  Games  Engines  Robots  Force  Data structures 
Abstract: AI knowledge representation and reasoning methods consider actions to be blackboxes that abstract away from how they are executed. This abstract view does not suffice for the decision making capabilities required by robotic agents that are to accomplish manipulation tasks. Such robots have to reason about how to pour without spilling, where to grasp a pot, how to open different containers, and so on. To enable such reasoning it is necessary to consider how objects are perceived, how motions can be executed and parameterized, and how motion parameterization affects the physical effects of actions. To this end, we propose to complement and extend symbolic reasoning methods with KnowRobSIM, an additional reasoning infrastructure based on modern game engine technology, including the subsymbolic world modeling through data structures, action simulation based on physics engine, and world scene rendering. We demonstrate how KnowRobSIM can perform powerful reasoning, prediction, and learning tasks that are required for informed decision making in object manipulation.


Title: Search-Based Optimal Motion Planning for Automated Driving
Key Words: mobile robots  optimisation  path planning  road vehicles  search problems  trajectory control  automated driving  fast motion planning  robust motion planning  real-time computation  urban conditions  convenient geometrical representation  search space  driving constraints  classical path planning approach  exact cost-to-go map  optimal motion trajectory  time horizons  fast driving conditions  slow driving conditions  search-based optimal motion planning  Planning  Vehicle dynamics  Trajectory  Dynamics  Roads  Search problems  Automation  motion planning  automated driving  lane change  multi-lane driving  traffic lights  A* search  MPC 
Abstract: This paper presents a framework for fast and robust motion planning designed to facilitate automated driving. The framework allows for real-time computation even for horizons of several hundred meters and thus enabling automated driving in urban conditions. This is achieved through several features. Firstly, a convenient geometrical representation of both the search space and driving constraints enables the use of classical path planning approach. Thus, a wide variety of constraints can be tackled simultaneously (other vehicles, traffic lights, etc.). Secondly, an exact cost-to-go map, obtained by solving a relaxed problem, is then used by A*-based algorithm with model predictive flavour in order to compute the optimal motion trajectory. The algorithm takes into account both distance and time horizons. The approach is validated within a simulation study with realistic traffic scenarios. We demonstrate the capability of the algorithm to devise plans both in fast and slow driving conditions, even when full stop is required.


Title: Composable Learning with Sparse Kernel Representations
Key Words: collision avoidance  Hilbert spaces  learning (artificial intelligence)  mobile robots  sparse matrices  stochastic processes  obstacle-avoidance policies  Reproducing kernel Hilbert space  NAF  2D environment  sparse kernel representations  normalized advantage function  state-action function  nonparametric controllers  reinforcement learning algorithm  composable learning  Kernel  Stochastic processes  Hilbert space  Data models  Training  Complexity theory  Robots 
Abstract: We present a reinforcement learning algorithm for learning sparse non-parametric controllers in a Reproducing Kernel Hilbert Space. We improve the sample complexity of this approach by imposing a structure of the state-action function through a normalized advantage function (NAF). This representation of the policy enables efficiently composing multiple learned models without additional training samples or interaction with the environment. We demonstrate the performance of this algorithm on learning obstacle-avoidance policies in multiple simulations of a robot equipped with a laser scanner while navigating in a 2D environment. We apply the composition operation to various policy combinations and test them to show that the composed policies retain the performance of their components. We also transfer the composed policy directly to a physical platform operating in an arena with obstacles in order to demonstrate a degree of generalization.


Title: Interacting with a “Transparent” Upper-Limb Exoskeleton: A Human Motor Control Approach
Key Words: biomechanics  human-robot interaction  medical robotics  motion control  neurophysiology  optimal control  patient rehabilitation  robot dynamics  robot kinematics  transparent upper-limb exoskeleton  human motor control approach  human-exoskeleton interaction  exoskeleton device  motor adaptation  human motor control research  as-transparent-as-possible contact/interaction forces  motor control laws  human movement  optimal control simulations  motor control features  Exoskeletons  Motor drives  Robots  Torque  Task analysis  Perturbation methods  Kinematics 
Abstract: Establishing a symbiotic relationship between a human and a exoskeleton is the end goal in many applications in order to provide benefits to the user. However, the literature focusing on the human side of human-exoskeleton interaction has remained less exhaustive than the literature focusing on the design (hardware/software) of the exoskeleton device itself. It is, though, essential to understand how a human adapts his motor control when interacting with an exoskeleton. Motor adaptation is an implicit process carried out by the central nervous system when the body encounters a perturbation, a paradigm that has been extensively studied in the field of human motor control research. When wearing an exoskeleton, even “as-transparent-as-possible”, contact/interaction forces may impact well-known motor control laws in a way that may be detrimental to the user, and even compromise usability in real applications. The present paper investigates how interaction with a backdrivable upper-limb exoskeleton (ABLE) set in “transparent” mode of control affects the kinematics/dynamics of human movement in a simple task. We find that important motor control features are preserved when moving with ABLE but an overall movement slowness occurs, likely as a response to increased inertia according to optimal control simulations. Such a human motor control approach illustrates one possible way to assess the degree of symbiosis between human and exoskeleton, i.e. by grounding on well-known findings in motor control research.


Title: Through-the-Lens Drone Filming
Key Words: autonomous aerial vehicles  cameras  feature extraction  Global Positioning System  image motion analysis  image sensors  mobile robots  pose estimation  robot vision  video signal processing  image composition  monocular 3D human pose estimation  drone control system  drone filming system  wearable GPS-based sensors  wearable infrared-based sensors  through-the-lens drone filming  aerial filming  camera control  drone hardware  human actions  drone camera system  through-the-lens camera planning  flight control  through-the-lens drone  wearable-sensor-based solutions  drone platform  outdoor environments  human movement  remote controller  action scenes  Cameras  Drones  Three-dimensional displays  Sensors  Pose estimation  Solid modeling  Two dimensional displays 
Abstract: Aerial filming in action scenes using a drone is difficult for inexperienced flyers because manipulating a remote controller and meeting the desired image composition are two independent, while concurrent, tasks. Existing systems attempt to utilize wearable GPS-based or infrared-based sensors to track the human movement and to assist in capturing footage. However, these sensors work only in either indoor (infrared-based) or outdoor environments (GPS-based), but not both. In this paper, we introduce a novel drone filming system which integrates monocular 3D human pose estimation and localization into a drone platform to remove the constraints imposed by wearable-sensor-based solutions. Meanwhile, given the estimated position, we propose a novel drone control system, called “through-the-lens drone filming”, to allow a cameraman to conveniently control the drone by manipulating a 3D model in the preview, which closes the gap between the flight control and the viewpoint design. Our system includes two key enabling techniques: 1) subject localization based on visual-inertial fusion, and 2) through-the-lens camera planning. This is the first drone camera system which allows users to capture human actions by manipulating the camera in a virtual environment. From the drone hardware, we integrate a gimbal camera and two GPUs into the limited space of a drone and demonstrate the feasibility of running the entire system onboard with insignificant delays, which are sufficient for filming in our real-time application. Experimental results, in both simulation and real-world scenarios, demonstrate that our techniques can greatly ease camera control and capture better videos.


Title: Aerial Radio-Based Telemetry for Tracking Wildlife
Key Words: autonomous aerial vehicles  directive antennas  mobile radio  mobile robots  radio tracking  telemetry  aerial radio-based telemetry  measurement locations  radio collar  low-cost directional antenna  USB receiver  wedges  online strategy  measurement noise  autonomous aerial robot  wildlife tracking  localization uncertainty  Antenna measurements  Animals  Measurement uncertainty  Uncertainty  Time measurement  Sensors  Robots 
Abstract: This paper considers the problem of choosing measurement locations of an aerial robot in an online manner in order to localize an animal with a radio collar. The aerial robot has a commercial, low-cost directional antenna and USB receiver to capture the signal. It uses its own movement to obtain a bearing measurement. The uncertainty in these measurements is assumed to be bounded and represented as wedges. The measurements are then merged by intersecting the wedges. The localization uncertainty is quantified by the area of the resulting intersection. The goal is to reduce the localization uncertainty to a value below a given threshold in minimum time. We present an online strategy to choose measurement locations during execution based on previous readings and analyze its performance with competitive analysis. The time required to localize a target is upper-bounded by the function of measurement noise, desired localization uncertainty and minimum step length. We also validate the strategy in extensive simulations and show its applicability through field experiments over a 5 hectare area using an autonomous aerial robot equipped with a directional antenna.


Title: Planning to Monitor Wildfires with a Fleet of UAVs
Key Words: autonomous aerial vehicles  emergency management  fires  path planning  search problems  wildfires  fire propagation process  observation trajectories  fire model  wildfire monitoring  variable neighborhood search method  fixed-wing UAV fleet  Trajectory  Monitoring  Cameras  Ignition  Planning  Fuels  Shape 
Abstract: We present an approach to plan trajectories for a fleet of fixed-wing UAVs to observe a wildfire evolving over time. Realistic models of the terrain, of the fire propagation process, and of the UAVs are exploited, together with a model of the wind. The approach tailors a generic Variable Neighborhood Search method to these models and associated constraints. Simulation results show ability to plan observation trajectories for a small fleet of UAVs, and to update the plans when new information on the fire are incorporated in the fire model.


Title: A Maximum Likelihood Approach to Extract Polylines from 2-D Laser Range Scans
Key Words: image reconstruction  image registration  laser ranging  maximum likelihood estimation  probability  simulated laser scans  maximum likelihood approach  2-D laser range scans  man-made environments  factory floors  linear structures  probabilistic method  polylines extraction  Feature extraction  Sensors  Lasers  Probabilistic logic  Optimization  Measurement by laser beam  Laser radar 
Abstract: Man-made environments such as households, offices, or factory floors are typically composed of linear structures. Accordingly, polylines are a natural way to accurately represent their geometry. In this paper, we propose a novel probabilistic method to extract polylines from raw 2-D laser range scans. The key idea of our approach is to determine a set of polylines that maximizes the likelihood of a given scan. In extensive experiments carried out on publicly available real-world datasets and on simulated laser scans, we demonstrate that our method substantially outperforms existing state-of-the-art approaches in terms of accuracy, while showing comparable computational requirements. Our implementation is available under https://github.com/acschaefer/ple.


Title: Decentralised Mission Monitoring with Spatiotemporal Optimal Stopping
Key Words: mobile robots  multi-robot systems  optimisation  path planning  probability  decentralised mission monitoring  spatiotemporal optimal stopping  multirobot variant  mission monitoring problem  multiple tracker robots  single target robot  multirobot systems  task performance  marine robotics missions  single-robot paths  probabilistic representation  decentralised scheme  useful analytical properties  planned trajectories  probabilistic motion  observation models  mission monitoring systems  Monitoring  Trajectory  Target tracking  Robot kinematics  Probabilistic logic  Predictive models 
Abstract: We consider a multi-robot variant of the mission monitoring problem. This problem arises in tasks where a robot observes the progress of another robot that is stochastically following a known trajectory, among other applications. We formulate and solve a variant where multiple tracker robots must monitor a single target robot, which is important because it enables the use of multi-robot systems to improve task performance in practice, such as in marine robotics missions. Our algorithm coordinates the behaviour of the trackers by computing optimal single-robot paths given a probabilistic representation of the other robots' paths. We employ a decentralised scheme that optimises over probability distributions of plans and has useful analytical properties. The planned trajectories collectively maximise the probability of observing the target throughout the mission with respect to probabilistic motion and observation models. We report simulation results for up to 8 robots that support our analysis and indicate that our algorithm is a feasible solution for improving the performance of mission monitoring systems.


Title: Uncertain Local Leader Selection in Distributed Formations
Key Words: collision avoidance  control engineering computing  mobile robots  multi-robot systems  virtual local leader  accurate local leader  formation accuracy  individual robot  sensory uncertainty  distributed setting  optimal multirobot formation control  uncertain environment  desired formation  specific formation  desired destination  single robot  local leaders  specific predefined angle  hierarchical form  Leader-Follower  distributed formations  uncertain local leader selection  visible robots  Robot sensing systems  Reliability  Shape  Uncertainty  Task analysis 
Abstract: Leader-Follower is a hierarchical form of multi-robot formation control, where each robot aims to maintain specific predefined angle and distance from one or more robots in the team (referred to as its local leaders), while a single robot is selected to lead the entire formation to a desired destination. When the robots are given a specific formation to maintain, their goal is usually to minimize the deviation from this desired formation (maximizing the accuracy) during their journey. Previous work has considered optimality in an uncertain environment only in centralized setting (or using perfect, or almost perfect communication). In this paper we examine the problem of optimal multi-robot formation control in a distributed setting, while accounting for two challenges: sensory uncertainty and absence of communication. Specifically, we present an algorithm that allows each individual robot to estimate the overall formation accuracy of the other robots in their field of view via a tree reconstruction algorithm. The algorithm is used to select the most accurate local leader, or to generate virtual local leader via a weighted average of all visible robots. We provide both theoretical analysis and an extensive empirical evaluation (in ROS/Gazebo simulated environment) showing the effectiveness of the two approaches.


Title: Electing an Approximate Center in a Huge Modular Robot with the k-BFS SumSweep Algorithm
Key Words: approximation theory  distributed control  embedded systems  large-scale systems  mobile robots  multi-robot systems  tree searching  asynchronous distributed embedded systems  distributed system coordination  approximation algorithm  memory per node  neighboring modules  lattice structure  resource-constrained identical modules  distributed modular robotic ensembles  huge modular robot  large-scale systems  hardware modular robots  approximate-center node  k-BFS SumSweep algorithm  Approximation algorithms  Robot kinematics  Voting  Heuristic algorithms  Probabilistic logic  Embedded systems  Distributed algorithm  Modular robots  Center election 
Abstract: Among the diversity of the existing modular robotic systems, we consider in this paper the subset of distributed modular robotic ensembles composed of resource-constrained identical modules that are organized in a lattice structure and which can only communicate with neighboring modules. These modular robotic ensembles form asynchronous distributed embedded systems. In many algorithms dedicated to distributed system coordination, a specific role has to be played by a leader, i.e., a single node in the system. This leader can be elected using various criteria. A possible strategy is to elect a center node, i.e., a node that has the minimum distance to all the other nodes. Indeed, this node is ideally located to communicate with all the others and this leads to better performance in many algorithms. The contribution of this paper is to propose the k-BFS SumSweep algorithm designed to elect an approximate-center node. We evaluated our algorithm both on hardware modular robots and in a simulator for large ensembles of robots. Experimental results show that k-BFS SumSweep is often the most accurate approximation algorithm (with an average relative accuracy between 90% to 100%) while using the fewest messages in large-scale systems, requiring only a modest amount of memory per node, and converging in a reasonable length of time.


Title: Modeling and Control of Multiple Aerial-Ground Manipulator System (MAGMaS) with Load Flexibility
Key Words: aerospace robotics  manipulators  mobile robots  multi-robot systems  vibration control  MAGMaS  load flexibility  heterogeneous system  aerial robot  rigid load manipulation  load weight holding  long-slender object manipulation  multiple aerial-ground manipulator system  flexible load-tip pose tracking  vibration suppression controllability  Unmanned aerial vehicles  Manipulators  Load modeling  Vibrations  Mathematical model  Shape 
Abstract: The MAGMaS (Multiple Aerial-Ground Manipulator System) was proposed in [1] as a heterogeneous system composed of multiple ground (mobile) manipulators and aerial robots to collaboratively manipulate a long/large-sized object and demonstrated therein for rigid load manipulation. Here, we extend this result of [1] to the case of load manipulation with flexibility, which is crucial for long/slender object manipulation, yet, not considered in [1]. We first provide a rigorous modeling of the load flexibility and its effects on the MAGMaS dynamics. We then propose a novel collaborative control framework for flexible load-tip pose tracking, where the ground manipulator provides slower nominal pose tracking with overall load weight holding, whereas the aerial robot allows for faster vibration suppression with some load weight sharing. We also discuss the issue of controllability stemming from that the aerial robot provides less number of actuation than the modes of the load flexibility; and elucidate some peculiar conditions for this vibration suppression controllability. Simulations are also performed to demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed theory.


Title: Multi-Robot Virtual Structure Switching and Formation Changing Strategy in an Unknown Occluded Environment
Key Words: collision avoidance  hierarchical systems  multi-robot systems  stability  switching systems (control)  trees (mathematics)  multirobot virtual structure switching  formation changing strategy  region-based shape controller  swarm-robotic framework  traditional obstacle-avoidance problem  virtual structure methodology  triangular formation  shrinking phenomena  variable structure  two-layer hierarchical control strategy  inter-agent formation  spanning-tree-assisted-shape-matching algorithm  stability analysis  Shape  Robots  Switches  Convergence  Simulation  Stability analysis 
Abstract: This paper presents a switching strategy of a region-based shape controller for a swarm-robotic framework to overcome the traditional obstacle-avoidance problem in the virtual structure methodology. In this control approach, initially, the robots move as a group inside a circular region which we conceive to be the initial virtual structure, while preserving a specific pattern, say a triangular formation, among them. In order to avoid static/dynamic obstacles, while approaching towards the target without any prior knowledge about the environment, the virtual-circle is allowed to shrink up to a certain limit. The shrinking phenomena of the virtual circle will depend upon the number of agents within the circle and the distance between two the nearest obstacles sensed by the agents through which the swarm should be able to pass. If the situation demands, the structure may assume the shape of an ellipse of equivalent area continually throughout the path described by the swarm encapsulated within the variable structure. To achieve this, two-layer hierarchical control strategy has been proposed. Moreover, if the shape of the virtual structure changes, the formation of the swarm inside the region may also change. To make the inter-agent formation flexible inside the newly formed virtual structure, a spanning-tree-assisted-shape-matching algorithm has been employed for accommodating all the agents inside the virtual region which helps in the formation change in the agents as well. Finally, simulation results and stability analysis of the controllers are provided to demonstrate our proposed technique.


Title: Distributed Sensing Subject to Temporal Logic Constraints
Key Words: entropy  formal specification  greedy algorithms  multi-agent systems  optimisation  temporal logic  distributed sensing subject  temporal logic constraints  temporal logic specifications  local objective functions  motion plans  objective function  information entropy  unassigned agents  satisfaction guarantees  optimality loss  local greedy minimization  TL constraints  specification complexity  TL specification  product automaton based approach  Robot sensing systems  Linear programming  Task analysis  Planning  Automata 
Abstract: This paper considers the combination of temporal logic (TL) specifications and local objective functions to create online, multiagent, motion plans. These plans are guaranteed to satisfy a persistent mission TL specification and locally optimize an objective function (e.g. in this paper, a cost based on information entropy). The presented approach decouples the two tasks by assigning sub-teams of agents to fulfill the TL specification, while unassigned agents optimize the objective function locally. This paper also presents a novel decoupling of the classic product automaton based approach while maintaining satisfaction guarantees. We also qualitatively show that optimality loss in the local greedy minimization due to the TL constraints can be approximated based on specification complexity. This approach is evaluated with a set of simulations and an experiment of 6 robots with real sensors.


Title: An Active Stabilizer for Cable-Driven Parallel Robot Vibration Damping
Key Words: actuators  cables (mechanical)  closed loop systems  damping  manipulator kinematics  position control  vibration control  vibrations  parasitic vibrations  CDPR mobile platform  vibration damping  actuated rotating arms  control strategy  planar 3-DOF CDPR  three-arm stabilizer  cable-driven parallel robots  active stabilizer  position control  cable-driven parallel robot vibration  closed-loop system  Vibrations  Damping  Actuators  Stability analysis  Symmetric matrices  Torque  Jacobian matrices 
Abstract: Cable-Driven Parallel Robots (CDPRs) can execute fast motions across a large workspace. However, these performances are reached at the cost of a relatively low stiffness which often yields parasitic vibrations at the CDPR mobile platform. In this paper, vibration damping of CDPRs is addressed by means of an original active stabilizer consisting of actuated rotating arms installed on-board the CDPR mobile platform. A control strategy for the whole system, which consists of the CDPR and the stabilizer, and with one purpose for each-position control for the platform and vibration damping for the stabilizer-is designed. The system being controlled at two different time scales, the singular perturbation theory can be used to prove the stability of the corresponding closed-loop system. The efficiency of the proposed device and control strategy is tested in simulations in the case of a planar 3-DOF CDPR equipped with a three-arm stabilizer.


Title: Design and Fabrication of a Bipedal Robot Using Serial-Parallel Hybrid Leg Mechanism
Key Words: design engineering  legged locomotion  machine bearings  motion control  robot dynamics  velocity control  serial-parallel hybrid leg mechanism  forward walking motion  developed robot  feet workspace  pelvis structure  structural rigidity  bearings  carbon fiber tubes  agile bipedal locomotion  light structural inertia  parallel mechanism  serial mechanism  bipedal robot  performance evaluation  Legged locomotion  Foot  Hip  Servomotors  Humanoid robots  Knee 
Abstract: In this paper, we present the design and performance evaluation of a bipedal robot that utilizes the Hybrid Leg mechanism. It is a leg mechanism that achieves 6 DOF with a combined structure of serial and parallel mechanism. It is designed to have a light structural inertia and large workspace for agile bipedal locomotion. A new version of Hybrid Leg is fabricated with carbon fiber tubes and bearings to improve its structural rigidity and accuracy while supporting its weight. A pair of Hybrid Legs is assembled together for bipedal locomotion. In the assembly, we adopt a pelvis structure with an yaw angle offset to enlarge the feet workspace, inspired by the toe-out angle of the human feet. The workspace and range of velocity are presented in simulation and verified with hardware experiments. We also demonstrate a simple forward walking motion with the developed robot.


Title: Probabilistic Kinematic State Estimation for Motion Planning of Planetary Rovers
Key Words: aerospace robotics  Mars  mobile robots  path planning  planetary rovers  robot kinematics  state estimation  statistical distributions  light-weight analytic solution  rocky terrain  typical numeric approaches  onboard computation  single collision  unstructured terrain  robot motion planning  kinematics-based collision detection  planetary rovers  probabilistic kinematic state estimation  deterministic state bounds  distribution models  probabilistic safety guarantees  worst-case evaluation  deterministic bounds  probability distributions  frequent false positive detection  conservative safety check approach  worst-case values  constraint violation  terrain height  articulated suspension systems  Mars 2020 rover mission  Approximate Clearance Evaluation  Wheels  Kinematics  Planning  Space vehicles  Uncertainty  Numerical models  Probabilistic logic 
Abstract: Kinematics-based collision detection is important for robot motion planning in unstructured terrain. Especially, planetary rovers require such capability as a single collision may lead to the termination of a mission. For onboard computation, typical numeric approaches are unsuitable as they are computationally expensive and unstable on rocky terrain; instead, a light-weight analytic solution (ACE: Approximate Clearance Evaluation) is planning to be used for the Mars 2020 rover mission. ACE computes the state bounds of articulated suspension systems from terrain height bounds, and assess the safety by checking the constraint violation of states with the worst-case values. ACE's conservative safety check approach can sometimes lead to over-pessimism: feasible states are often reported as infeasible, thus resulting in frequent false positive detection. In this paper, we introduce a computationally efficient probabilistic variant of ACE (called p-ACE) which estimates the probability distributions of states in real time. The advantage of having probability distributions over states, instead of deterministic bounds, is to provide more flexible and less pessimistic worst-case evaluation with probabilistic safety guarantees. Empirically derived distribution models are used to compute the total probability of constraint satisfaction, which is then used for path assessment. Through experiments with a high-fidelity simulator, we empirically show that p-ACE relaxes the deterministic state bounds without losing safety guarantees.


Title: Constrained Control of Robotic Manipulators Using the Explicit Reference Governor
Key Words: actuators  collision avoidance  end effectors  manipulators  position control  robot arm  ERG  Explicit Reference Governor  nonconvex constraints  constrained control  2DOF planar robotic manipulator  end-effector position  actuator saturations  static obstacles  joint ranges  Manipulator dynamics  Safety  End effectors  Actuators  Navigation 
Abstract: Robotic manipulators that are intended to interact with humans in their operating region are systems that need formal safety guarantees. Current solutions cannot handle both input and state constraints, have difficulties handling nonconvex constraints, or are computationally too expensive. To tackle these drawbacks, we analyzed a constrained control strategy, the Explicit Reference Governor (ERG), which can address both input and state constraints, and does not require any online optimization, thus making it computationally inexpensive. This paper presents the theory of the ERG for a general robotic manipulator and shows simulations for a specific 2DOF planar robotic manipulator. The proposed control scheme is able to steer the robot arm to the desired end-effector position, or an admissible approximation, in the presence of limited joint ranges, actuator saturations, and static obstacles. As a result, the ERG is a promising tool for the control of robotic manipulators subject to constraints.


Title: Iterative Learning Vector Field for FES-Supported Cyclic Upper Limb Movements in Combination with Robotic Weight Compensation
Key Words: bioelectric phenomena  biomechanics  iterative methods  learning (artificial intelligence)  medical computing  medical robotics  muscle  neuromuscular stimulation  neurophysiology  patient rehabilitation  physiological models  control system  spinal cord injured patients  functional electrical stimulation  iterative learning control approaches  prespecified reference trajectory  self-selected cadence  smooth stimulation intensity profiles  complex neuromusculoskeletal model  initial RMS error  steady state RMS error  adaptive FES support  purely volitional movements  breaststroke motions  control algorithm  artificially activated muscles  learning algorithm  joint angle space  stimulation intensities  ILVF  transversal plane  cable tension forces  arm weight  breaststroke swimming exercises  repetitive arm movements  cable-driven robotic system  anterior deltoid  posterior deltoid  triceps  biceps  feedback-controlled FES  robotic weight compensation  FES-supported cyclic upper limb movements  iterative learning vector field  Iron  Muscles  Trajectory  Manipulators  Torque  Aerospace electronics 
Abstract: Robotics and Functional Electrical Stimulation (FES) are well-established technologies for the rehabilitation of stroke and spinal cord injured (SCI) patients. We propose a hybrid solution that combines feedback-controlled FES of biceps and triceps as well as posterior and anterior deltoid with a cable-driven robotic system to support repetitive arm movements, like “breaststroke swimming” exercises. The robotic system partially compensates the arm weight by controlling the cable tension forces, and the FES promotes motion in the transversal plane. To adjust the FES support to the needs of the individual patients we use an iterative learning vector field (ILVF) which encodes the stimulation intensities that are applied to guide the patient along a pre-specified reference trajectory in the joint angle space. In contrast to previous iterative learning control approaches, the ILVF allows the patient to perform the motion at self-selected cadence. The proposed learning algorithm explicitly takes the dynamics of the artificially activated muscles into account and assures smooth stimulation intensity profiles. The control algorithm is tested in simulations using a complex neuro-musculoskeletal model. For “breaststroke” motions, the initial RMS error of purely volitional movements is reduced from 38° to 10° within 21 cycles by the adaptive FES support. After 50 iterations of the ILVF, the algorithm converges to a steady state RMS error of 4°. Changes in the patient's muscle activity and cadence were well tolerated by the control system and did not cause a noticable increase in the steady state RMS error.


Title: Cooperative Control for Knee Joint Flexion-Extension Movement Restoration
Key Words: adaptive control  closed loop systems  medical control systems  neuromuscular stimulation  nonlinear control systems  observers  orthotics  patient rehabilitation  torque control  knee joint angle trajectory  cooperative control  functional electrical stimulation  quadriceps muscle group  nonlinear disturbance observer  torque estimation  rehabilitation technologies  open-loop FES  closed-loop adaptive control  powered knee joint orthosis  knee joint flexion-extension movement restoration  Torque  Muscles  Knee  Iron  Estimation  Fatigue  Trajectory 
Abstract: This paper describes a cooperative control approach that combines the use of a powered knee joint orthosis along with Functional Electrical Stimulation (FES) for knee joint flexion-extension movement restoration. A closed-loop adaptive control and an open-loop FES of the quadriceps muscle group are combined together to track a desired knee joint angle trajectory of flexion/extension movements. A nonlinear disturbance observer is used to estimate the torque provided by the subject's muscles through the FES. Simulations and experiments with a healthy subject show the feasibility of the proposed approach. Experiments show the repeatability of motion and the complementarity between the torque provided by the quadriceps muscle through FES and the one delivered by the orthosis actuator to ensure satisfactory tracking of the desired trajectory.


Title: History-Aware Autonomous Exploration in Confined Environments Using MAVs
Key Words: attitude control  autonomous aerial vehicles  mobile robots  path planning  sampling-based exploration algorithms  3D exploration planner  field-of-view depth sensor  configuration space  high sampling efficiency  computational constrained real world MAV  history-aware autonomous exploration  confined environments  inspection tasks  high-dimensional path planning problem  microaerial vehicle  search and rescue missions  next-best views  robot orientation  Planning  Robot sensing systems  Three-dimensional displays  Trajectory  History  Optimization 
Abstract: Many scenarios require a robot to be able to explore its 3D environment online without human supervision. This is especially relevant for inspection tasks and search and rescue missions. To solve this high-dimensional path planning problem, sampling-based exploration algorithms have proven successful. However, these do not necessarily scale well to larger environments or spaces with narrow openings. This paper presents a 3D exploration planner based on the principles of Next-Best Views (NBVs). In this approach, a Micro-Aerial Vehicle (MAV)equipped with a limited field-of-view depth sensor randomly samples its configuration space to find promising future viewpoints. In order to obtain high sampling efficiency, our planner maintains and uses a history of visited places, and locally optimizes the robot's orientation with respect to unobserved space. We evaluate our method in several simulated scenarios, and compare it against a state-of-the-art exploration algorithm. The experiments show substantial improvements in exploration time (2 × faster), computation time, and path length, and advantages in handling difficult situations such as escaping dead-ends (up to 20 × faster). Finally, we validate the on-line capability of our algorithm on a computational constrained real world MAV.


Title: Circle Formation with Computation-Free Robots Shows Emergent Behavioural Structure
Key Words: finite state machines  mobile robots  multi-robot systems  spatiotemporal phenomena  computation-free robots  emergent behavioural structure  finite state machine  minimal robots  nonholonomic robots  self-healing circle formations  frontal binary sensor  grid-search method  computation-free behaviour  spatio-temporal dynamics  Robot sensing systems  Mobile robots  Robot kinematics  Apertures  Standards  Computational modeling 
Abstract: In this paper, we demonstrate how behavioural structure, such as a finite state machine, can emerge in minimal robots without computation nor memory capabilities. As a case study we observe the ability of a group of non-holonomic robots to form robust, self-healing circle formations in a decentralized manner using only a limited frontal binary sensor. We present a grid-search method to find suitable parameters that promote the formation of a stable circle. We then examine how the parameters of the controllers affect the appearance of the behaviour, and provide theoretical proof for its emergence and self-healing properties. We validate the proposed model through a set of experiments with ten mobile real robots. Our results with real robots match the simulated experiments and provide insights on how a simple, computation-free behaviour can generate complex spatio-temporal dynamics.


Title: Inferring Semantic State Transitions During Telerobotic Manipulation
Key Words: control engineering computing  human-robot interaction  inference mechanisms  manipulators  mobile robots  service robots  telerobotics  telerobotic manipulation  autonomous operations  service robots  robot teleoperation  automated planning  higher abstraction level  semantic reasoning  abstract state  operational modes  simulation based geometric tracking  semantic state transitions inference  state inference entities  Semantics  Planning  Computational modeling  Physics  Robot sensing systems  Task analysis 
Abstract: Human teleoperation of robots and autonomous operations go hand in hand in today's service robots. While robot teleoperation is typically performed on low to medium levels of abstraction, automated planning has to take place on a higher abstraction level, i.e. by means of semantic reasoning. Accordingly, an abstract state of the world has to be maintained in order to enable an operator to switch seamlessly between both operational modes. We propose a novel approach that combines simulation based geometric tracking and semantic state inference by means of so called State Inference Entities to overcome this issue. We also demonstrate how Evolutionary Strategies can be employed to refine simulation parameters. All experiments are demonstrated in real-world experiments conducted with the humanoid robot Rollin' Justin.


Title: “Hammer: Robot Programming Interface for Common People”
Key Words: Android (operating system)  augmented reality  control engineering computing  industrial robots  production engineering computing  robot programming  user interfaces  visual programming  Hammer  robot programming interface  tablet-based end-user interface  industrial robot programming  Hephestos European project  Android application  Android OS  visual programming concept  online programming  reprogramming  robot control  manual-guidance interface  augmented-reality-based-monitoring system  scratch programming language  sensors systems  Service robots  Robot programming  Task analysis  Robot sensing systems  Intelligent robots  Industrial Robots  Human-Centered Robotics  Intelligent and Flexible Manufacturing 
Abstract: This video shows the main features of Hammer, a tablet-based end-user interface for industrial robot programming, in a real environment: a robotic cell created for the Hephestos European project. Hammer is an Android application that makes easier to program tasks for industrial robots like polishing, milling or grinding. It is based on the Scratch programming language, but specifically design and created for Android OS. It is a visual programming concept that allows non-skilled operators to create programs. The application allows to monitor the tasks while it is being executed by overlapping real time information through augmented reality. The application includes a teach pendant screen that can be customized according to the operator needs at every moment. The application is designed for online programming and reprogramming; easy use of learn-by-demonstration methods; easy connection with the robot control and sensors systems; and safety-system integration. It aims to be intuitive, easy to use, and simple. The application has four main parts: customized teach pendant, robot programming IDE and simulator, manual-guidance interface and augmented-reality-based-monitoring system.


Title: Adaptive Sensor Bias Estimation in Nine Degree of Freedom Inertial Measurement Units: Theory and Preliminary Evaluation
Key Words: angular measurement  attitude measurement  calibration  gyroscopes  inertial systems  magnetic field measurement  magnetic sensors  magnetometers  adaptive sensor bias estimation  three-axis magnetometers  three-axis accelerometers  three-axis angular rate sensors  high-end angular rate sensors  ring-laser gyros  MEMS gyros  compensation  attitude estimation  attitude and heading reference systems  nine degree of freedom inertial measurement units  sensor bias calibration methods  adaptive sensor bias observer  magnetic-north AHRS heading  DOF inertial measurement units  true-North heading AHRS estimation  Earth-rate estimation  9-DOF IMU measurements  Robot sensing systems  Magnetometers  Instruments  Accelerometers  Observers  Gyroscopes 
Abstract: Nine degrees of freedom (DOF) inertial measurement units (IMUs) comprised of three-axis magnetometers, three-axis accelerometers, and three-axis angular rate sensors are commonly used in attitude and heading reference systems (AHRSs). Two classes of AHRSs exist: systems that estimate true-North heading and systems that estimate magnetic-North heading. True-North heading AHRSs require high-end angular rate sensors which are sensitive enough to dynamically estimate Earth-rate (typically fiber-optic and ring-laser gyros), while magnetic-North AHRSs employ gyros that are not sensitive enough to dynamically estimate Earth-rate (i.e. all MEMS gyros). Thus, magnetic-North AHRSs employ magnetometers for estimating heading. This paper will focus on this class of magnetic-North AHRSs. These systems fuse IMU measurements to generate estimates of the instrument's roll, pitch, and magnetic heading. However, their accuracy is limited by sensor measurement bias that is unknown a priori. Hence, accurate sensor bias estimation and compensation is essential for true attitude estimation. This paper reports a novel adaptive sensor bias observer for sensor measurement biases in 9-DOF IMUs. The algorithm requires smaller angular movements of the instrument than other reported sensor bias calibration methods, does not require a priori knowledge of local fields like the local magnetic field or the local gravity vector, and does not require knowledge of the attitude of the instrument. Stability proofs, preliminary simulations, and a full-scale vehicle experimental evaluation are reported.


Title: Automatic Extrinsic Calibration of a Camera and a 3D LiDAR Using Line and Plane Correspondences
Key Words: calibration  cameras  measurement errors  optical radar  optical sensors  checkerboard  3D light detection and ranging sensor  3D line correspondences  3D plane correspondences  measurement errors  plane-only algorithms  LiDAR measurement  LiDAR intrinsic scale factor  calibration process  laser points  parallel planar targets  automatic extrinsic calibration  Cameras  Laser radar  Calibration  Three-dimensional displays  Lasers  Robot vision systems  Approximation algorithms 
Abstract: In this paper, we address the problem of extrinsic calibration of a camera and a 3D Light Detection and Ranging (LiDAR) sensor using a checkerboard. Unlike previous works which require at least three checkerboard poses, our algorithm reduces the minimal number of poses to one by combining 3D line and plane correspondences. Besides, we prove that parallel planar targets with parallel boundaries provide the same constraints in our algorithm. This allows us to place the checkerboard close to the LiDAR so that the laser points better approximate the target boundary without loss of generality. Moreover, we present an algorithm to estimate the similarity transformation between the LiDAR and the camera for the applications where only the correspondences between laser points and pixels are concerned. Using a similarity transformation can simplify the calibration process since the physical size of the checkerboard is not needed. Meanwhile, estimating the scale can yield a more accurate result due to the inevitable measurement errors of the checkerboard size and the LiDAR intrinsic scale factor that transforms the LiDAR measurement to the metric measurement. Our algorithm is validated through simulations and experiments. Compared to the plane-only algorithms, our algorithm can obtain more accurate result by fewer number of poses. This is beneficial to the large-scale commercial application.


Title: SCALAR - Simultaneous Calibration of 2D Laser and Robot's Kinematic Parameters Using Three Planar Constraints
Key Words: calibration  industrial robots  laser ranging  position control  robot kinematics  calibration approaches  calibration parameters  geometric planar constraints  2D Laser Range Finder  6-DoF robot  calibration method  laser tracker  expensive external measurement system  calibrations  robot accuracy  industrial robots  kinematic parameters  simultaneous calibration  SCALAR  robot system  Robot kinematics  Calibration  Cameras  Measurement by laser beam  Kinematics  Robot vision systems 
Abstract: Industrial robots are increasingly used in various applications where the robot accuracy becomes very important, hence calibrations of the robot's kinematic parameters and the measurement system's extrinsic parameters are required. However, the existing calibration approaches are either too cumbersome or require another expensive external measurement system such as laser tracker or measurement spinarm. In this paper, we propose SCALAR, a calibration method to simultaneously improve the kinematic parameters of a 6-DoF robot and the extrinsic parameters of a 2D Laser Range Finder (LRF) that is attached to the robot. Three flat planes are placed around the robot, and for each plane the robot moves to several poses such that the LRF's ray intersect the respective plane. Geometric planar constraints are then used to optimize the calibration parameters using Levenberg-Marquardt nonlinear optimization algorithm. We demonstrate through simulations that SCALAR can reduce the average position and orientation errors of the robot system from 14.6 mm and 4.05° to 0.09 mm and 0.02°.


Title: Automatic Calibration of Multiple Cameras and Depth Sensors with a Spherical Target
Key Words: calibration  cameras  sensor fusion  spatial variables measurement  automatic calibration  multisensor calibration  spherical calibration target  subresolution detection accuracy  camera  depth sensor  Calibration  Cameras  Image edge detection  Laser radar  Three-dimensional displays  Detectors 
Abstract: In this work we present a novel approach for multi-sensor calibration that significantly outperforms current state-of-the-art. We introduce a new spherical calibration target which has major benefits over existing targets. Those are subresolution detection accuracy in both camera and depth sensor, view invariance and applicability to a wider range of sensor setups than current approaches. With our method a single person achieves high quality calibration in less than a minute. No preparations for setting up the environment for calibration is needed. Our method is fast, easy to use and fully automatic. We evaluate our method in simulation and show high accuracy with an error of less than 3mm in translation and 0.1 0 in rotation on real data.


Title: Robust Optimization-Based Calculation of Invariant Trajectory Representations for Point and Rigid-body Motion
Key Words: image motion analysis  image recognition  image reconstruction  image representation  optimisation  smoothing methods  standard smoothing methods  measurement noise  motion trajectories  robust optimization-based calculation  invariant trajectory representations  motion experiments  motion recognition  context-independent motion models  rigid-body motion  Trajectory  Sensitivity  Smoothing methods  Context modeling  Fasteners  Noise measurement  Programming 
Abstract: Invariant representations of demonstrated motion trajectories provide context-independent motion models that can be used in motion recognition and generalization applications such as robot programming by demonstration. In practice, the use of invariant representations is still limited because their numerical calculation from a demonstrated trajectory is complicated by sensitivity to measurement noise and singularities, yielding inaccurate invariant functions that do not correspond well with the original trajectory. This paper improves the calculation of invariant representations for point and rigid-body motions by reformulating their calculation as an optimization problem that minimizes the error between the trajectory reconstructed from the invariant representation and the measured trajectory. Robustness against noise and singularities is ensured through the addition of regularization terms on the invariants. Simulations and real motion experiments show that the accuracy of the calculated invariant representations greatly improves with respect to standard smoothing methods. These results encourage future developments of motion recognition and generalization applications based on invariant trajectory representations.


Title: Position-Based Time-Integrator for Frictional Articulated Body Dynamics
Key Words: friction  graphics processing units  Newton method  optimisation  robot dynamics  Newton-Euler-based simulator  Newton-type optimization scheme  friction forces  position variables  frictional dynamics  frictional articulated body dynamics  position-based time-integrator  Mathematical model  Friction  Dynamics  Heuristic algorithms  Optimization  Linear programming  Robots 
Abstract: We present a new time-integrator for modeling the frictional dynamics of articulated bodies. Our formulation represents the configuration of the articulated body using position variables and then uses those variables to model the friction forces between the articulated body and the environment. Our approach corresponds to a Newton-type optimization scheme that is guaranteed to converge so that it is stable with large timestep sizes. We evaluate the accuracy and stability of our time-integrator by comparing it with a conventional formulations based on the Newton-Euler equation and demonstrate the benefits on standard controller-optimization applications. We achieve 3-5 times speedup over a Newton-Euler-based simulator on a CPU. Our approach can be easily parallelized on a GPU and results in additional 4-15 times performance improvement.


Title: A Robust Time-Stepping Scheme for Quasistatic Rigid Multibody Systems
Key Words: grippers  integer programming  manipulator kinematics  quadratic programming  robust control  torque  robust time-stepping scheme  quasistatic rigid multibody systems  quasistatic physics  linear complementarity problems  grasping velocity command  small-to-medium-sized systems  manipulation  motion primitive  LCP  optimization problem  mixed-integer quadratic program  torque  Grippers  Friction  Force  Kinematics  Grasping  Manipulators 
Abstract: An effective scheme to simulate low-speed, contact-rich manipulation tasks is to assume quasistatic physics and advance system states by solving linear complementarity problems (LCPs). However, the existing LCP-based quasistatic time-stepping scheme fails to simulate grasping-an essential motion primitive in manipulation-due to two drawbacks specific to quasistatic systems. Firstly, inputs to quasistatic systems are velocity commands instead of torques. This can lead to penetration, and thus an infeasible LCP, when two rigid bodies in contact are commanded to push against each other. Secondly, as multiple force solutions exist for a given velocity command, a grasping velocity command is not guaranteed to generate sufficient grasping forces. In this paper, we reformulate the quasistatic time-stepping scheme as an optimization problem with complementarity constraints and a quadratic objective. By minimizing the difference between actual and commanded velocities, linearized non-penetration constraints can always be satisfied. Moreover, undesirable solutions with insufficient normal forces can be removed by considering elasticity, which is modeled by comparing actual and commanded velocities. The resulting optimization problem is a mixed-integer quadratic program, which can be solved reasonably quickly for small-to-medium-sized systems. The effectiveness of the proposed reformulation is validated by simulation results of systems with different levels of complexity.


Title: Assisted Control for Semi-Autonomous Power Infrastructure Inspection Using Aerial Vehicles
Key Words: aerospace robotics  collision avoidance  inspection  optical sensors  power overhead lines  sensor placement  collision avoidance  optical sensors  sensor placement  fixed energy infrastructure  aerial inspection  multirotor platform  assisted control technology  aerial vehicles  semiautonomous power infrastructure inspection  proximity inspection tasks  assisted control approach  Inspection  Wires  Measurement  Robot sensing systems  Collision avoidance  Unmanned aerial vehicles  Task analysis 
Abstract: This paper presents the design and implementation of an assisted control technology for a small multirotor platform for aerial inspection of fixed energy infrastructure. Sensor placement is supported by a theoretical analysis of expected sensor performance and constrained platform behaviour to speed up implementation. The optical sensors provide relative position information between the platform and the asset, which enables human operator inputs to be autonomously adjusted to ensure safe separation. The assisted control approach is designed to reduced operator workload during close proximity inspection tasks, with collision avoidance and safe separation managed autonomously. The energy infrastructure includes single vertical wooden poles and crossarm with attached overhead wires. Simulated and real experimental results are provided.


Title: Active Structure-from-Motion for 3d Straight Lines
Key Words: mobile robots  observability  robot vision  visual servoing  Active Structure-from-Motion  planning  Image-Based Visual Servoing  control scheme  straight lines  control law  control effort  3D straight lines  convergence rate  3D parameter estimation  Three-dimensional displays  Cameras  Convergence  Eigenvalues and eigenfunctions  Robots  Observers 
Abstract: A reliable estimation of 3D parameters is a must for several applications like planning and control, in which is included Image-Based Visual Servoing. This control scheme depends directly on 3D parameters, e.g. depth of points, and/or depth and direction of 3D straight lines. Recently, a framework for Active Structure-from-Motion was proposed, addressing the former feature type. However, straight lines were not addressed. These are 1D objects, which allow for more robust detection, and tracking. In this work, the problem of Active Structure-from-Motion for 3D straight lines is addressed. An explicit representation of these features is presented, and a change of variables is proposed. The latter allows the dynamics of the line to respect the conditions for observability of the framework. A control law is used with the purpose of keeping the control effort reasonable, while achieving a desired convergence rate. The approach is validated first in simulation for a single line, and second using a real robot setup. The latter set of experiments are conducted first for a single line, and then for three lines.


Title: Robust Fixed-Wing UAV Guidance with Circulating Artificial Vector Fields
Key Words: aircraft control  asymptotic stability  autonomous aerial vehicles  control system synthesis  Lyapunov methods  robust control  vectors  constrained input controls  asymptotic stability  control law  robust fixed-wing UAV guidance  guidance vector field strategy  unmanned aerial vehicle  closed curve  control system  aircraft model  artificial vector fields  Convergence  Uncertainty  Atmospheric modeling  Aircraft  Three-dimensional displays  Unmanned aerial vehicles  Shape 
Abstract: This paper presents a guidance vector field strategy to control a fixed-wing UAV (unmanned aerial vehicle)subject to uncertainty in order to converge to and circulate a closed curve in ℝ3. The control system is designed based on a reference model of the airplane with constrained input controls. The law is independent of the vector field's structure, however, some analysis considers a consolidated vector field approach. Asymptotic stability is proven with Lyapunov Theory and ultimate bounds are found when bounded uncertainties are taken into account. The control law is continuous except in the surroundings of the unavoidable field's singularities. A theorem ensures asymptotic convergence when a switch is made. Simulations with a 6 DOF, 12 states realistic aircraft model demonstrate the efficiency of the strategy and its advantages.


Title: Development of MR Clutch for a Prospective 5 DOF Robot* This work was supported in part by Canada Foundation for Innovation (CFI) and Natural Sciences and Engineering Research Council (NSERC) of Canada under grant No.25031 and RGPIN-346166.
Key Words: clutches  design engineering  Hall effect transducers  intelligent sensors  machine control  magnetorheology  torque control  intrinsic torque control  mechanical design  prospective 5 DOF robot  MR clutch  magneto-rheological clutch  prospective 5 degrees of freedom robot  embedded Hall sensors  Torque  Magnetic sensors  Stators  Rotors  Robots  Wires 
Abstract: This paper presents an improved design approach for the construction of a Magneto-Rheological (MR) clutch intended to be used in a prospective 5 degrees of freedom robot. The MR clutch features embedded Hall sensors for intrinsic torque control. After a brief description of the MR clutch principles, the details of the mechanical design are discussed. Simulation and preliminary experimental results demonstrate the main characteristics and advantages of the proposed MR clutch.


Title: Modelling an Actuated Large Deformation Soft Continuum Robot Surface Undergoing External Forces Using a Lumped-Mass Approacb* Research supported by UK Engineering and Physical Sciences Research Council (EPSRC).
Key Words: compliant mechanisms  continuum mechanics  finite element analysis  manipulator dynamics  shear modulus  large deformation continuum surfaces  soft continuum robotic arms  3D integrated surface-arm model  lumped-mass methodology  soft robotics  Mathematical model  Robots  Load modeling  Deformable models  Strain  Actuators  Springs 
Abstract: Precise actuation of continuum surfaces in combination with continuum robotic arms that undergo large deformation is of high interest in soft robotics but of limited model-based study to date. This work develops this area towards enabling the robust design and control of large deformation continuum surfaces (LDCS) across multiple industrial applications in the healthcare, aerospace, manufacturing, and automotive domains. It introduces an actuation based dynamic model of LDCSs to accurately determine their deflection due to application of concentrated external forces while maintaining many physical characteristics and constraints on actuation elements and surface structure such as gravity, inertia, damping, elasticity, and interactive forces between actuators and LDCS. Using the lumped-mass methodology, a 3D integrated surface-arm model is developed, simulated and then validated experimentally where a pair of parallel arms are attached to the surface to actuate and deform it. The surface is then simultaneously subjected to a concentrated constant external force at its top center between the two arms. Comparing measured displacements between the experimental and modelling results over actuation time yielded the maximum error is less than 1% of the length of the surface's side at its final deflected profile despite the limited number of nodes (masses) used in the LDCS model while it is exposed to a significant external force.


Title: Computationally-Robust and Efficient Prioritized Whole-Body Controller with Contact Constraints
Key Words: force control  friction  humanoid robots  legged locomotion  mechanical contact  quadratic programming  robot dynamics  robust control  centroidal momentum dynamics  computationally-robust whole-body controller  quadratic program  passive-ankle bipedal robot  dynamic locomotion behaviors  smooth contact transitions  friction cone constraints  task accelerations  computational robustness  floating base dynamics  internal force constraints  contact reaction forces  operational task priorities  algorithmic computations  prioritized whole-body controllers  humanoid robots  multiobjective control  contact constraints  Task analysis  Null space  Dynamics  Acceleration  Robots  Force  Torque 
Abstract: In this paper, we devise methods for the multiobjective control of humanoid robots, a.k.a. prioritized whole-body controllers, that achieve efficiency and robustness in the algorithmic computations. We use a form of whole-body controllers that is very general via incorporating centroidal momentum dynamics, operational task priorities, contact reaction forces, and internal force constraints. First, we achieve efficiency by solving a quadratic program that only involves the floating base dynamics and the reaction forces. Second, we achieve computational robustness by relaxing task accelerations such that they comply with friction cone constraints. Finally, we incorporate methods for smooth contact transitions to enhance the control of dynamic locomotion behaviors. The proposed methods are demonstrated both in simulation and in real experiments using a passive-ankle bipedal robot.


Title: Continuously Shaping Projections and Operational Space Tasks
Key Words: least squares approximations  robots  projection operators  multiobjective robot control  dynamic task priority rearrangement  projection shaping  damped least squares  idempotent projectors  shaping operators  stack-of-tasks prioritization scheme  single task dimensions continuous priority rearrangement  Task analysis  Aerospace electronics  Jacobian matrices  Robots  Interference  Torque  Nickel 
Abstract: Projection operators are widely employed in multi-objective robot control. It is an open research question how to achieve continuous transitions between different idempotent projectors which is required for dynamic task priority rearrangement. We formalize projection shaping, providing a solution to deal with rank changes in a smooth fashion. Furthermore, we derive meaningful shaping operators and show that damped least squares is a special case of our general formulation. Finally, we extend the Stack-of-Tasks prioritization scheme for continuous priority rearrangement of single task dimensions. Simulation results validate our approach.


Title: Passivity Based Iterative Learning of Admittance-Coupled Dynamic Movement Primitives for Interaction with Changing Environments
Key Words: adaptive control  feedback  iterative learning control  learning systems  manipulator dynamics  motion control  path planning  admittance-coupled dynamic movement primitives  compact task representations  sensor-based goal adaptations  adaptive motion capabilities  learning process  environmental changes  contact wrench feedback dynamics  iterative learning approach  system passivity analysis  Kuka LWR robot  nonrigid contact  passivity based iterative learning  reference power tracking  Robots  Impedance  Trajectory  Force feedback  Dynamics  Task analysis  Admittance 
Abstract: Encoding desired motions into dynamic movement primitives (DMPs) is a common way for generating compact task representations that are able to handle sensor-based goal adaptations. At the same time, a robot should not only express adaptive motion capabilities at planning level, but use also contact wrench feedback in the adaptation and learning process of the DMP. Despite first approaches exist in this direction, no fully integrated approach has been proposed so far. In this paper, we introduce a new class of admittance-coupled DMPs that addresses environmental changes by including contact wrench feedback dynamics into the DMP formalism. Moreover, a novel iterative learning approach is devised that is based on monitoring the overall system passivity analysis in terms of reference power tracking. Simulations and experimental results with the Kuka LWR robot maintaining a non-rigid contact with the environment (wiping a surface) are shown for supporting the validity of our approach.


Title: Evaluating Robotic Devices of Non-Wearable Transferring Aids Using Whole-Body Robotic Simulator of the Elderly
Key Words: assisted living  geriatrics  handicapped aids  medical robotics  patient care  service robots  quantitative physical evaluation  whole-body robotic system  assistive robotic devices  physical assistance  nursing care  elderly person  whole-body robotic simulator  nonwearable transferring aids  Safety  Legged locomotion  Receivers  Senior citizens  Medical services 
Abstract: This paper describes the development of a whole-body robotic simulator of an elderly person for evaluating robotics devices for nursing care. To improve the quality of life of the elderly persons, physical assistance such as transfer, movement, and bathroom assistance is important. It is also important to reduce the workload of caregivers in an aging society. In recent years, assistive robotic devices for nursing care have been developed and commercialized for such purposes. However, such devices have not become popular in the care facilities yet. One of the reasons is that it is still difficult to evaluate the effects of the devices on the care receivers and caregivers. In particular, it is necessary to quantitatively evaluate the effect of the devices on the human body from the viewpoint of safety and comfort. We have developed a whole-body robotic system to simulate the pose and motion of the elderly persons. The purpose of this system is to realize quantitative physical evaluation of robotics devices for nursing care of the human body. The experimental results of the preliminary evaluation of assistive robotic devices are also presented.


Title: Automated Control of Multifunctional Magnetic Spores Using Fluorescence Imaging for Microrobotic Cargo Delivery
Key Words: cellular transport  collision avoidance  fluorescence  goods distribution  microrobots  mobile robots  nanoparticles  particle swarm optimisation  path planning  position control  quantum dots  tracking  trajectory control  Mag-Spore  fluorescence microscopy  fluorescence imaging  observer-based trajectory tracking controller  multifunctional magnetic Spores  microrobotic cargo delivery possesses  complex environmental conditions  obstructed optical feedback  automated control approach  microrobotic cargo carrier  multifunctional magnetic spore  Magnetic resonance imaging  Automation  Magnetic multilayers  Carbon  Stem cells  Optimization 
Abstract: Microrobotic cargo delivery possesses promising perspective for precision medicine, and has attracted much attention recently. However, its automation remains challenging, especially with complex environmental conditions, such as obstacles and obstructed optical feedback. In this paper, we propose an automated control approach for a new microrobotic cargo carrier, i. e. the multifunctional magnetic spore (Mag-Spore). By surface functionalization of the spore with Fe3O4 nanoparticles and carbon quantum dots, it can be remotely actuated and tracked by an electromagnetic coil system and the fluorescence microscopy, respectively. Our strategy utilizes fluorescence imaging for vision feedback, which enhances the recognition and tracking of Mag-Spores and cells. Then, information of the cells and Mag-Spores for planning and control is identified via image processing, and an optimal path planner with obstacle avoidance capability is designed based on the Particle Swarm Optimization (PSO)algorithm. To make the Mag-Spore follow the planed path accurately, an observer-based trajectory tracking controller is synthesized. Simulations and experiments are conducted to demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed control approach.


Title: Towards Autonomous Stratospheric Flight: A Generic Global System Identification Framework for Fixed-Wing Platforms
Key Words: aerodynamics  aerospace components  aircraft control  aircraft testing  autonomous aerial vehicles  error analysis  interpolation  Mach number  parameter estimation  Mach numbers  parameter identification techniques  fixed-wing platforms  flight test data  aerodynamic model  autonomous stratospheric flight  generic global system identification  high altitude long endurance fixed-wing aerial vehicles  extrapolation analysis  error analysis  autonomous missions  time efficient model  Aerodynamics  Atmospheric modeling  Aircraft  Mathematical model  Databases  Data models  Unmanned aerial vehicles 
Abstract: System identification of High Altitude Long Endurance fixed-wing aerial vehicles is challenging as its operating flight envelope covers wide ranges of altitudes and Mach numbers. We present a new global system identification framework geared towards such fixed-wing aerial platforms where the aim is to build a global aerodynamic model without many repetitions of local system identification procedures or the use of any aerodynamic database. Instead we apply parameter identification techniques to virtually created system identification data and update the identified parameters with available flight test data. The proposed framework was evaluated using data set outside the flight envelope of the available flight test data, i.e. at different airspeeds considering both interpolation and extrapolation scenarios. The error analysis has shown that the obtained longitudinal aerodynamic model can accurately predict the pitch rate and pitch angle, mostly within a tolerance of +1.5 degrees/s and +2 degrees respectively. Such a cost and time efficient model development framework enables high fidelity simulation and precise control which ultimately leads to higher success rates in autonomous missions.


Title: Design and Implementation of Cloud-Like Soft Drone S-Cloud
Key Words: aerodynamics  airships  attitude control  autonomous aerial vehicles  flow control  helium  prototypes  rotors (mechanical)  soft blimp part  center-pierced torus-shaped part  flow control mechanism  co-axial rotors  2-axis crossed flaps  cloud-like soft drone S-cloud  translational motion  helium gas  collision damage  altitude control  attitude control  vehicle translational movements  Newton-Euler formulation  prototypes  He  Rotors  Force  Drones  Helium  Vehicle dynamics  Buoyancy 
Abstract: This study presents a new drone, called S-CLOUD, developed for safe and long flight time. It provides 3-axial (x, y, and z)translational motion and stable hovering for more than an hour after takeoff. S-CLOUD consists of two parts; soft blimp part and driving one. The soft blimp is a center-pierced torus-shaped part filled with Helium gas. Thus, it is safe to fly near people because it is light and soft, and all its rotating parts are at the center of the vehicle, which does not get damaged on collision. The driving part is plugged into the center of the soft blimp and includes the flow control mechanism, which consists of co-axial rotors and 2-axis crossed flaps. It controls the altitude, attitude, and translational movements of the vehicle. Its dynamic and reaction features against disturbances are derived using Newton-Euler formulation, and the simulation results are discussed. Finally, a prototype of S-CLOUD is fabricated and its feasibility is experimentally validated with practical applications.


Title: Recovery Control for Quadrotor UAV Colliding with a Pole
Key Words: autonomous aerial vehicles  cameras  collision avoidance  helicopters  mobile robots  robot dynamics  robot vision  telerobotics  inertial onboard sensing  propeller-protected quadrotor UAV  collision recovery control solutions  poles  operator error  wind gusts  onboard cameras  microUAVs  air quality measurement  civil infrastructure inspection  police surveillance  disaster response  postcollision dynamics  onboard vision failure  Force  Collision avoidance  Mathematical model  Geometry  Drones  Aerodynamics  Propellers 
Abstract: Small quadrotor UAVs are projected to fly increasingly in urban environments for a wide variety of applications such as disaster response, police surveillance, civil infrastructure inspection, and air quality measurement. Micro UAVs can detect and avoid obstacles using onboard cameras; nevertheless, disturbances such as wind gusts, operator error, or failure of onboard vision can still result in dangerous collisions with objects. In the urban setting, the most predominant obstacles are walls and poles. With the aim of developing collision recovery control solutions for quadrotor UAVs, this paper investigates the collision dynamics between a propeller-protected quadrotor UAV and a vertical pole. Simulations provide insight into a quadrotor's post-collision dynamics and experimental trials demonstrate the feasibility of autonomously recovering to stable flight using only inertial onboard sensing in real-time.


Title: ArduSoar: An Open-Source Thermalling Controller for Resource-Constrained Autopilots
Key Words: aerospace components  aerospace simulation  aircraft control  autonomous aerial vehicles  resource-constrained autopilots  autonomous soaring capability  soaring controller  autopilot software suite  algorithmic standpoint  ArduPlane autopilot  parameter tuning  open-source thermalling controller  fixed-wing UAV  ArduSoars robustness  Aircraft  Atmospheric modeling  Computational modeling  Kalman filters  Mathematical model  Heating systems  Earth 
Abstract: Autonomous soaring capability has the potential to significantly increase time aloft for fixed-wing UAVs. In this paper, we introduce ArduSoar, the first soaring controller integrated into a major autopilot software suite for small UAVs. We describe ArduSoar from the algorithmic standpoint, outline its integration with the ArduPlane autopilot, discuss parameter tuning for it, and conduct a series of flight tests on real sUAVs that show ArduSoar's robustness even in highly nonideal atmospheric conditions.


Title: DROAN - Disparity-Space Representation for Obstacle Avoidance: Enabling Wire Mapping & Avoidance
Key Words: collision avoidance  graph theory  image segmentation  image sensors  mobile robots  motion control  neural nets  robot vision  stereo image processing  multiple disparity images  C-space expansion  disparity space representation  generic obstacles  wire pixels  confidence map  semantic segmentation paradigm  convolutional neural network  monocular wire detection  generic obstacle avoidance  robust autonomous aerial vehicles  depth estimation  DROAN - disparity-space representation  Wires  Robot sensing systems  Three-dimensional displays  Cameras  Trajectory  Uncertainty 
Abstract: Wire detection, depth estimation and avoidance is one of the hardest challenges towards the ubiquitous presence of robust autonomous aerial vehicles. We present an approach and a system which tackles these three challenges along with generic obstacle avoidance as well. First, we perform monocular wire detection using a convolutional neural network under the semantic segmentation paradigm, and obtain a confidence map of wire pixels. Along with this, we also use a binocular stereo pair to detect other generic obstacles. We represent wires and generic obstacles using a disparity space representation and do a C-space expansion by using a non-linear sensor model we develop. Occupancy inference for collision checking is performed by maintaining a pose graph over multiple disparity images. For avoidance of wire and generic obstacles, we use a precomputed trajectory library, which is evaluated in an online fashion in accordance to a cost function over proximity to the goal. We follow this trajectory with a path tracking controller. Finally, we demonstrate the effectiveness of our proposed method in simulation for wire mapping, and on hardware by multiple runs for both wire and generic obstacle avoidance.


Title: Robocentric Visual-Inertial Odometry
Key Words: distance measurement  inertial navigation  Kalman filters  mobile robots  Monte Carlo methods  motion estimation  nonlinear filters  position measurement  SLAM (robots)  robocentric EKF-based VINS  standard world-centric frameworks  R-VIO  real-world experiments  state-of-the-art VINS  robocentric visual-inertial odometry  visual-inertial navigation systems  consistent localization  challenging environments  monocular vision  moving local frame  standard world-centric VINS  global gravity vector  multistate constraint Kalman filter framework  visual-inertial odometry algorithm  global pose  high-accuracy relative motion  robocentric formulation  Robot sensing systems  Three-dimensional displays  Computational efficiency  Navigation  Standards  Gravity  Quaternions 
Abstract: In this paper, we propose a novel robocentric formulation of visual-inertial navigation systems (VINS)within a multi-state constraint Kalman filter (MSCKF)framework and develop an efficient, lightweight, robocentric visual-inertial odometry (R-VIO)algorithm for consistent localization in challenging environments using only monocular vision. The key idea of the proposed approach is to deliberately reformulate the 3D VINS with respect to a moving local frame (i.e., robocentric), rather than a fixed global frame of reference as in the standard world-centric VINS, and instead utilize high-accuracy relative motion estimates for global pose update. As an immediate advantage of using this robocentric formulation, the proposed R-VIO can start from an arbitrary pose, without the need to align its orientation with the global gravity vector. More importantly, we analytically show that the proposed robocentric EKF-based VINS does not undergo the observability mismatch issue as in the standard world-centric frameworks which was identified as the main cause of inconsistency of estimation. The proposed R-VIO is extensively tested through both Monte Carlo simulations and real-world experiments using different sensor platforms in different environments and shown to achieve competitive performance with the state-of-the-art VINS algorithms in terms of consistency, accuracy and efficiency.


Title: Interval-Based Cooperative Uavs Pose Domain Characterization from Images and Ranges
Key Words: autonomous aerial vehicles  constraint handling  control engineering computing  distance measurement  iterative methods  least squares approximations  mobile robots  pose estimation  robot vision  tree searching  pose uncertainty domains  interval constraint propagation techniques  simulated two-robots configurations  unmanned aerial vehicles  bounded error measurements  distances measurements  ground station  camera images  UAV  cooperative localization  branch and bound algorithm  nonlinear iterative weighted least squares  Cameras  Robot kinematics  Robot vision systems  Position measurement  Base stations 
Abstract: An interval-based approach to cooperative localization for a group of unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs) is proposed. It computes a pose uncertainty domain for each robot, i.e., a set that contains the true robot pose, assuming bounded error measurements. The algorithm combines distances measurements to the ground station and between UAVs, with the tracking of known landmarks in camera images, and provides a guaranteed enclosure of the robots pose domains. Pose uncertainty domains are computed using interval constraint propagation techniques, thanks to a branch and bound algorithm. We show that the proposed method also provides a good point estimate, that can be further refined using nonlinear iterative weighted least squares. Results are presented for simulated two-robots configurations, for experimental data, and compared with a classical Extended Kalman Filter.


Title: A Practical Method to Speed-Up the Experimental Procedure of Iterative Learning Controllers
Key Words: adaptive control  autonomous aerial vehicles  control system synthesis  iterative learning control  vehicle dynamics  traditional practice  ILC experiments  ILC signal  experimental data  accurate linear model  total experimental time  predicted system data  practical method  experimental procedure  iterative learning controllers  practical approach  lengthy experimentational processes  iterative learning control  low-order identified models  Trajectory  Data models  Optimization  Attitude control  Process control  Predictive models  Tracking 
Abstract: This paper proposes a practical approach for fastening the lengthy experimentational processes that may occur with iterative learning control (ILC) upto a certain level using simple low-order identified models. The traditional practice in ILC experiments is to update the ILC signal by directly using the experimental data after each run of the process which corresponds to one ILC update per one run. When considered from the point of experimental time, even conducting a moderate number of ILC updates can take quite long with this procedure. Since an accurate linear model can adequately represent the actual system upto a certain amplitude and/or frequency of the desired reference, we propose that the total experimental time can be reduced by updating the ILC signal via predicted system data until the limits of the linear model. This approach allows one to carry out large number of ILC updates while not needing to carry out the same amount of real experiments. Consequently, a significant number of experiments that would be needed for achieving the same results can be skipped with a simulation approach. The efficiency of the proposed method was tested through experimentation with three different UAV reference trajectories and the results demonstrated that it is possible to attain significant amount of tracking precision in several flight experiments.


Title: Motion Control of Piezo-Driven Stage via a Chattering-Free Sliding Mode Controller with Hysteresis Compensation
Key Words: compensation  control nonlinearities  hysteresis  Lyapunov methods  motion control  nonlinear control systems  piezoelectric actuators  stability  trajectory control  uncertain systems  variable structure systems  hysteresis compensation  trajectory tracking  piezo-driven stage  hysteresis nonlinearity  hysteresis model  motion control  chattering-free sliding mode controller  disturbance estimator  Lyapunov analysis  Hysteresis  Uncertainty  Sliding mode control  Stability analysis  Feedforward systems  Integrated circuit modeling 
Abstract: This paper presents a novel sliding mode controller for trajectory tracking of the piezo-driven stage. The tracking performance of piezoelectric actuator is mainly affected by the hysteresis nonlinearity. Sliding mode control is a possible solution to achieve better tracking performance. However, conventional sliding mode control generates discontinuous control signal which results in chattering. Hence, the hysteresis nonlinearity is first compensated with a hysteresis model, and an uncertainty and disturbance estimator is designed and included to devise a smooth control action. The stability of the proposed method is demonstrated via Lyapunov analysis. Both simulation and experiment are also conducted to verify the effectiveness of the proposed approach. The results are compared with a conventional sliding mode controller and a proportional-integral control with notch filter (PIC-NF).


Title: Learning Oscillator-Based Gait Controller for String-Form Soft Robots Using Parameter-Exploring Policy Gradients
Key Words: gradient methods  learning (artificial intelligence)  legged locomotion  mobile robots  actor-critic  oscillators  harness global entrainment  appropriate mechanosensor feedback  reinforcement learning technique  parameter-exploring policy gradients  string-form soft robots  oscillator-based gait controller  soft-bodied robots  appropriate learning method  episode based parameter updates  exploration noise  physical model  PEPG  simulation models  Robot sensing systems  Oscillators  Reinforcement learning  Force  Actuators  Springs 
Abstract: This paper presents a methodology to design mechanosensor feedback to oscillator-based controller for worm-like soft-bodied robots. A reinforcement learning technique, i.e., PEPG, is employed to embed appropriate mechanosensor feedback to harness global entrainment among the controller, the body dynamics, and the environment without explicitly designing the interaction between the oscillators. Another reinforcement learning, actor-critic, was applied to train the controller for the simulation models to analyze the effectiveness of PEPG in the system. Furthermore, the gait controller was trained under different body dynamics, i.e., the physical model of a caterpillar and an earthworm. We found that PEPG is suitable for the system probably because it does not add exploration noise to actions and it conducts episode based parameter updates. The simulation results show the proposed method can acquire distinct behavior, i.e., caterpillars' crawling, inching and earthworms' crawling, under different body dynamics. The outcome implies, that by utilizing appropriate learning method, desired functionality can be achieved in soft-bodied robots without explicitly designing their behavior.


Title: Modeling and Trajectory Tracking Control of a New Parallel Flexible Link Robot
Key Words: control system synthesis  elastic deformation  end effectors  finite element analysis  flexible manipulators  geometry  manipulator dynamics  tracking  trajectory control  arbitrary geometries  modal truncation  Component Mode Synthesis  underactuated robot  flexible model  trajectory tracking control  kinematic loop  elastic deformations  linear finite element models  parallel flexible link robot  compliant lightweight robot  end-effector  Robots  Strain  Finite element analysis  Trajectory tracking  Kinematics  Mathematical model  Shape 
Abstract: A completely new compliant lightweight robot is presented with a kinematic loop and a highly flexible link. It is explained how to model such parallel robots accurately but still computationally efficient. The elastic deformations are described with the floating frame of reference approach. For the flexible components this allows to use linear finite element models, which can represent arbitrary geometries. These models are further reduced by modal truncation and a Component Mode Synthesis minimizing the number of elastic degrees of freedom, which is necessary for real-time control purposes. The obtained model of the underactuated robot is non-minimum phase for the end-effector as output. Thus, for the applied trajectory tracking controller which is based on servo constraints, the concept of stable inversion is used. The performance is compared to a relocated minimum phase output. Corresponding simulations are validated by first experimental results showing the need for and high accuracy of the flexible model and the trajectory tracking control.


Title: RG-Trees: Trajectory-Free Feedback Motion Planning Using Sparse Random Reference Governor Trees
Key Words: collision avoidance  feedback  mobile robots  motion control  robust control  sampling methods  trajectory control  trees (mathematics)  trajectory-free feedback motion planning  high dimensional configuration spaces  complex environments  open-loop trajectories  feedback control policies  dynamic robot  planned path  spatial constraints  statistical sampling techniques  control methods  feedback control theory perspective  constraint enforcement  feedback motion planner  trajectory-free novel feedback motion planning algorithm  random trees  tree part  collision-free region  connected simple polygonal regions  reference governor part  tree structure  RG-trees  sparse random reference governor  sampling based methods  Robots  Heuristic algorithms  Planning  Collision avoidance  Dynamics  Aerospace electronics  Navigation 
Abstract: Sampling based methods resulted in feasible and effective motion planning algorithms for high dimensional configuration spaces and complex environments. A vast majority of such algorithms as well as their application rely on generating a set of open-loop trajectories first, which are then tracked by feedback control policies. However, controlling a dynamic robot to follow the planned path, while respecting the spatial constraints originating from the obstacles is still a challenging problem. There are some studies which combine statistical sampling techniques and feedback control methods which address this challenge using different approaches. From the feedback control theory perspective, Reference Governors proved to be a useful framework for constraint enforcement. Very recently, Arslan and Koditschek (2017) introduced a feedback motion planner that utilizes Reference Governors that provably solves the motion planning problem in simplified spherical worlds. In this context, here we propose a “trajectory-free” novel feedback motion planning algorithm which combines the two ideas: random trees and reference governors. Random tree part of the algorithm generates a collision-free region as a set of connected simple polygonal regions. Then, reference governor part navigates the dynamic robot from one region to the adjacent region in the tree structure, ensuring it stays inside the current region and asymptotically reaches to the connected region. Eventually, our algorithm robustly routes the robot from the start location to the goal location without collision. We demonstrate the validity and feasibility of the algorithm on simulation studies.


Title: Robot Imitation Through Vision, Kinesthetic and Force Features with Online Adaptation to Changing Environments
Key Words: evolutionary computation  humanoid robots  human-robot interaction  optimisation  robot vision  trajectory control  optimization problem  continuous goal-directed actions  robot joint trajectories  online evolved trajectories  force features  iron actions  TEO full-sized humanoid robot  motor execution  CGDA execution  online evolutionary strategies  evolutionary algorithms  robot imitation framework  Trajectory  Robot sensing systems  Feature extraction  Force  Planning  Paints 
Abstract: Continuous Goal-Directed Actions (CGDA)is a robot imitation framework that encodes actions as the changes they produce on the environment. While it presents numerous advantages with respect to other robot imitation frameworks in terms of generalization and portability, final robot joint trajectories for the execution of actions are not necessarily encoded within the model. This is studied as an optimization problem, and the solution is computed through evolutionary algorithms in simulated environments. Evolutionary algorithms require a large number of evaluations, which had made the use of these algorithms in real world applications very challenging. This paper presents online evolutionary strategies, as a change of paradigm within CGDA execution. Online evolutionary strategies shift and merge motor execution into the planning loop. A concrete online evolutionary strategy, Online Evolved Trajectories (OET), is presented. OET drastically reduces computational times between motor executions, and enables working in real world dynamic environments and/or with human collaboration. Its performance has been measured against Full Trajectory Evolution (FTE)and Incrementally Evolved Trajectories (IET), obtaining the best overall results. Experimental evaluations are performed on the TEO full-sized humanoid robot with “paint” and “iron” actions that together involve vision, kinesthetic and force features.


Title: Learning Coordinated Vehicle Maneuver Motion Primitives from Human Demonstration
Key Words: control engineering computing  decision making  learning (artificial intelligence)  mobile robots  motion control  path planning  road vehicles  vehicle dynamics  human-vehicle interaction simulation framework  driving motions  vehicle maneuver motion primitives  driving decision-making  vehicle design  human demonstration  vehicle dynamics  motion control  motion primitive library  longitudinal vehicle control  motion reproduction  dynamic motion primitives  imitation learning methods  fixed-base driving simulation  vehicle maneuver motion planning  Vehicles  Computational modeling  Task analysis  Motion segmentation  Vehicle dynamics  Hidden Markov models  Dynamics 
Abstract: High-fidelity computational human models provide a safe and cost-efficient method for studying driver experience in vehicle maneuvers and for validation of vehicle design. Compared to passive human models, active human models capable of reproducing the decision-making, as well as vehicle maneuver motion planning and control, will be able to support realistic simulation of human-vehicle interaction. In this paper, we propose an integrated human-vehicle interaction simulation framework which learns vehicle maneuver motion primitives from human drivers, and uses them to compose natural and contextual driving motions. Specifically, we recruited six experienced drivers and recorded their vehicle maneuver motions on a fixed-base driving simulation testbed. We further segmented and classified the collected data based on their similarity in joint coordination. Using a combination of imitation learning methods, we extracted the regularity and variability of vehicle maneuver motions across subjects, and learned the dynamic motion primitives to be used for motion reproduction in simulation. We present an implementation of the framework on lower-extremity joint coordination in pedal activation for longitudinal vehicle control. Our research efforts lead to a motion primitive library which enables planning natural driver motions, and will be integrated with the driving decision-making, motion control, and vehicle dynamics in the proposed framework for simulating human-vehicle interaction.


Title: Inverse Learning of Robot Behavior for Collaborative Planning
Key Words: behavioural sciences computing  decision making  learning (artificial intelligence)  mobile robots  multi-robot systems  optimisation  planning (artificial intelligence)  robots decision making  TurtleBots  Phantom X arms  line robots behavior  collaborative planning problem  colored-ball sorting task  unripe fruit  ripe fruit  IRL  inverse reinforcement learning  Task analysis  Planning  Robot kinematics  Sorting  Teamwork 
Abstract: Inverse reinforcement learning (IRL) is an important basis for learning from demonstrations. Observing an agent, human or robotic, perform a task provides information and facilitates learning the task. We show how the agent's preferences learned using IRL can be incorporated in a subject robot's decision making and planning, to enable the robot to spontaneously collaborate with the previously observed agent on the task. We prioritize a real-world application, where a line robot will autonomously collaborate with another robot in sorting ripe and unripe fruit such as oranges. Toward this, our evaluations utilize a colored-ball sorting task as an analog using simulated TurtleBots equipped with Phantom X arms. Our method is comprehensive providing first answers to questions such as how should the robot acquire the complete model for the collaborative planning problem and how should it solve the problem to obtain a plan that permits collaboration without disrupting the line robot's behavior.


Title: Contingent Contact-Based Motion Planning
Key Words: manipulators  mobile robots  path planning  robust control  POMDP-based planners  contingent contact-based motion planning  contact sensing capability  manipulation planner  conformant planners  high-dimensional configuration spaces  Robot sensing systems  Uncertainty  Planning  Partitioning algorithms  Vegetation 
Abstract: A robot with contact sensing capability can reduce uncertainty relative to the environment by deliberately moving into contact and matching the resulting contact measurement to different possible states in the world. We present a manipulation planner that finds and sequences these actions by reasoning explicitly about the uncertainty over the robot's state. The planner incrementally constructs a policy that covers all possible contact states during a manipulation and finds contingencies for each of them. In contrast to conformant planners (without contingencies), the planned contingent policies are more robust. We demonstrate this in simulated and real-world manipulation experiments. In contrast to POMDP-based planners, we show that our planner can be directly applied to high-dimensional configuration spaces.


Title: Optimizing Sensor Placement: A Mixture Model Framework Using Stable Poses and Sparsely Precomputed Pose Uncertainty Predictions
Key Words: image sensors  mobile robots  optimisation  pose estimation  probability  robot vision  sensor placement  computer vision system  mixture model framework  sensor placement optimization  robotics tasks  pose estimation  probability distribution  primesense carmine  Robot sensing systems  Uncertainty  Computational modeling  Task analysis  Optimization  Measurement 
Abstract: In many robotics tasks successful execution requires high precision pose estimates of the objects in the workcell. When the object pose is provided by a computer vision system it is therefore crucial that the vision system is configured such that the required precision is achieved. An important part of the configuration is the sensor placement, however, most work in the field of sensor placement does not take the random, semi-constrained nature of the initial object pose into account. This paper presents a framework which uses an analysis of object stable poses together with dynamic simulation to predict the probability distribution of initial object poses. The framework is highly modular and uses precomputed pose uncertainties and a mixture model to make the integration over all possible stable poses feasible. This makes the framework applicable to a wide range of sensors and uncertainty models. The framework is evaluated in simulation for a concrete example: A single PrimeSense Carmine to be placed at an optimal elevation angle in a table picking scenario where pose uncertainties are modeled using Gaussians.


Title: Transferring Visuomotor Learning from Simulation to the Real World for Robotics Manipulation Tasks
Key Words: calibration  humanoid robots  learning (artificial intelligence)  manipulators  motion control  neural nets  robot vision  stereo image processing  robotic manipulation tasks  physical iCub robot  joint measurements  systematic error  accurate joint estimates  visuomotor predictor  image-to-image translation approach  physical robot  sensing error  unavoidable sources  underlying head configuration  stereo image pair  visuomotor deep neural network predictor  hand-eye coordination task  iCub humanoid  complex robots  accurate hand-eye coordination  visuomotor learning  Robot kinematics  Head  Task analysis  Robot sensing systems  Visualization  Manipulators 
Abstract: Hand-eye coordination is a requirement for many manipulation tasks including grasping and reaching. However, accurate hand-eye coordination has shown to be especially difficult to achieve in complex robots like the iCub humanoid. In this work, we solve the hand-eye coordination task using a visuomotor deep neural network predictor that estimates the arm's joint configuration given a stereo image pair of the arm and the underlying head configuration. As there are various unavoidable sources of sensing error on the physical robot, we train the predictor on images obtained from simulation. The images from simulation were modified to look realistic using an image-to-image translation approach. In various experiments, we first show that the visuomotor predictor provides accurate joint estimates of the iCub's hand in simulation. We then show that the predictor can be used to obtain the systematic error of the robot's joint measurements on the physical iCub robot. We demonstrate that a calibrator can be designed to automatically compensate this error. Finally, we validate that this enables accurate reaching of objects while circumventing manual fine-calibration of the robot.


Title: Exploring Vestibulo-Ocular Adaptation in a Closed-Loop Neuro-Robotic Experiment Using STDP. A Simulation Study
Key Words: brain models  closed loop systems  control engineering computing  humanoid robots  neural nets  neural system  Neuro-robotic Platform  NRP  vestibulo ocular cerebellar adaptatIon  STDP mechanisms  cerebellar molecular layer  r-VOR adaptation  spiking cerebellar model  r-VOR task  perception-action closed-loop  vestibulo-ocular reflex  humanoid robot  iCub robot  cerebellar properties  Robot sensing systems  Neurons  Adaptation models  Transfer functions  Task analysis  Optical fiber networks 
Abstract: Studying and understanding the computational primitives of our neural system requires for a diverse and complementary set of techniques. In this work, we use the Neuro-robotic Platform (NRP)to evaluate the vestibulo ocular cerebellar adaptatIon (Vestibulo-ocular reflex, VOR)mediated by two STDP mechanisms located at the cerebellar molecular layer and the vestibular nuclei respectively. This simulation study adopts an experimental setup (rotatory VOR)widely used by neuroscientists to better understand the contribution of certain specific cerebellar properties (i.e. distributed STDP, neural properties, coding cerebellar topology, etc.)to r-VOR adaptation. The work proposes and describes an embodiment solution for which we endow a simulated humanoid robot (iCub)with a spiking cerebellar model by means of the NRP, and we face the humanoid to an r-VOR task. The results validate the adaptive capabilities of the spiking cerebellar model (with STDP)in a perception-action closed-loop (r- VOR)causing the simulated iCub robot to mimic a human behavior.


Title: Flatness-Based Model Predictive Control for Quadrotor Trajectory Tracking
Key Words: control system synthesis  convex programming  feedback  feedforward  helicopters  nonlinear control systems  nonlinear programming  position control  predictive control  quadratic programming  stability  trajectory control  quadrotor trajectory tracking  trajectory tracking performance  constraint satisfaction  differentially flat nonlinear systems  FMPC couples feedback model predictive control  linear model predictive control  couple model predictive control  nonlinear model  control approaches  flatness-based model predictive control approach  Feedforward systems  Predictive control  Feedback linearization  Robustness  Computational modeling  Predictive models  Trajectory 
Abstract: The use of model predictive control for quadro-tor applications requires balancing trajectory tracking performance and constraint satisfaction with fast computation. This paper proposes a Flatness-based Model Predictive Control (FMPC) approach that can be applied to quadrotors, and more generally, differentially flat nonlinear systems. Our proposed FMPC couples feedback model predictive control with feedforward linearization. The proposed approach has the computational advantage that, similar to linear model predictive control, it only requires solving a convex quadratic program instead of a nonlinear program. However, unlike linear model predictive control, we still account for the nonlinearity in the model through the use of an inverse term. In simulation, we demonstrate improved robustness over approaches that couple model predictive control with feedback linearization. In experiments using quadrotor vehicles, we also demonstrate improved trajectory tracking compared to classical linear and nonlinear model predictive control approaches.


Title: Model Predictive Trajectory Tracking and Collision Avoidance for Reliable Outdoor Deployment of Unmanned Aerial Vehicles
Key Words: autonomous aerial vehicles  collision avoidance  feedback  mobile robots  multi-robot systems  predictive control  state feedback  trajectory control  prediction horizon  decentralized collision avoidance system  fast nonlinear feedback  virtual UAV  translational dynamics  nonlinear state feedback  linear model predictive controller  optimal trajectory tracking  unmanned aerial vehicles  model predictive trajectory tracking  priority-based collision resolution strategy  tracking mechanism  in-advance collision-free planning  linear MPC  Trajectory  Collision avoidance  Unmanned aerial vehicles  Robot kinematics  Planning  Robot sensing systems 
Abstract: We propose a novel approach for optimal trajectory tracking for unmanned aerial vehicles (UAV), using a linear model predictive controller (MPC) in combination with non-linear state feedback. The solution relies on fast onboard simulation of the translational dynamics of the UAV, which is guided by a linear MPC. By sampling the states of the virtual UAV, we create a control command for fast non-linear feedback, which is capable of performing agile maneuvers with high precision. In addition, the proposed pipeline provides an interface for a decentralized collision avoidance system for multi-UAY scenarios. Our solution makes use of the long prediction horizon of the linear MPC and allows safe outdoors execution of multi-UAV experiments without the need for in-advance collision-free planning. The practicality of the tracking mechanism is shown in combination with priority-based collision resolution strategy, which performs sufficiently in experiments with up to 5 UAVs. We present a statistical and experimental evaluation of the platform in both simulation and real-world examples, demonstrating the usability of the approach.


Title: The RobotriX: An Extremely Photorealistic and Very-Large-Scale Indoor Dataset of Sequences with Robot Trajectories and Interactions
Key Words: control engineering computing  image colour analysis  image resolution  learning (artificial intelligence)  rendering (computer graphics)  robot vision  trajectory control  virtual reality  RobotriX  extremely photorealistic indoor dataset  very-large-scale indoor dataset  robot trajectories  deep learning techniques  robotic vision problems  hyperrealistic indoor scenes  robot agents  Unreal Engine  virtual reality headset  robotic hands  ground truth labels  3D robotic vision tasks  large-scale data-driven techniques  UnrealCV  full HD resolution  RGB-D  2D robotic vision tasks  Robots  Three-dimensional displays  Trajectory  Deep learning  Image resolution  Rendering (computer graphics)  Layout 
Abstract: Enter the RobotriX, an extremely photorealistic indoor dataset designed to enable the application of deep learning techniques to a wide variety of robotic vision problems. The RobotriX consists of hyperrealistic indoor scenes which are explored by robot agents which also interact with objects in a visually realistic manner in that simulated world. Photorealistic scenes and robots are rendered by Unreal Engine into a virtual reality headset which captures gaze so that a human operator can move the robot and use controllers for the robotic hands; scene information is dumped on a per-frame basis so that it can be reproduced offline using UnrealCV to generate raw data and ground truth labels. By taking this approach, we were able to generate a dataset of 38 semantic classes across 512 sequences totaling 8M stills recorded at +60 frames per second with full HD resolution. For each frame, RGB-D and 3D information is provided with full annotations in both spaces. Thanks to the high quality and quantity of both raw information and annotations, the RobotriX will serve as a new milestone for investigating 2D and 3D robotic vision tasks with large-scale data-driven techniques.


Title: Active Object Perceiver: Recognition-Guided Policy Learning for Object Searching on Mobile Robots
Key Words: indoor navigation  learning (artificial intelligence)  mobile robots  neural nets  object recognition  robot vision  AI2-THOR dataset  action prediction mechanism  deep reinforcement learning  visual navigation  indoor environment  mobile robots  recognition-guided policy learning  active object perceiver  object searching task  physical robot  object recognition module  deep neural network  Robots  Task analysis  Object recognition  Navigation  Search problems  Visualization  Neural networks 
Abstract: We study the problem of learning a navigation policy for a robot to actively search for an object of interest in an indoor environment solely from its visual inputs. While scene-driven visual navigation has been widely studied, prior efforts on learning navigation policies for robots to find objects are limited. The problem is often more challenging than target scene finding as the target objects can be very small in the view and can be in an arbitrary pose. We approach the problem from an active perceiver perspective, and propose a novel framework that integrates a deep neural network based object recognition module and a deep reinforcement learning based action prediction mechanism. To validate our method, we conduct experiments on both a simulation dataset (AI2-THOR)and a real-world environment with a physical robot. We further propose a new decaying reward function to learn the control policy specific to the object searching task. Experimental results validate the efficacy of our method, which outperforms competing methods in both average trajectory length and success rate.


Title: A Family of Iterative Gauss-Newton Shooting Methods for Nonlinear Optimal Control
Key Words: closed loop systems  computational complexity  iterative methods  linear quadratic control  nonlinear control systems  predictive control  iterative algorithms  unconstrained nonlinear optimal control  iLQR algorithm  closed-loop forward integration  linear complexity  multiple shooting algorithms  nonlinear model predictive control applications  computational complexity  high-dimensional underactuated robot  iterative Gauss-Newton shooting methods  Optimal control  Trajectory  Heuristic algorithms  Prediction algorithms  Robots  System dynamics  Convergence  Numerical Optimal Control  Trajectory Optimization  Multiple Shooting  Quadrupedal Robots  Nonlinear Model Predictive Control  Differential Dynamic Programming 
Abstract: This paper introduces a family of iterative algorithms for unconstrained nonlinear optimal control. We generalize the well-known iLQR algorithm to different multiple shooting variants, combining advantages like straightforward initialization and a closed-loop forward integration. All algorithms have similar computational complexity, i.e. linear complexity in the time horizon, and can be derived in the same computational framework. We compare the full-step variants of our algorithms and present several simulation examples, including a high-dimensional underactuated robot subject to contact switches. Simulation results show that our multiple shooting algorithms can achieve faster convergence, better local contraction rates and much shorter runtimes than classical iLQR, which makes them a superior choice for nonlinear model predictive control applications.


Title: Weighted Hybrid Admittance-Impedance Control with Human Intention Based Stiffness Estimation for Human-Robot Interaction
Key Words: biomechanics  control engineering computing  elastic constants  haptic interfaces  human-robot interaction  manipulator dynamics  vibrations  human intention based stiffness estimation  HRI device  frequency analysis  input response simulation  vibration magnitude  virtual wall collision  control distribution ratios  physical collaboration operations  human-robot interaction device  weighted hybrid admittance-impedance control  Impedance  Admittance  Force  Manipulators  Stability analysis  Mathematical model 
Abstract: In a human-robot interaction (HRI) device that performs physical collaboration operations in constant contact with the user, admittance control and impedance control are generally used. Since the two controllers exhibit opposite performances depending on the stiffness condition, controllers capable of dealing with various magnitudes of stiffness are required. As such, this study proposes hybrid control that adjusts the control distribution ratios of admittance control and impedance control based on the operating frequency analysis to react to the user intention and various stiffness conditions in real time. The proposed controller algorithm exhibited lower overshoot than impedance control in the step input response simulation, faster response speed compared to admittance control in the response simulation for 0-5 Hz input frequencies, and the smallest vibration magnitude and number of vibrations in the case of a virtual wall collision, resulting in improved performance compared to existing control methods.


Title: Coverage Path Planning with Adaptive Viewpoint Sampling to Construct 3D Models of Complex Structures for the Purpose of Inspection
Key Words: autonomous aerial vehicles  image sampling  mobile robots  path planning  robot vision  search problems  adaptive search space coverage path planner  unmanned aerial vehicle  coverage path planning  adaptive sampling  onboard sensors  reference model  accurate 3D models  complex structure  adaptive viewpoint sampling  Sensors  Adaptation models  Path planning  Solid modeling  Entropy  Clustering algorithms  Octrees 
Abstract: In this paper, we introduce a coverage path planning algorithm with adaptive viewpoint sampling to construct accurate 3D models of complex large structures using Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV). The developed algorithm, Adaptive Search Space Coverage Path Planner (ASSCPP), utilizes an existing 3D reference model of the complex structure and the onboard sensors' noise models to generate paths that are evaluated based on the traveling distance and the quality of the model. The algorithm generates a set of viewpoints by performing adaptive sampling that directs the search towards areas with low accuracy and low coverage. The algorithm predicts the coverage percentage obtained by following the generated coverage path using the reference model. A set of experiments were conducted in real and simulated environments with structures of different complexities to test the validity of the proposed algorithm.


Title: Towards an Autonomous Robotic Dragonfly: At-Scale Lift Experiments Modeling Dragonfly Forewings
Key Words: aerodynamics  aerospace components  aerospace robotics  bending  carbon fibres  design engineering  mobile robots  piezoelectric actuators  polymer films  robot kinematics  sensors  hindwing pair  Sympetrum san-guineum  flapping kinematics  carbon-fiber support structure  polyester film  polymide-film joints  piezoelectric bending-beam actuator  lift sensor  Sympetrum sanguineum  autonomous robotic dragonfly  artificial dragonfly forewings  Insects  Aerodynamics  Actuators  Resonant frequency  Frequency measurement  Carbon  Power supplies 
Abstract: We report on lift experiments conducted at scale for an artificial platform mimicking the dragonfly species: Sympetrum sanguineum. The platform, as well as the lift sensor, was custom designed and built. The flapping mechanism consisted of a piezoelectric bending-beam actuator, transmission using carbon-fiber elements and polymide-film joints, and wings constructed of polyester film with carbon-fiber support structure. The flapping kinematics of the Sympetrum san-guineum was replicated as closely as possible although only a pair of forewings were used in these experiments. The lift generated, when accounting for the addition of a pair of hindwings, is sufficient to allow for the hovering of a real-life dragonfly. The results, the first at-scale fully transient measurements of artificial dragonfly forewings, show that the lift curves quantitatively as well as qualitatively validate existing 2D and 3D computer simulations of dragonfly forewings.


Title: Evolving a Sensory-Motor Interconnection for Dynamic Quadruped Robot Locomotion Behavior
Key Words: legged locomotion  optimisation  robot dynamics  trees (mathematics)  dynamic quadruped robot locomotion  sensory-motor coordination model  sensory neurons  neural oscillator  bacterial programming  sensory-motor interconnection structure  tree structure optimization  gene transfer process  bacterial mutation  Neurons  Legged locomotion  Robot sensing systems  Microorganisms  Robot kinematics  Optimization 
Abstract: In this paper, we present a novel biologically inspired evolving neural oscillator for quadruped robot locomotion to minimize constraints during the locomotion process. The proposed sensory-motor coordination model is formed by the interconnection between motor and sensory neurons. The model utilizes Bacterial Programming to reconstruct the number of joints and neurons in each joint based on environmental conditions. Bacterial Programming is inspired by the evolutionary process of bacteria that includes bacterial mutation and gene transfer process. In this system, either the number of joints, the number of neurons, or the interconnection structure are changing dynamically depending on the sensory information from sensors equipped on the robot. The proposed model is simulated in computer for realizing the optimization process and the optimized structure is then applied to a real quadruped robot for locomotion process. The optimizing process is based on tree structure optimization to simplify the sensory-motor interconnection structure. The proposed model was validated by series of real robot experiments in different environmental conditions.


Title: Learning-based Path Tracking Control of a Flapping-wing Micro Air Vehicle
Key Words: aerodynamics  aerospace simulation  autonomous aerial vehicles  learning (artificial intelligence)  mobile robots  neurocontrollers  predictive control  vehicle dynamics  autonomous flight  neural network  MPC  Reynolds number  model predictive control  model-based control strategy  FWMAV  flapping-wing microair vehicle  path tracking control  Batteries  Training  Neural networks  Dynamics  Data models  Trajectory  Vehicle dynamics 
Abstract: Flapping-wing micro air vehicles (FWMAVs) become promising research platforms due to their advantages such as various maneuverability, and concealment. However, unsteady flow at low Reynolds number around the wings makes their dynamics time-varying and highly non-linear. It makes autonomous flight of FWMAV as a big challenge. In this paper, we suggest a model-based control strategy for FWMAV using learning architecture. For this task, we construct a ground station for logging flight data and control inputs, and train dynamics with a neural network. Then, we apply model predictive control (MPC) to the trained model. We validate our method by hardware experiments.


Title: Dual-Arm Coordinated Motion Planning and Compliance Control for Capturing Moving Objects with Large Momentum
Key Words: compliance control  force control  Jacobian matrices  manipulators  motion control  optimal control  path planning  trajectory control  dual-arm coordinated motion planning  dual-arm robot  operational force control  dual-arm capturing motion  object tracking  compliance control  null-space projected relative Jacobian  collocation trajectory optimization  Planning  Force  Robot kinematics  Jacobian matrices  Trajectory  Tracking 
Abstract: Capturing a moving object with large momentum by a dual-arm robot is especially challenging because of the requirement of dual-arm coordinated motion planning for tracking the moving object, and the operational force control for contact and momentum transfer. In this paper, we present a dual-arm coordinated motion planning and compliance control method with a unique null-space projected relative Jacobian and relative operational force between the two arms. The proposed method is able to plan dual-arm capturing motion and control the capturing force without disturbing the tracking motion. We have also adopted a direct collocation trajectory optimization method to generate optimal trajectory to decrease the object's momentum with minimum effort. Simulation and experiment of dual-arm robots picking up a moving box on a mobile platform are carried out to verify the proposed method.


Title: Motion Planning for an Underwater Mobile Manipulator by Exploiting Loose Coupling
Key Words: autonomous underwater vehicles  manipulators  motion control  path planning  trajectory control  intervention autonomous underwater vehicle  MR-MHA *  multirepresentation multiheuristic A*  realistic simulated underwater intervention environment  intervention mission  generated trajectories  high-dimensional underwater manipulator  search-based planner  motion coordination  complex manipulation tasks  floating-based intervention  task-priority redundancy control framework  GIRONA 500  SAUVIM  autonomous manipulation skills  I-AUV  underwater mobile manipulator  motion planning  Task analysis  Planning  Manipulators  Search problems  Trajectory  Kinematics 
Abstract: Intervention Autonomous Underwater Vehicle or I-AUV has recently started to grab researchers attention in the last 20 years. Only three I-AUVs have demonstrated autonomous manipulation skills: ALIVE, SAUVIM and GIRONA 500. While prior systems rely on variations of the task-priority redundancy control framework, our recent research showed preliminary results using motion planning for floating-based intervention in the presence of obstacles. With the increasing need for autonomously performing more complex manipulation tasks, two main challenges need to be addressed: the high-dimensionality of the system, and the motion coordination between the mobile base and the working arm. The latter challenge is of high importance if accurate execution is required, especially considering the floating nature of the AUV and the control challenges that come with it. Our approach relies on exploiting the loose coupling between the AUV and the arm. In particular we present an approach based on MR-MHA * (Multi-Representation, Multi-Heuristic A*), and we show how it can generate efficient trajectories by exploiting decoupling. We show for the first time the use of a search-based planner on a high-dimensional underwater manipulator. In addition, we support our claims with experimental analysis of the generated trajectories with respect to various metrics in different environments. Furthermore, we demonstrate the ability of our approach to conduct a full intervention mission in a realistic simulated underwater intervention environment.


Title: Dynamic Model Learning and Manipulation Planning for Objects in Hospitals Using a Patient Assistant Mobile (PAM)Robot
Key Words: collision avoidance  hospitals  manipulator dynamics  medical robotics  mobile robots  predictive control  probability  PAM robot  probabilistic method  2-wheel walker  autonomous learning  fall prevention  maneuvers mobility aids  patient assistant mobile robot  dynamic model learning  collision-free manipulation  4-legged walker  hybrid MPC-based manipulation planning algorithm  one-wheel point-mass model  hybrid control system  motion interactions  minimal force  approximate dynamic model  Legged locomotion  Dynamics  Planning  Manipulator dynamics  Grippers 
Abstract: One of the most concerning and costly problems in hospitals is patients falls. We address this problem by introducing PAM, a patient assistant mobile robot, that maneuvers mobility aids to assist with fall prevention. Common objects found inside hospitals include objects with legs (i.e. walkers, tables, chairs, equipment stands). For a mobile robot operating in such environments, safely maneuvering these objects without collision is essential. Since providing the robot with dynamic models of all possible legged objects that may exist in such environments is not feasible, autonomous learning of an approximate dynamic model for these objects would significantly improve manipulation planning. We describe a probabilistic method to do this by fitting pre-categorized object models learned from minimal force and motion interactions with an object. In addition, we account for multiple manipulation strategies, which requires a hybrid control system comprised of discrete grasps on legs and continuous applied forces. To do this, we use a simple one-wheel point-mass model. A hybrid MPC-based manipulation planning algorithm was developed to compensate for modeling errors. While the proposed algorithm applies to a broad range of legged objects, we only show results for the case of a 2-wheel, 4-legged walker in this paper. Simulation and experimental tests show that the obtained dynamic model is sufficiently accurate for safe and collision-free manipulation. When combined with the proposed manipulation planning algorithm, the robot can successfully move the object to a desired position without collision.


Title: Improving Repeatability of Experiments by Automatic Evaluation of SLAM Algorithms
Key Words: robot vision  SLAM (robots)  SLAM algorithms  robotics  repeatability  Simultaneous Localization And Mapping  Simultaneous localization and mapping  Buildings  Measurement  Data models  Lasers 
Abstract: The development of good experimental methodologies for robotics takes often inspiration from general principles of experimental practice. Repeatability prescribes that experiments should involve several trials in order to guarantee that results are not achieved by chance, but are systematic, and statistically significant trends can be identified. In this paper, we propose an approach to improve the repeatability of experiments performed in robotics. In particular, we focus on the domain of SLAM (Simultaneous Localization And Mapping) and we introduce a system that exploits simulations to generate a large number of test data on which SLAM algorithms are automatically evaluated in order to obtain consistent results, according to the principle of repeatability.


Title: Real-Time Feature Depth Estimation for Image-Based Visual ServOing
Key Words: cameras  feature selection  nonlinear control systems  observability  observers  reduced order systems  robot vision  stability  visual servoing  nonlinear reduced-order observer structure  global asymptotic convergence property  restrictive observability condition  depth observer  camera calibration error  image-based visual servoing schemes  interaction matrix  real-time feature depth estimation  Observers  Cameras  Convergence  Visual servoing  Acceleration 
Abstract: Without the 3-D geometry of the target and robust to camera calibration error, image-based visual servoing schemes have gained a lot of attention. However, the depth of the selected feature, which is involved in the interaction matrix relating the time variation of the feature to the velocity twist of the camera, must be estimated correctly to guarantee the stability of the controller. To this end, this paper proposes a new nonlinear reduced-order observer structure to recover the feature depth in real time. Compared with the existing works, the proposed observer has a global asymptotic convergence property and fast convergence rate, and the convergence rate can be easily adjusted only using a single gain parameter. In addition, the proposed observer has a less restrictive observability condition and stronger robustness to noisy measurements. Extensive comparative numerical simulations are carried out to validate the effectiveness of the proposed depth observer.


Title: Guaranteed Coverage with a Blind Unreliable Robot
Key Words: graph theory  mobile robots  path planning  guaranteed coverage  blind unreliable robot  coverage planning  simple mobile robot  heuristic algorithm  specially-constructed graph  Robot sensing systems  Robot kinematics  Planning  Navigation  Computational modeling 
Abstract: We consider the problem of coverage planning for a particular type of very simple mobile robot. The robot must be able to translate in a commanded direction (specified in a global reference frame), with bounded error on the motion direction, until reaching the environment boundary. The objective, for a given environment map, is to generate a sequence of motions that is guaranteed to cover as large a portion of that environment as possible, in spite of the severe limits on the robot's sensing and actuation abilities. We show how to model the knowledge available to this kind of robot about its own position within the environment, show how to compute the region whose coverage can be guaranteed for a given plan, and characterize regions whose coverage cannot be guaranteed by any plan. We also describe a heuristic algorithm that generates coverage plans for this robot, based on a search across a specially-constructed graph. Simulation results demonstrate the effectiveness of the approach.


Title: Multi-Layer Coverage Path Planner for Autonomous Structural Inspection of High-Rise Structures
Key Words: autonomous aerial vehicles  inspection  path planning  structural engineering  travelling salesman problems  autonomous structural inspection  high-rise structures  buildings  towers  unmanned aerial vehicle  multi-layer coverage path planner  3D coverage path planning  traveling salesman problem  Inspection  Three-dimensional displays  Path planning  Planning  Unmanned aerial vehicles  Solid modeling  Spirals 
Abstract: In this paper, a novel 3D coverage path planning method, which is efficient and practical for inspection of high-rise structures such as buildings or towers, using an unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV) is presented. Our approach basically focuses on developing a model-based path planner for structural inspection with a prior map, which is opposite to a non-model based exploration. The proposed method uses a volumetric map which is made before the path planning. With the map, the whole structure is divided into several layers for efficient path planning. Firstly, in each layer, a set of the normal vectors of the center point of every voxel is calculated, and then the opposing vectors become viewpoints. Due to too many viewpoints and an overlapped inspection surface, we down-sample them with a voxel grid filter. Then, the shortest tour connecting the reduced viewpoints must be computed with the Traveling Salesman Problem (TSP) solver. Lastly, all the paths in each layer are combined to form the complete path. The results are verified using simulations with a rotary wing UAV and compared with other state-of-the-art algorithm. It is proven that our method performs much better for structural inspection with respect to computation time as well as the coverage completeness.


Title: Efficient and Asymptotically Optimal Kinodynamic Motion Planning via Dominance-Informed Regions
Key Words: mobile robots  optimal control  path planning  robot dynamics  sampling methods  search problems  trees (mathematics)  dominance-informed regions  high quality path  search-based methods  sampling-based methods  DIRT  dominance-informed region tree  spatial exploration  robot dynamics  collision checking  informed search principles  asymptotically optimal kinodynamic motion planner  physics-based simulation  successful successor state  Task analysis  Trajectory  Planning  Aerospace electronics  Robots  Dynamics  Cost function 
Abstract: Motion planners have been recently developed that provide path quality guarantees for robots with dynamics. This work aims to improve upon their efficiency, while maintaining their properties. Inspired by informed search principles, one objective is to use heuristics. Nevertheless, comprehensive and fast spatial exploration of the state space is still important in robotics. For this reason, this work introduces Dominance-Informed Regions (DIR), which express both whether parts of the space are unexplored and whether they lies along a high quality path. Furthermore, to speed up the generation of a successful successor state, which involves collision checking or physics-based simulation, a proposed strategy generates the most promising successor in an informed way, while maintaing properties. Overall, this paper introduces a new informed and asymptotically optimal kinodynamic motion planner, the Dominance-Informed Region Tree (DIRT). The method balances exploration-exploitation tradeoffs without many explicit parameters. It is shown to outperform sampling-based and search-based methods for robots to significant dynamics.


Title: A Comparative Study on Sigma-Point Kalman Filters for Trajectory Estimation of Hybrid Aerial-Aquatic Vehicles
Key Words: autonomous aerial vehicles  autonomous underwater vehicles  Kalman filters  Monte Carlo methods  nonlinear filters  robot dynamics  state estimation  detailed dynamic model simulation  nonlinear algorithm  derivative-free nonlinear Kalman Filters  Cubature Kalman Filter  CKF  nonlinear probabilistic estimators  average execution time  Monte Carlo simulations  in-production HUAUV prototype  state augmentation  sensor data filtering  trajectory estimation  high dimensional state spaces  comparative study  sigma-point Kalman  aerial-aquatic vehicles  nonlinear state estimation methods  transformed unscented Kalman filter  root-mean square error  hybrid unmanned aerial underwater vehicles  HUAUV  Kalman filters  Trajectory tracking  State estimation  Vehicle dynamics  Robot sensing systems 
Abstract: In this paper, a study on nonlinear state estimation methods for Hybrid Unmanned Aerial Underwater Vehicles (HUAUVs) is presented. Based on a detailed dynamic model simulation, we analyse and elect the best nonlinear algorithm among those presented in the state-of-the-art literature addressing local derivative-free nonlinear Kalman Filters (KFs): the Unscented Kalman Filter (UKF), the Cubature Kalman Filter (CKF) and the Transformed Unscented Kalman Filter (TUKF). Here, these three nonlinear probabilistic estimators were compared in terms of the Root Mean Square Error (RMSE) and the average execution time over Monte Carlo simulations. We simulated real-world conditions for our in-production HUAUV prototype using Inertial Measurement Unit (IMU) data and state augmentation for sensor data filtering and trajectory estimation. We have concluded that the CKF proved to be the most interesting KF to low-cost on-board applications for high dimensional state spaces.


Title: Constrained Motion Cueing for Driving Simulators Using a Real-Time Nonlinear MPC Scheme
Key Words: nonlinear control systems  optimisation  predictive control  road traffic control  real-time nonlinear MPC scheme  motion cueing algorithm  MCA  nonlinear model predictive control  realistic motion feeling  realtime gradient algorithm  augmented Lagrangian method  constrained motion cueing  driving simulators  Acceleration  Fasteners  Real-time systems  Trajectory  Vehicles  Software algorithms  Minimization 
Abstract: This contribution presents a motion cueing algorithm (MCA) for driving simulators using nonlinear model predictive control (MPC). The goal of the MCA is to generate a realistic motion feeling while keeping the simulator within its workspace limits. The approach relies on a realtime gradient algorithm in combination with the augmented Lagrangian method in order to directly incorporate the system constraints into the optimization. Simulation results for a reference trajectory with typical driving situations demonstrate the performance as well as the computational efficiency of the approach.


Title: Robust Humanoid Control Using a QP Solver with Integral Gains
Key Words: humanoid robots  Lyapunov methods  quadratic programming  robot dynamics  robust control  torque control  low-frequency bounded disturbances  Lyapunov-stable torque control  dynamical model  dynamic constraints  QP solver  kinetic joint friction  robust humanoid control  torque controlled humanoid robots  multiobjective weighted tasks  optimal dynamically-feasible reference  exponential convergence  joint torque feedback  nonmodelled torque bias  quadratic programming  HRP-5P robot  Torque  Humanoid robots  Convergence  Acceleration  Torque control  Task analysis  Robust control  Torque control  Passivity  Quadratic programming  Humanoid robots 
Abstract: We propose a control framework for torque controlled humanoid robots that efficiently minimizes the tracking error in a Quadratic Programming (QP)formulated as multiobjective weighted tasks with constraints. It results in an optimal dynamically-feasible reference that can be tracked robustly, with exponential convergence, without joint torque feedback, in the presence of non modelled torque bias and low-frequency bounded disturbances. This is achieved by introducing integral gains in a Lyapunov-stable torque control, which exploit the passivity properties of the dynamical model of the robot and their effect on the dynamic constraints of the QP solver. The robustness of this framework is demonstrated in simulation by commanding our robot, the HRP-5P, to achieve simultaneously several objectives in the configuration and the Cartesian spaces, in the presence of non-modeled static and kinetic joint friction, as well as an uncertain torque scale.


Title: C-MPDM: Continuously-Parameterized Risk-Aware MPDM by Quickly Discovering Contextual Policies
Key Words: decision making  gradient methods  operations research  optimisation  continuously-parameterized risk-aware MPDM  on-line forward roll-out process  computational cost  continuous-valued parameters  iterative gradient-based algorithm  multipolicy decision making systems  social environment  promising policy parameters  contextual policies  Robots  Cost function  Real-time systems  Trajectory  Decision making  Backpropagation 
Abstract: Risk-aware Multi-Policy Decision Making (MPDM)is a powerful framework for reliable navigation in a dynamic social environment where rather than evaluating individual trajectories, a “library” of policies (reactive controllers)is evaluated by anticipating potentially dangerous future outcomes using an on-line forward roll-out process. There is a core tension in Multi-Policy Decision Making (MPDM)systems - it is desirable to add more policies to the system for flexibility in finding good policies, however, this increases computational cost. As a result, MPDM was limited to small (perhaps 5-10)discrete policies - a significant performance bottleneck. In this paper, we radically enhance the expressivity of MPDM by allowing policies to have continuous-valued parameters, while simultaneously satisfying real-time constraints by quickly discovering promising policy parameters through a novel iterative gradient-based algorithm. Our evaluation includes results from extensive simulation and real-world experiments in semi-crowded environments.


Title: A Comparative Analysis of Contact Models in Trajectory Optimization for Manipulation*
Key Words: manipulators  optimisation  manipulation  contact-implicit trajectory optimization  variable smooth contact model  optimization process  Task analysis  Robots  Force  Trajectory optimization  Computational modeling  Dynamics 
Abstract: In this paper, we analyze the effects of contact models on contact-implicit trajectory optimization for manipulation. We consider three different approaches: (1)a contact model that is based on complementarity constraints, (2)a smooth contact model, and our proposed method (3) a variable smooth contact model. We compare these models in simulation in terms of physical accuracy, quality of motions, and computation time. In each case, the optimization process is initialized by setting all torque variables to zero, namely, without a meaningful initial guess. For simulations, we consider a pushing task with varying complexity for a 7 degrees-of-freedom robot arm. Our results demonstrate that the optimization based on the proposed variable smooth contact model provides a good trade-off between the physical fidelity and quality of motions at the cost of increased computation time.


Title: A Software Framework for Planning Under Partial Observability
Key Words: application program interfaces  decision theory  Markov processes  mobile robots  path planning  planning (artificial intelligence)  software tools  robotics tasks  software tools  software toolkit  POMDP solvers  robot motion planning  partial observability problems  software framework  reliable robot operation  partially observable Markov decision process  abstract solver API  online POMDP planning toolkit  OPPT  Planning  Robot sensing systems  Computational modeling  Observability  Computer architecture  Standards 
Abstract: Planning under partial observability is both challenging and critical for reliable robot operation. The past decade has seen substantial advances in this domain: The mathematically principled approach for addressing such problems, namely the Partially Observable Markov Decision Process (POMDP), has started to become practical for various robotics tasks. Good approximate solutions for problems framed as POMDPs can now be computed on-line, with a few classes of problems being solved in near real-time. However, applications of these more recent advances are often hindered by the lack of easy-to-use software tools. Implementation of state of the art algorithms exist, but most (if not all)require the POMDP model to be hard-coded inside the program, increasing the difficulty of applying them. To alleviate this problem, we propose a software toolkit, called On-line POMDP Planning Toolkit (OPPT)(downloadable from http://robotics.itee.uq.edu.au/~oppt). By providing a well-defined and general abstract solver API, OPPT enables the user to quickly implement new POMDP solvers. Furthermore, OPPT provides an easy-to-use plug-in architecture with interfaces to the high-fidelity simulator Gazebo that, in conjunction with user-friendly configuration files, allows users to specify POMDP models of a standard class of robot motion planning under partial observability problems with no additional coding effort.


Title: Adaptive Path Following of Snake Robot on Ground with Unknown and Varied Friction Coefficients
Key Words: adaptive control  control nonlinearities  control system synthesis  friction  mobile robots  motion control  parameter estimation  varied friction coefficients  underactuated bio-inspired snake robots  adaptive controller  8-link snake robot  adaptive path following  backstepping technique  parameter estimation  control design input  LaSalle-Yoshizawa theorem  Snake robots  Friction  Tuning  Backstepping  Adaptation models  Stability analysis 
Abstract: This paper investigates the straight path following problem for a class of underactuated bio-inspired snake robots on ground with unknown and varied friction coefficients. Existing works usually design control input requiring the exact values of these friction coefficients, which however rely on the specific operating terrain and may not always be known a priori. By virtue of backstepping technique, we present a novel adaptive controller that can compensate for unknown and varied friction coefficients in real-time. Moreover, it is proved via LaSalle-Yoshizawa theorem that the path following errors converge to zero asymptotically and all the parameter estimates are bounded. Simulations and experiments on an 8-link snake robot are carried out to illustrate the effectiveness of the proposed controller.


Title: Analytical Model of Thermal Soaring: Towards Energy Efficient Path Planning for Flying Robots
Key Words: aerospace robotics  biomimetics  continuous systems  discrete systems  mobile robots  path planning  simple hybrid control strategy  flying robot  energy efficient flying  thermal soaring behavior  energy efficient locomotion types  flying animals  energy efficient path planning  Mathematical model  Birds  Thermal loading  Analytical models  Robots  Aerodynamics  Thermal variables control  Bio-inspired model  Thermal soaring  Path planning  Flying locomotion  Hybrid controller 
Abstract: Developing analytical models of efficient locomotion in biology is one of the most interesting goals in bio- inspired robotics. This paper presents a mathematical framework in order to model one of the most energy efficient locomotion types in flying animals; i.e., thermal soaring. Unlike the legged locomotion, in flying, modeling the environmental effects on animals' behaviors is very important. In doing so, we develop our model by assuming thermals as bubbles of rising air. According to pieces of real evidence, this kind of modeling is more compatible with the nature of thermal soaring. Moreover, we present a simple hybrid control strategy for obtaining the optimal path in order to maximize benefit from the updraft of air-flow. By using this control strategy, the flying robot can plan a path for traveling between thermals without flapping; i.e., energy efficient flying. So as to investigate the compatibility of presented model and controller with reality, we set their parameters based on the biological evidences. As a result, in simulations, it is observed that the generated flying behavior is comparable with the thermal soaring behavior of real birds. This observation provides a confirmation for generality and applicability of the presented approach.


Title: Robust Plant Phenotyping via Model-Based Optimization
Key Words: agriculture  biology computing  botany  crops  genetic algorithms  genetics  industrial plants  probability  solid modelling  robust plant phenotyping  observable plant traits  labour intensive error prone  automated manner  noninvasive manner  plant breeding methods  nonideal sensing conditions  high throughput plant phenotyping  state-of-the-art 3D phenotyping algorithms  hand-tuned parameters  novel model-based optimization approach  estimating plant physical traits  plant units  plant models  probability distribution approach  phenotyping objective  plant structure  work furthers field-based robotic phenotyping capabilities  plant biologists  crop yields  Three-dimensional displays  Imaging  Optimization  Robot sensing systems  Green products  Image reconstruction  Solid modeling 
Abstract: Plant phenotyping is the measurement of observable plant traits. Current methods for phenotyping in the field are labour intensive and error prone. High throughput plant phenotyping in an automated and noninvasive manner is crucial to accelerating plant breeding methods. Occlusions and non-ideal sensing conditions is a major problem for high throughput plant phenotyping with most state-of-the-art 3D phenotyping algorithms relying heavily on heuristics or hand-tuned parameters. To address this problem, we present a novel model-based optimization approach for estimating plant physical traits from plant units called phytomers. The proposed approach involves sampling parameterized 3D plant models from an underlying probability distribution. It then optimizes, making the mass of this probability distribution approach true parameters of the model. Reformulating the phenotyping objective as a search in the space of plant models lets us reason about the plant structure in a holistic manner without having to rely on hand-tuned parameters. This makes our approach robust to noise and occlusions as frequently encountered in real world environments. We evaluate our approach for plant units taken across simulated, greenhouse and field environments. This work furthers field-based robotic phenotyping capabilities paving the way for plant biologists to study the coupled effect of genetics and environment on improving crop yields.


Title: Registering Reconstructions of the Two Sides of Fruit Tree Rows
Key Words: agricultural products  feature extraction  image reconstruction  image registration  three dimensionalreconstructions  reconstruction registeration  partial reconstructions  side-views  measuring traits  yield mapping  orchard rows  fruit tree  Image reconstruction  Three-dimensional displays  Vegetation  Principal component analysis  Shape  Semantics  Cameras 
Abstract: We consider the problem of building accurate three dimensional (3D)reconstructions of orchard rows. This problem arises in many applications including yield mapping and measuring traits (e.g. trunk diameters)for phenotyping. While 3D reconstructions of side views can be obtained using standard methods, merging the two side-views is difficult due to the lack of overlap between the two partial reconstructions. We present a novel method that utilizes global features to constrain the solution. Specifically, we use information from the silhouettes and the ground plane for alignment. The method is evaluated using multiple simulated and real datasets. For additional information and demonstration of experimental results please see https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6mGMF2gFv4M.


Title: Learning to Touch Objects Through Stage-Wise Deep Reinforcement Learning
Key Words: end effectors  learning (artificial intelligence)  stage-wise deep reinforcement learning  complex behaviors  manipulation robotics  high-level modules  object palm-touching task  weakly-supervised learning  informative shaping reward  informative supervised reward  efficient learning  Task analysis  Robot kinematics  End effectors  Cameras  Robot vision systems  Kinematics 
Abstract: Learning complex behaviors through reinforcement learning is particularly challenging when reward is only available upon successful completion of the full behavior. In manipulation robotics, so-called shaping rewards are often used to overcome this problem. However, these usually require human engineering or (partial)world models describing, e.g., the kinematics of the robot or high-level modules for perception. Here we propose an alternative method to learn an object palm-touching task through a weakly-supervised and stagewise learning of simpler tasks. First, the robot learns to fixate the object with its cameras. Second, the robot learns eye-hand coordination by learning to fixate its end effector. Third, using the previously acquired skills an informative shaping reward can be computed which facilitates efficient learning of the object palm-touching task. We demonstrate in simulation that learning the full task with this shaping reward is comparable to learning with an informative supervised reward.


Title: Bayesian Information Recovery from CNN for Probabilistic Inference
Key Words: Bayes methods  Gaussian distribution  image classification  image fusion  learning (artificial intelligence)  mobile robots  navigation  neural nets  pose estimation  probability  robot vision  target tracking  probabilistic inference approach  light conditions  trajectory estimation  simulated unreal engine environment  uncertainty covariance  robot localization problem  robot pose  hidden state mean prediction  high-level state information  inference task  CNN feature likelihood  Bayesian framework  spatially-varying Gaussian distribution  generative viewpoint-dependent model  CNN classifier  visual observations  system hidden state  combinatorial data association  hand-engineered image features  high-dimensional visual measurements  Bayesian information recovery  Robots  Trajectory  Cameras  Bayes methods  Estimation  Uncertainty  Neural networks 
Abstract: Typical inference approaches that work with high-dimensional visual measurements use hand-engineered image features (e.g, SIFT) that require combinatorial data association, or predict only hidden state mean without considering its uncertainty and multi-modality aspects. We develop a novel approach to infer system hidden state from visual observations via CNN features which are outputs of a CNN classifier. To that end, at pre-deployment stage we use neural networks to learn a generative viewpoint-dependent model of CNN features given the robot pose and approximate this model by a spatially-varying Gaussian distribution. Further, at deployment this model is utilized within a Bayesian framework for probabilistic inference, considering a robot localization problem. Our method does not involve data association and provides uncertainty covariance of the final estimation. Moreover, we show empirically that the CNN feature likelihood is unimodal which simplifies the inference task. We test our method in a simulated Unreal Engine environment, where we succeed to retrieve high-level state information from CNN features and produce trajectory estimation with high accuracy. Additionally, we analyze robustness of our approach to different light conditions.


Title: The Deformable Quad-Rotor Enabled and Wasp-Pedal-Carrying Inspired Aerial Gripper
Key Words: aerodynamics  aircraft control  autonomous aerial vehicles  controllability  deformation  grippers  helicopters  mobile robots  stability  aerial gripper design  REMS  quadrotor body  quadrotor deformation  rigid elements based morphing structure  aerodynamic flow  wasp grasping behavior  stability  unmanned aerial vehicles  Grippers  Grasping  Strain  Payloads  Rotors  Manipulators  Gravity 
Abstract: The paper presents the development of a novel deformable quad-rotor enabled aerial gripper. The mechanism of our deformable quad-rotor is based on simultaneous expansion or contraction of the quad-rotor body, which is generated by controlling a rigid elements based morphing structure (REMS). Such deformation results in a highly deformable quad-rotor that can not only perform morphological adaptation in response to environmental changes and obstacles, but also improve the flight performance by contracting to facilitate the agility/maneuverability or by expanding to enhance the stability. Meanwhile, inspired by the wasp grasping behavior, such controllable expansion and contraction from the REMS ingeniously enable a new function of aerial gripper. In this paper, we start to detail the mechanism and design of the REMS based deformable quad-rotor, then present the quad-rotor deformation enabled aerial gripper design, its dynamics modeling, the grasping function and analysis. The simulation was conducted in order to graphically show the elicited aerodynamic flow situation during expansion or contraction of the quad-rotor with and without carrying payload. Experiments were further implemented to validate the grasping function of the gripper and the flight performance of the quad-rotor. Finally, two case studies on the new aerial gripper were performed. All results demonstrate the excellent performance of the deformable quad-rotor enabled aerial gripper, that is, it has the advantages of both flight maneuverability and grasping capability during performing tasks.


Title: Methods for Autonomous Wristband Placement with a Search-and-Rescue Aerial Manipulator
Key Words: aerospace control  autonomous aerial vehicles  convolutional neural nets  grippers  image colour analysis  learning (artificial intelligence)  manipulators  path planning  rescue robots  robot vision  SLAM (robots)  autonomous wristband placement  robotic system  automatic wristband placement  remote sensor readings  continuous health monitoring  unmanned aerial manipulator  automatic wrist detection  RGB-D camera  convolutional neural network  Faster R-CNN  passive detachable gripper  VGG-16 neural network  target localization  trajectory planning  machine learning  parallel delta manipulator  search-and-rescue aerial manipulator  search and rescue operations  unmanned aerial vehicles  Manipulators  Wrist  Cameras  Grippers  Robot kinematics  Robot sensing systems 
Abstract: A new robotic system for Search And Rescue (SAR) operations based on the automatic wristband placement on the victims' arm, which may provide identification, beaconing and remote sensor readings for continuous health monitoring. This paper focuses on the development of the automatic target localization and the device placement using an unmanned aerial manipulator. The automatic wrist detection and localization system uses an RGB-D camera and a convolutional neural network based on the region faster method (Faster R-CNN). A lightweight parallel delta manipulator with a large workspace has been built, and a new design of a wristband in the form of a passive detachable gripper, is presented, which, under contact, automatically attaches to the human, while disengages from the manipulator. A new trajectory planning method has been used to minimize the torques caused by the external forces during contact, which cause attitude perturbations. Experiments have been done to evaluate the machine learning method for detection and location, and for the assessment of the performance of the trajectory planning method. The results show how the VGG-16 neural network provides a detection accuracy of 67.99%. Moreover, simulation experiments have been done to show that the new trajectories minimize the perturbations to the aerial platform.


Title: A Motion Planning Approach for Marsupial Robotic Systems
Key Words: graph theory  mobile robots  multi-robot systems  path planning  free-space regions  topological graph planning  high-level motion plan  low-level path planner  motion planning approach  marsupial robotic systems  automatic coordination  heterogeneous multirobot teams  marsupial-based subset  carrier robots  passenger robots  high-level watershed segmentation  Robot kinematics  Planning  Trajectory  Robot sensing systems  Collision avoidance  Unmanned aerial vehicles 
Abstract: This paper outlines an algorithmic approach for the automatic coordination and planning of heterogeneous multi-robot teams. Specifically, this work addresses the marsupial-based subset of multi-robot teams, where “carrier” robots transport and deploy “passenger” robots. The approach starts with a high-level watershed segmentation of the world to determine the free-space regions accessible by each robot in the team. Topological graph planning then decides the high-level motion plan for each robot between these free-space regions. Finally, a low-level path planner generates optimized, dynamically-feasible trajectories for each robot along the topological path. The performance of the approach is evaluated in simulation and through hardware experiments.


Title: Re-Establishing Communication in Teams of Mobile Robots
Key Words: mobile robots  multi-robot systems  optimisation  path planning  probability  tree searching  wireless connection  constrained optimization problem  branch-and-bound approach  locally available information  belief  mobile robots  Task analysis  Robot kinematics  Search problems  Mobile robots  Markov processes 
Abstract: As communication is important for cooperation, teams of mobile robots need a way to re-establish a wireless connection if they get separated. We develop a method for mobile robots to maintain a belief of each other's positions using locally available information. They can use their belief to plan paths with high probabilities of reconnection. This approach also works for subteams cooperatively searching for a robot or group of robots that they would like to reconnect with. The problem is formulated as a constrained optimization problem which is solved using a branch-and-bound approach. We present simulation results showing the effectiveness of this strategy at reconnecting teams of up to five robots and compare the results to two other strategies.


Title: Multi-Agent Planning for Coordinated Robotic Weed Killing
Key Words: agriculture  crops  environmental factors  industrial robots  mobile robots  multi-agent systems  path planning  multiagent planning  coordinated robotic Weed killing  coordinated multiagent weeding  partial environmental information  coordination strategies  weeding performance  autonomous agricultural robots  system performance  Weed World  coordinated weeding policies  realistic weed generation  initial seed bank densities  weeding process  required number  Agriculture  Robot kinematics  Optimization  Immune system  Chemicals  Soil 
Abstract: This work presents a strategy for coordinated multi-agent weeding under conditions of partial environmental information. The goal of this work is to demonstrate the feasibility of coordination strategies for improving the weeding performance of autonomous agricultural robots. We show that, given a sufficient number of agents, the algorithm can successfully weed fields with various initial seed bank densities, even when multiple days are allowed to elapse before weeding commences. Furthermore, the use of coordination between agents is demonstrated to strongly improve system performance as the number of agents increases, enabling the system to eliminate all the weeds in the field, as in the case of full environmental information, when the planner without coordination failed to do so. As a domain to test our algorithms, we have developed an open source simulation environment, Weed World, which allows real-time visualization of coordinated weeding policies, and includes realistic weed generation. In this work, experiments are conducted to determine the required number of agents and their required transit speed, for given initial seed bank densities and varying allowed days before the start of the weeding process.


Title: Towards Peak Torque Minimization for Modular Self-Folding Robots
Key Words: mobile robots  torque  trees (mathematics)  two-dimensional patterns  robotic inertia  modular architecture  minimal bounding box  robotic base selection  modular origami robot  modular robotic systems  peak torque minimization  modular self-folding robots  capacitated spanning tree heuristic algorithms  Mori  Robots  Torque  Planning  Shape  Heuristic algorithms  Computer architecture  Force 
Abstract: Modular self-folding robots are versatile systems that can change their own shape from two-dimensional patterns at instant commands. This reconfigurability is commonly restrained by power limitation in autonomous environments, The robotic systems with insufficient torque may lead to inaccurate movements and even transformation failures. This paper presents methodology for optimized reconfiguration planning with torque limitation in modular self-folding robots. We determine reconfiguration schemes with optimal initial pattern and robotic base that result in minimal peak torque by minimizing robotic inertia of the modular architecture. We present minimal bounding box and capacitated spanning tree heuristic algorithms to generate optimal initial patterns and propose 3 heuristic rules for robotic base selection. Our approach is demonstrated in simulation by applying the algorithms to the robotic concept of Mori, a modular origami robot. The simulation results show that the proposed algorithms yield reconfiguration schemes with low peak torque, thereby appropriate for real-time applications in modular robotic systems.


Title: Passive Nonlinear Impedance Control for Port-Hamiltonian Systems
Key Words: closed loop systems  control system synthesis  feedback  nonlinear control systems  numerical analysis  controlled system  passive nonlinear impedance control  port-Hamiltonian system  nonholonomic system  fully actuated mechanical systems  closed loop system  numerical simulation  two-wheeled vehicle  feedback controller  generalized canonical transformation  Impedance  Control systems  Mechanical systems  Symmetric matrices  Man-machine systems  Mathematical model  Robots 
Abstract: This paper describes a procedure to design a passive nonlinear impedance control for port-Hamiltonian systems. By expressing the system with the port-Hamiltonian system, the proposed method can be applied to the nonholonomic system as well as fully actuated mechanical systems. The feedback controller for nonlinear impedance control is acquired by utilizing the results of generalized canonical transformation for port-Hamiltonian system. In addition, we investigate the passivity of the closed loop system and discuss the characteristics of the controlled system. A numerical simulation of two-wheeled vehicle shows the effectiveness of the proposed control method.


Title: Dynamic Modelling and Motion Planning for the Nonprehensile Manipulation and Locomotion Tasks of the Quadruped Rsbot*This work is supported by the project of Robotics Innovation Based on Advanced Materials under Ritsumeikan Global Innovation Research Organization (R-GIRO)
Key Words: legged locomotion  manipulator dynamics  motion control  path planning  Drive Mode  Inchworm Mode  Scoot Mode  universal model  dynamic equation  contact force constraints  system state variables  system state paths  robot motions  nonprehensile manipulation  locomotion tasks  quadruped robot  dynamic modelling  motion planning method  state acceleration constraints  Robot kinematics  Legged locomotion  Force  Friction  Mathematical model  Planning 
Abstract: This paper presents the dynamic modelling and motion planning method for a quadruped robot that uses its legs for nonprehensile manipulation as well as locomotion. Three different working modes named Drive Mode, Inchworm Mode and Scoot Mode are proposed to enable the robot to move forward together with the object. We firstly introduce a universal model for these modes and deduce its dynamic equation. Then the contact force constraints are combined and mapped to the system state variables. Based on the acquired state acceleration constraints, the motion planning problem can be solved by designing system state paths in the phase space. After that, we described the mathematical problems within the three working modes and generate the robot motions accordingly. Finally, experimental results obtained through simulations and physical tests are reported to demonstrate the effectiveness of our method.


Title: A Real- Time Solver for Time-Optimal Control of Omnidirectional Robots with Bounded Acceleration
Key Words: approximation theory  boundary-value problems  closed loop systems  maximum principle  mobile robots  optimisation  bounded acceleration  boundary value problem  optimization problem  parameterized control space  two-stage optimal control solver  real- time solver  time-optimal control  omnidirectional robots  TOC-ORBA problem  approximate solutions  exact solutions  Pontryagin's maximum principle  closed loop controller  TSOCS  Acceleration  Robot kinematics  Trajectory  Mobile robots  Optimal control  Real-time systems 
Abstract: We are interested in the problem of time-optimal control of omnidirectional robots with bounded acceleration (TOC-ORBA). While there exist approximate solutions for such problems, and exact solutions with unbounded acceleration, exact solvers to the TOC-ORBA problem have remained elusive until now. In this paper, we present a real-time solver for true time-optimal control of omnidirectional robots with bounded acceleration. We first derive the general parameterized form of the solution to the TOC-ORBA problem by application of Pontryagin's maximum principle. We then frame the boundary value problem of TOC-ORBA as an optimization problem over the parameterized control space. To overcome local minima and poor initial guesses to the optimization problem, we introduce a two-stage optimal control solver (TSOCS): The first stage computes an upper bound to the total time for the TOC-ORBA problem and holds the time constant while optimizing the parameters of the trajectory to approach the boundary value conditions. The second stage uses the parameters found by the first stage, and relaxes the constraint on the total time to solve for the parameters of the complete TOC-ORBA problem. Furthermore, we implement TSOCS as a closed loop controller to overcome actuation errors on real robots in realtime. We empirically demonstrate the effectiveness of TSOCS in simulation and on real robots, showing that 1) it runs in real time, generating solutions in less than 0.5ms on average; 2) it generates faster trajectories compared to an approximate solver; and 3) it is able to solve TOC-ORBA problems with nonzero final velocities that were previously unsolvable in real-time.


Title: Magnetic-Field-Inspired Navigation for Soft Continuum Manipulator*This work was supported in part by King's College London, the EPSRC in the framework of the NCNR (National Centre for Nuclear Robotics) project (EP/R02572X/1), the STIFF-FLOP project grant from the European Communities Seventh Framework Programme under grant agreement 287728, and the Indonesia Endowment Fund for Education, Ministry of Finance Republic of Indonesia.
Key Words: collision avoidance  manipulators  mobile robots  navigation  path planning  2-segment soft continuum arm  unknown environments  reactive navigation method  magnetic fields  soft continuum manipulator  magnetic-field-inspired navigation  Manipulators  Navigation  Force  Wires  Collision avoidance  Service robots 
Abstract: Taking inspiration from the properties of magnetic fields, we propose a reactive navigation method for soft continuum manipulators operating in unknown environments. The proposed navigation method outperforms previous works since it is able to successfully achieve collision-free movements towards the goal in environments with convex obstacles without relying on a priori information of the obstacles' shapes and locations. Simulations for the kinematic model of a soft continuum manipulator and preliminary experiments with a 2-segments soft continuum arm are performed, showing promising results and the potential for our approach to be applied widely.


Title: Socially-Aware Navigation Using Non-Linear Multi-Objective Optimization
Key Words: human-robot interaction  iterative methods  learning (artificial intelligence)  mobile robots  Pareto optimisation  path planning  nonlinear multiobjective optimization  socially assistive robots  complex environments  stochastic human environments  subtle social norms  socially-aware navigation  multiobjective optimization tool  PaC-cET  nonlinear human navigation behavior  autonomously-sensed distance-based features  social costs  finely-tuned linear combination  optimized future trajectory point  PaCcET-based trajectory planner  human-robot interaction community  Pareto concavity elimination transformation  model-based approaches  Navigation  Trajectory  Optimization  Robot sensing systems  Reinforcement learning 
Abstract: For socially assistive robots (SAR)to be accepted into complex and stochastic human environments, it is important to account for subtle social norms. In this paper, we propose a novel approach to socially-aware navigation (SAN)which garnered an immense interest in the Human-Robot Interaction (HRI)community. We use a multi-objective optimization tool called the Pareto Concavity Elimination Transformation (PaC-cET)to capture the non-linear human navigation behavior, a novel contribution to the community. A candidate point on a trajectory is scored (1)for its progress towards the goal, and (2)based on autonomously-sensed distance-based features that capture the social norms and associated social costs. Rather than use a finely-tuned linear combination of these costs, we use PaCcET to select an optimized future trajectory point, associated with a non-linear combination of the costs. Existing research in this domain concentrates on geometric reasoning, model-based, and learning approaches, which have their own pros and cons. This approach is distinct from prior work in this area. We showed in a simulation that the PaCcET-based trajectory planner not only is able to avoid collisions and reach the intended destination in static and dynamic environments but also considers a human's personal space i.e. rules of proxemics in the trajectory selection process.


Title: Design of Lizard-Inspired Robot with Lateral Body Motion
Key Words: legged locomotion  motion control  robot dynamics  bipedal running  4-bar mechanism  hind leg  revolute joints  dynamic model  lizard-inspired robot  lateral body motion  Legged locomotion  Dynamics  Foot  Atmospheric modeling  Force  Mathematical model 
Abstract: A new lizard-inspired robot is presented in this paper, which enables to maintain its moving direction by lateral body motions even during high-speed bipedal running. First, a dynamic model for lizard-inspired robot is derived to simulate the lateral body motion of real lizard. Based upon the simulation using dynamic model, the lizard-inspired robot is tactfully built so that its hind leg is optimally designed on a 4-bar mechanism and its body is simplified to consist of two body links and a tail connected by two revolute joints. The experiments verify that the proposed robot can maintain its moving direction via proper lateral motions during high-speed bipedal running similar to that of real lizard.


Title: Natural Dynamics Exploitation of Dynamic Soaring: Towards Bio-Inspired and Energy Efficient Flying Locomotion
Key Words: biomimetics  energy conservation  gait analysis  legged locomotion  motion control  robot dynamics  robust control  trajectory control  energy efficient flying locomotion  flying robots  robust gaits  albatross dynamic soaring  biological perspectives  trajectory control  mechanical energy regulation  bio-inspired locomotion  seabirds  stability  Mechanical energy  Aerodynamics  Trajectory  Mathematical model  Birds  Robots  Bio-inspired locomotion  Energy efficiency  Natural dynamics exploitation  Dynamic soaring  Cyclic tasks 
Abstract: Albatross has an energy efficient flying pattern (dynamic soaring) among seabirds. This interesting point encourages us to exploit its flying natural dynamics so as to control the flying robots on energy efficient and robust gaits. In doing so, we study the albatross dynamic soaring from analytical and biological perspectives and realize that to generate the dynamic soaring instead of trajectory control, the mechanical energy should be regulated. Accordingly, the control objective is set to mechanical energy regulation, and the bank angle and lift coefficient are computed to satisfy this objective. The presented method is simulated on a standard albatross model and generates two different types of dynamic soaring; O-shaped and a-shaped patterns. In addition, by means of simulations, it is investigated that the presented method is robust in face of variations in initial conditions and unexpected disturbances in the environment's model; i.e., they cannot disturb the stability and cyclic behavior of the system. Moreover, the simulation results are compared with pieces of natural evidence from albatross and interesting similarities are observed.


Title: GPU-Accelerated Next-Best-View Coverage of Articulated Scenes
Key Words: embedded systems  graphics processing units  mobile robots  path planning  rendering (computer graphics)  robot vision  costmap computation  path planning  simulation  viewpoint candidates  multiple device classes  multiGPU servers  utility map  robots  complex articulated scenes  GPU-accelerated next-best-view coverage  next-best-view algorithms  mapping tasks  articulated environments  obstructed areas  degrees of freedom  embedded devices  next-best-view approach  embedded systems  graphics processing units  OpenGL  Graphics processing units  Task analysis  Cameras  Robot sensing systems  Planning  Solid modeling 
Abstract: Next-best-view algorithms are commonly used for covering known scenes, for example in search, maintenance, and mapping tasks. In this paper, we consider the problem of planning a strategy for covering articulated environments where the robot also has to manipulate objects to inspect obstructed areas. This problem is particularly challenging due to the many degrees of freedom resulting from the articulation. We propose to exploit graphics processing units present in many embedded devices to parallelize the computations of a greedy next-best-view approach. We implemented algorithms for costmap computation, path planning, as well as simulation and evaluation of viewpoint candidates in OpenGL for Embedded Systems and benchmarked the implementations on multiple device classes ranging from smartphones to multi-GPU servers. We introduce a heuristic for estimating a utility map from images rendered with strategically placed spherical cameras and show in simulation experiments that robots can successfully explore complex articulated scenes with our system.


Title: Sinc-Based Dynamic Movement Primitives for Encoding Point-to-point Kinematic Behaviors
Key Words: control engineering computing  learning (artificial intelligence)  robot kinematics  robot programming  simple learning technique  sinc functions  sinc-based dynamic movement primitives  point-to-point kinematic behaviors  Complexity theory  Kinematics  Biological system modeling  Computational modeling  Frequency modulation  Encoding 
Abstract: This work proposes the utilization of sinc functions as kernels of Dynamic Movement Primitives (DMP) models for encoding point-to-point kinematic behaviors. The proposed method presents a number of advantages with respect to the state of the art, as it (i) involves a simple learning technique, (ii) provides a method to determine the minimum required number of basis functions, based on the frequency content of the demonstrated motion and (iii) provides the ability to pre-define the reproduction accuracy of the learned behavior. The ability of the proposed model to accurately reproduce the behavior is demonstrated through simulations and experiments. Comparisons with the Gaussian-based DMP model show the proposed method's superiority in terms of computational complexity of learning and accuracy for a specific number of kernels.


Title: Collision-Free Path Planning of Dual-Manipulator System Based on Energy Conversion
Key Words: collision avoidance  elasticity  manipulators  mobile robots  path planning  springs (mechanical)  dual-manipulator moves  original paths  ends-fixed elastic ropes  manipulators  initial paths  elastic potential energy  manipulator bodies  virtual spring  energy perspective  dual-manipulator path-planning problem  energy conversion  dual-manipulator system  collision-free path planning  Manipulators  Path planning  Springs  Potential energy  Mobile robots 
Abstract: This paper is a preliminary exploration of how to solve the dual-manipulator path-planning problem from an energy perspective. A virtual spring is set up between the two manipulator bodies and becomes compressed as they move into the area of danger, thus producing elastic potential energy. The initial paths of the manipulators are modelled as two ends-fixed elastic ropes. The elastic potential energy stored in the virtual spring is distributed between the two elastic ropes in a certain proportion so as to deform them. In this way, the original paths of the two manipulators will deviate toward the direction of their respective bases thereby avoiding any collision crisis that may potentially occur. When the dual-manipulator moves away from the danger area, the elastic potential energy caused by the deviation of the elastic ropes will be converted back into energy stored by the virtual spring, such that the elastic ropes revert to their original state and drive the manipulators back to their initial paths. Simple but representative simulations are established and results of the simulations show the reliability of our proposed method.


Title: Attitude Estimation from Polarimetric Cameras
Key Words: attitude control  autonomous aerial vehicles  cameras  image sensors  mobile robots  path planning  robot vision  robotic applications  attitude estimation  polarimetric camera  path planning applications  visual systems  perspective cameras  depth cameras  catadioptric cameras  systems capture information  sky regions  visual cue  vision applications  sky information  polarimetric sensors  visual sensors  navigation applications  unmanned aerial vehicle  Cameras  Scattering  Robot vision systems  Sun  Estimation  Atmospheric modeling 
Abstract: In the robotic field, navigation and path planning applications benefit from a wide range of visual systems (e.g, perspective cameras, depth cameras, catadioptric cameras, etc.). In outdoor conditions, these systems capture information in which sky regions cover a major segment of the images acquired. However, sky regions are discarded and are not considered as visual cue in vision applications. In this paper, we propose to estimate attitude of Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV) from sky information using a polarimetric camera. Theoretically, we provide a framework estimating the attitude from the skylight polarized patterns. We showcase this formulation on both simulated and real-word data sets which proved the benefit of using polarimetric sensors along with other visual sensors in robotic applications.


Title: Motion Planning for a Small Aerobatic Fixed-Wing Unmanned Aerial Vehicle
Key Words: aerospace components  aircraft control  autonomous aerial vehicles  collision avoidance  feedback  mobile robots  robot dynamics  trees (mathematics)  cruise-to-hover transition  hover-to-cruise transition  motion planner  motion planning  aerobatic fixed-wing  fixed-wing unmanned aerial vehicle  static obstacles  goal region  rapidly-exploring random trees algorithm  Aircraft  Trajectory  Libraries  Aerodynamics  Atmospheric modeling  Heuristic algorithms  Planning 
Abstract: A motion planner is developed for guiding a small aerobatic fixed-wing unmanned aerial vehicle to a desired goal region in a highly constrained, three-dimensional, known environment with static obstacles. The planner is based on the Rapidly-Exploring Random Trees (RRT) algorithm, and pieces together feasible trajectories from a library of motion primitives. Among other more conventional motion primitives, the library includes three extreme maneuvers: a cruise-to-hover transition, a hover-to-cruise transition, and an aggressive turn-around. The algorithm is efficient; it can be run in real-time to rapidly generate a plan starting from the aircraft's configuration at run-time. The motion planner is closely coupled to a feedback controller. Simulations using an aircraft dynamics model demonstrate the effectiveness of the system to guide and control the aircraft to a desired goal region. Preliminary flight test results are also presented.


Title: Persistent Monitoring with Refueling on a Terrain Using a Team of Aerial and Ground Robots
Key Words: aerospace robotics  integer programming  linear programming  multi-robot systems  path planning  tree searching  terrain  persistent monitoring  heterogeneous team  aerial robots  ground robots  MILP formulation  branch-and-cut framework  separation algorithm  Fuels  Monitoring  Unmanned aerial vehicles  Routing  Robot sensing systems  Kernel 
Abstract: There are many applications such as surveillance and mapping that require persistent monitoring of terrains. In this work, we consider a heterogeneous team of aerial and ground robots that are tasked with monitoring a terrain along a given path. Both types of robots are equipped with cameras that can monitor the terrain within their fields-of-view. We also consider the ability of the aerial robots to land occasionally on the terrain to recharge. The objective is to find a path for all the robots to reduce the time required. Determining optimal routes for the robots is a challenging problem because of constrained visibility due to the terrain and fuel limitations of the robots. We devise an MILP formulation for the problem using a 1.5 dimensional representation model. A branch-and-cut framework is used to implement the MILP and involves the design of a separation algorithm to compute valid inequalities. We report results from extensive simulations and proof-of-concept field experiments to show the efficacy of our approach.


Title: A Mobility Model Based on Improved Artificial Potential Fields for Swarms of UAVs
Key Words: autonomous aerial vehicles  collision avoidance  mobile robots  path planning  remotely operated vehicles  information sharing  path planning  obstacles avoidance  mobility model  swarms  UAV  involved UAVs collaborate  mobility strategies  autonomous UAVs  collaborative tasks  multiple platforms  artificial potential fields principle  APF principle  Path planning  Sensors  Adaptation models  Collaboration  Task analysis  Laser radar  Collision avoidance 
Abstract: A combination of several autonomous UAVs can be used to perform collaborative tasks. Such a combination is referred to as a swarm of drones. The use of multiple platforms can extend the system global capacities thanks to the resulting variety of embedded sensors and to information sharing. In this case, path planning and thus obstacles avoidance is still a major task. To deal with this issue, mobility models have to be implemented. Our contribution presented in this paper is a mobility model for swarms of UAVs based on the Artificial Potential Fields (APF) principle. In our model, the involved UAVs collaborate by sharing data about the obstacles that they detected. By doing so, a UAV which is not close enough to an obstacle to detect it thanks to its own sensors will still have the proper data to take this obstacle into account in its path planning. To validate our mobility strategies with realistic constraints we simulate the performances of existing sensors and transmitters, and consider real-world environment.


Title: Lightweight Collision Avoidance for Resource-Constrained Robots
Key Words: collision avoidance  control system synthesis  mobile robots  motion control  resource-constrained robot  controller design  lightweight collision avoidance strategy  embedded control  reference control input  dynamic environment  low level motion control  on-board sensors  vehicle  physical robots  low computational requirements  Collision avoidance  Robot sensing systems  Navigation  Vehicle dynamics 
Abstract: One of the safest and most reliable strategies for vehicle's collision avoidance is embedded control at low level to guarantee safe motion in all situations using on-board sensors. In this paper, we propose a novel lightweight collision avoidance strategy that can be implemented as a low level motion control to achieve safe motion while simultaneously tracking the robot's reference control input. This strategy is designed to be general so that it can be easily integrated with most control designs, with the primary target of resource-constrained robot swarms that act in real-time, dynamic environments. The main advantages of our approach are a very simple structure and low computational requirements. We verified the effectiveness of the proposed collision avoidance strategy through two simulated scenarios and with physical robots. We believe our design can be directly used in many areas, such as autonomous driving, intelligent transportation and planetary exploration.


Title: An Improved Formulation for Model Predictive Control of Legged Robots for Gait Planning and Feedback Control
Key Words: feedback  legged locomotion  numerical stability  pendulums  predictive control  robot dynamics  robust control  gait planning  feedback control  MPC scheme  long prediction horizons  low dimensional models  model predictive control scheme  numerical stability  linear inverted pendulum model  LIPM  legged robots dynamics  external disturbance  robustness  Optimization  Legged locomotion  Numerical models  Acceleration  Planning  Numerical stability 
Abstract: Predictive control methods for walking commonly use low dimensional models, such as a Linear Inverted Pendulum Model (LIPM), for simplifying the complex dynamics of legged robots. This paper identifies the physical limitations of the modeling methods that do not account for external disturbances, and then analyzes the issues of numerical stability of Model Predictive Control (MPC)using different models with variable receding horizons. We propose a new modeling formulation that can be used for both gait planning and feedback control in an MPC scheme. The advantages are the improved numerical stability for long prediction horizons and the robustness against various disturbances. Benchmarks were rigorously studied to compare the proposed MPC scheme with the existing ones in terms of numerical stability and disturbance rejection. The effectiveness of the controller is demonstrated in both MATLAB and Gazebo simulations.


Title: A Transient-Goal Driven Communication-Aware Navigation Strategy for Large Human-Populated Environments
Key Words: decision making  Gaussian processes  indoor navigation  mobile robots  path planning  signal processing  wireless sensor networks  social robot navigation  networked service  wireless networks  Gaussian Process  robotic wheelchair operation  sub-optimal path  communication-aware planning constraints  connectivity issues  human-populated indoor environments  transient-goal driven communication-aware navigation strategy  human-aware planning constraints  radio signal strength constraints  decision making capabilities  shopping mall  Robot sensing systems  Navigation  Transient analysis  Mobile robots  Fading channels  Wireless communication 
Abstract: Robots deployed in large human-populated indoor environments such as shopping malls, airports etc., inadvertently communicate via wireless networks for enhanced perception and decision making capabilities. Owing to highly dynamic signal attenuation characteristics in such environments, connectivity issues may arise during robotic navigation, leading to disruption in information flow causing potential danger. Exact modeling of signal propagation for estimating spatial signal variation is usually challenging. Moreover, the presence of dynamic humans also add a layer of temporal signal variation complexities. Thus, this paper introduces a generative approach for embedding radio signal strength constraints within networked service/social robot navigation in large human-populated environments. Initially, we propose a Gaussian Process based online spatio-temporal signal strength prediction model that, as opposed to the current state of the art, also aims to take into account the temporal fading arising due to the presence of human crowds. We then devise a transient-goal driven navigation strategy to realize a sub-optimal path towards a goal, that is aimed at resolving both communication-aware and human-aware planning constraints. Evaluations of the proposed signal prediction model demonstrate the advantages of our approach with respect to the current state of the art. The efficacy of the navigation strategy in also demonstrated simulations and using hardware experiments conducted on a robotic wheelchair operating in a large shopping mall.


Title: Optimizing Contextual Ergonomics Models in Human-Robot Interaction
Key Words: biomechanics  ergonomics  Gaussian processes  human-robot interaction  learning (artificial intelligence)  muscle  physiological models  accurate biomechanical simulations  robot control loops  high-dimensional musculoskeletal model  human-robot interaction  current ergonomic assessment procedures  ergonomic scores  ergonomic scoring  Gaussian process latent variable models  Ergonomics  Biological system modeling  Context modeling  Task analysis  Data models  Muscles 
Abstract: Current ergonomic assessment procedures require observation and manual annotation of postures by an expert, after which ergonomic scores are inferred from these annotations. Our aim is to automate this procedure and to enable robots to optimize their behavior with respect to such scores. A particular challenge is that ergonomic scoring requires accurate biomechanical simulations which are computationally too expensive to use in robot control loops or optimization. To address this, we learn Contextual Ergonomics Models, which are Gaussian Process Latent Variable Models that have been trained with full musculoskeletal simulations for specific tasks contexts. Contextual Ergonomics Models enable search in a low-dimensional latent space, whilst the cost function can be defined in terms of the full high-dimensional musculoskeletal model, which can be quickly reconstructed from the latent space. We demonstrate how optimizing Contextual Ergonomics Models leads to significantly reduced muscle activation in an experiment with eight subjects performing a drilling task.


Title: A Natural Adaptive Control Law for Robot Manipulators
Key Words: adaptive control  control system synthesis  geometry  manipulators  natural adaptive control law  robot manipulators  robot parameters  coordinate-invariant differential geometric structure  Adaptive control  Symmetric matrices  Robot kinematics  Lead  Manipulators  Measurement 
Abstract: Existing adaptive robot control laws typically require an engineering choice of a constant adaptation gain matrix, which often involves repeated and time-consuming trial and error. Moreover, physical consistency of the estimated inertial parameters or the uniform positive definiteness of the estimated robot mass matrix cannot in general be guaranteed without nonsmooth corrections, e.g., projection to the boundary of the feasible parameter set. In this paper we present a natural adaptive control law that mitigates many of these difficulties, by exploiting the coordinate-invariant differential geometric structure of the space of physically consistent inertial parameters. Our approach provides a more generalizable and physically consistent adaptation law for the robot parameters without significant additional computations compared to existing methods. Simulation results showing markedly improved tracking error convergence over existing adaptive control laws are provided as validation.


Title: Wireframe Mapping for Resource-Constrained Robots
Key Words: mobile robots  path planning  simulation mapping  wireframe mapping  resource-constrained robots  wireframe representation  particle filter  sparse wireframe map structure  map representation  wireframe structure  occupancy grid map  discrete map errors  Simultaneous localization and mapping  Uncertainty  Two dimensional displays  Geometry  Navigation 
Abstract: This paper presents a novel wireframe map structure for resource-constrained robots operating in a rectilinear 2D environment. The wireframe representation compactly represents geometry, in addition to transient situations such as occlusions and boundaries of unexplored regions. We formulate a particle filter to suit this sparse wireframe map structure. Functions for calculating the likelihood of scans, merging wireframes, and resampling are developed to accommodate this map representation. The wireframe structure with the particle filter allows for severe discrete map errors to be corrected, leading to accurate maps with small storage requirements. We show in a simulation study that the algorithm attains a map of an environment with 1 % error, compared to an occupancy grid map obtained with GMapping which attained 23% error with the same storage requirements. A simulation mapping a large environment demonstrates the algorithms scalability.


Title: Optimal Feedback Control Based on Analytical Linear Models Extracted from Neural Networks Trained for Nonlinear Systems
Key Words: control system synthesis  feedback  linear systems  neurocontrollers  nonlinear control systems  optimal control  robots  neural network  mathematical models  control theory  optimal feedback control  analytical linear models  nonlinear systems  robots  soft structures  flexible musculoskeletal systems  systematic design policy  conventional robotics  linear system models  Mathematical model  Neural networks  Computational modeling  Manipulators  Control theory  Aerospace electronics 
Abstract: A number of researches have been focusing on the development and control of robots with soft structures such as flexible musculoskeletal systems. Thus far, it has been reported that these robots can achieve high adaptability to environments despite their extremely simple controllers. However, because these robots are difficult to model mathematically, there is still no systematic design policy, in which control theory has been playing a role in conventional robotics, for constituting simple controllers. To tackle this problem, we propose a new approach using a neural network to obtain mathematical models. In particular, with this method, the control theory is applied to linear system models extracted from a network trained to express the forward dynamics of a robot. Through simulations, the validity and advantage of the proposed method was successfully confirmed.


Title: Learning to Grasp by Extending the Peri-Personal Space Graph
Key Words: dexterous manipulators  graph theory  grippers  learning (artificial intelligence)  mobile robots  motion control  position control  robot vision  robot model  infant learning  human infants  robotic learning agent  analogous models  deliberate grasp action  Palmar reflex  PPS graph  peri-personal space graph model  grasp learning  jerky submotions  gripper fingers  Manipulators  Reliability  Grippers  Robot sensing systems  Visualization  Trajectory 
Abstract: We present a robot model of early reach and grasp learning, inspired by infant learning without prior knowledge of the geometry, kinematics, or dynamics of the arm. Human infants at reach onset are capable of using a sequence of jerky submotions to bring the hand to the position of a nearby object. A robotic learning agent can produce qualitatively similar behavior by using a graph representation to encode a set of safe, potentially useful arm states and feasible moves between them. These observations show that the Peri-Personal Space (PPS) Graph model is sufficient for early reaching and suggest that infants may use analogous models during this phase. In this paper, we show that the PPS Graph, with a simulated Palmar reflex (a reflex in infants that closes the fingers when the palm is touched), allows accidental grasps to occur during continued reaching practice. Given these occasional events, the agent can bootstrap to a simple deliberate grasp action. In particular, the agent must learn three new necessary conditions for a grasp: the hand should be open as the grasp begins, the final motion of the hand should be led by the gripper opening so that it reaches the target first, and the wrist must be oriented such that the gripper fingers may close around the target object, often requiring the opening to be perpendicular to the object's major axis. Combined with the existing capability to reach and interact with target objects, knowledge of these conditions allows the agent to learn increasingly reliable purposeful grasps. The first two conditions are addressed in this paper, and allow 45% of grasps to succeed. This work contributes toward the larger goal of foundational robot learning after the model of infant learning, with minimal prior knowledge of its own anatomy or its environment. The ability to grasp will allow the agent to control the motion and position of objects, providing a richer representation for its environment and new experiences to learn from.


Title: Gaussian Process Dynamic Programming for Optimizing Ungrounded Haptic Guidance
Key Words: dynamic programming  Gaussian processes  gyroscopes  haptic interfaces  human-robot interaction  Gaussian process dynamic programming  ungrounded haptic guidance  human-robot interactions  haptic devices  ungrounded control moment gyroscope haptic device  cued haptic direction  Haptic interfaces  Torque  Brushless motors  Quaternions  Task analysis  Gaussian processes  Robots 
Abstract: Adapting robot actions to human motions can make human-robot interactions (HRI) more effective. Here, we aim to optimize guidance from haptic devices based on a user's response to produce better task performance. We used Gaussian processes to model the motions a human user made in response to applied torques from an ungrounded control moment gyroscope haptic device. We then used Gaussian process dynamic programming to generate optimized haptic cues to guide the user to rotate the device toward 3D targets. We compared the performance of naive and optimized policies in simulations and with a human user, and found that dynamic programming can significantly improve haptic guidance in cases where human responses are highly variable or inconsistent with the cued haptic direction.


