total paper: 331
Title: Metrically-Scaled Monocular SLAM using Learned Scale Factors
Abstract: We propose an efficient method for monocular simultaneous localization and mapping (SLAM) that is capable of estimating metrically-scaled motion without additional sensors or hardware acceleration by integrating metric depth predictions from a neural network into a geometric SLAM factor graph. Unlike learned end-to-end SLAM systems, ours does not ignore the relative geometry directly observable in the images. Unlike existing learned depth estimation approaches, ours leverages the insight that when used to estimate scale, learned depth predictions need only be coarse in image space. This allows us to shrink our network to the point that performing inference on a standard CPU becomes computationally tractable.We make several improvements to our network architecture and training procedure to address the lack of depth observability when using coarse images, which allows us to estimate spatially coarse, but depth-accurate predictions in only 30 ms per frame without GPU acceleration. At runtime we incorporate the learned metric data as unary scale factors in a Sim(3) pose graph. Our method is able to generate accurate, scaled poses without additional sensors, hardware accelerators, or special maneuvers and does not ignore or corrupt the observable epipolar geometry. We show compelling results on the KITTI benchmark dataset in addition to real-world experiments with a handheld camera.


Title: Learning Object Placements For Relational Instructions by Hallucinating Scene Representations
Abstract: Robots coexisting with humans in their environment and performing services for them need the ability to interact with them. One particular requirement for such robots is that they are able to understand spatial relations and can place objects in accordance with the spatial relations expressed by their user. In this work, we present a convolutional neural network for estimating pixelwise object placement probabilities for a set of spatial relations from a single input image. During training, our network receives the learning signal by classifying hallucinated high-level scene representations as an auxiliary task. Unlike previous approaches, our method does not require ground truth data for the pixelwise relational probabilities or 3D models of the objects, which significantly expands the applicability in practical applications. Our results obtained using real-world data and human-robot experiments demonstrate the effectiveness of our method in reasoning about the best way to place objects to reproduce a spatial relation. Videos of our experiments can be found at https://youtu.be/zaZkHTWFMKM.


Title: FADNet: A Fast and Accurate Network for Disparity Estimation
Abstract: Deep neural networks (DNNs) have achieved great success in the area of computer vision. The disparity estimation problem tends to be addressed by DNNs which achieve much better prediction accuracy in stereo matching than traditional hand-crafted feature based methods. On one hand, however, the designed DNNs require significant memory and computation resources to accurately predict the disparity, especially for those 3D convolution based networks, which makes it difficult for deployment in real-time applications. On the other hand, existing computation-efficient networks lack expression capability in large-scale datasets so that they cannot make an accurate prediction in many scenarios. To this end, we propose an efficient and accurate deep network for disparity estimation named FADNet with three main features: 1) It exploits efficient 2D based correlation layers with stacked blocks to preserve fast computation; 2) It combines the residual structures to make the deeper model easier to learn; 3) It contains multi-scale predictions so as to exploit a multi-scale weight scheduling training technique to improve the accuracy. We conduct experiments to demonstrate the effectiveness of FADNet on two popular datasets, Scene Flow and KITTI 2015. Experimental results show that FADNet achieves state-of-the-art prediction accuracy, and runs at a significant order of magnitude faster speed than existing 3D models. The codes of FADNet are available at https://github.com/HKBU-HPML/FADNet.


Title: Training Adversarial Agents to Exploit Weaknesses in Deep Control Policies
Abstract: Deep learning has become an increasingly common technique for various control problems, such as robotic arm manipulation, robot navigation, and autonomous vehicles. However, the downside of using deep neural networks to learn control policies is their opaque nature and the difficulties of validating their safety. As the networks used to obtain state-of-the-art results become increasingly deep and complex, the rules they have learned and how they operate become more challenging to understand. This presents an issue, since in safety-critical applications the safety of the control policy must be ensured to a high confidence level. In this paper, we propose an automated black box testing framework based on adversarial reinforcement learning. The technique uses an adversarial agent, whose goal is to degrade the performance of the target model under test. We test the approach on an autonomous vehicle problem, by training an adversarial reinforcement learning agent, which aims to cause a deep neural network-driven autonomous vehicle to collide. Two neural networks trained for autonomous driving are compared, and the results from the testing are used to compare the robustness of their learned control policies. We show that the proposed framework is able to find weaknesses in both control policies that were not evident during online testing and therefore, demonstrate a significant benefit over manual testing methods.


Title: TRASS: Time Reversal as Self-Supervision
Abstract: A longstanding challenge in robot learning for manipulation tasks has been the ability to generalize to varying initial conditions, diverse objects, and changing objectives. Learning based approaches have shown promise in producing robust policies, but require heavy supervision and large number of environment interactions, especially from visual inputs. We propose a novel self-supervision technique that uses time-reversal to provide high level supervision to reach goals. In particular, we introduce the time-reversal model (TRM), a self-supervised model which explores outward from a set of goal states and learns to predict these trajectories in reverse. This provides a high level plan towards goals, allowing us to learn complex manipulation tasks with no demonstrations or exploration at test time. We test our method on the domain of assembly, specifically the mating of tetris-style block pairs. Using our method operating atop visual model predictive control, we are able to assemble tetris blocks on a KuKa IIWA-7 using only uncalibrated RGB camera input, and generalize to unseen block pairs. Project's-page: https://sites.google.com/view/time-reversal.


Title: Dynamic Movement Primitives for moving goals with temporal scaling adaptation
Abstract: In this work, we propose an augmentation to the Dynamic Movement Primitives (DMP) framework which allows the system to generalize to moving goals without the use of any known or approximation model for estimating the goal's motion. We aim to maintain the demonstrated velocity levels during the execution to the moving goal, generating motion profiles appropriate for human robot collaboration. The proposed method employs a modified version of a DMP, learned by a demonstration to a static goal, with adaptive temporal scaling in order to achieve reaching of the moving goal with the learned kinematic pattern. Only the current position and velocity of the goal are required. The goal's reaching error and its derivative is proved to converge to zero via contraction analysis. The theoretical results are verified by simulations and experiments on a KUKA LWR4+ robot.


Title: Unsupervised Anomaly Detection for Self-flying Delivery Drones
Abstract: We propose a novel anomaly detection framework for a fleet of hybrid aerial vehicles executing high-speed package pickup and delivery missions. The detection is based on machine learning models of normal flight profiles, trained on millions of flight log measurements of control inputs and sensor readings. We develop a new scalable algorithm for robust regression which can simultaneously fit predictive flight dynamics models while identifying and discarding abnormal flight missions from the training set. The resulting unsupervised estimator has a very high breakdown point and can withstand massive contamination of training data to uncover what normal flight patterns look like, without requiring any form of prior knowledge of aircraft aerodynamics or manual labeling of anomalies upfront. Across many different anomaly types, spanning simple 3sigma statistical thresholds to turbulence and other equipment anomalies, our models achieve high detection rates across the board. Our method consistently outperforms alternative robust detection methods on synthetic benchmark problems. To the best of our knowledge, dynamics modeling of hybrid delivery drones for anomaly detection at the scale of 100 million measurements from 5000 real flight missions in variable flight conditions is unprecedented.


Title: Keyfilter-Aware Real-Time UAV Object Tracking
Abstract: Correlation filter-based tracking has been widely applied in unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV) with high efficiency. However, it has two imperfections, i.e., boundary effect and filter corruption. Several methods enlarging the search area can mitigate boundary effect, yet introducing undesired background distraction. Existing frame-by-frame context learning strategies for repressing background distraction nevertheless lower the tracking speed. Inspired by keyframe-based simultaneous localization and mapping, keyfilter is proposed in visual tracking for the first time, in order to handle the above issues efficiently and effectively. Keyfilters generated by periodically selected keyframes learn the context intermittently and are used to restrain the learning of filters, so that 1) context awareness can be transmitted to all the filters via keyfilter restriction, and 2) filter corruption can be repressed. Compared to the state-of-the-art results, our tracker performs better on two challenging benchmarks, with enough speed for UAV real-time applications.


Title: Deep Merging: Vehicle Merging Controller Based on Deep Reinforcement Learning with Embedding Network
Abstract: Vehicles at highway merging sections must make lane changes to join the highway. This lane change can generate congestion. To reduce congestion, vehicles should merge so as not to affect traffic flow as much as possible. In our study, we propose a vehicle controller called Deep Merging that uses deep reinforcement learning to improve the merging efficiency of vehicles while considering the impact on traffic flow. The system uses the images of a merging section as input to output the target vehicle speed. Moreover, an embedding network for estimating the controlled vehicle speed is introduced to the deep reinforcement learning network architecture to improve the learning efficiency. In order to show the effectiveness of the proposed method, the merging behavior and traffic conditions in several situations are verified by experiments using a traffic simulator. Through these experiments, it is confirmed that the proposed method enables controlled vehicles to effectively merge without adversely affecting to the traffic flow.


Title: Urban Driving with Conditional Imitation Learning
Abstract: Hand-crafting generalised decision-making rules for real-world urban autonomous driving is hard. Alternatively, learning behaviour from easy-to-collect human driving demonstrations is appealing. Prior work has studied imitation learning (IL) for autonomous driving with a number of limitations. Examples include only performing lane-following rather than following a user-defined route, only using a single camera view or heavily cropped frames lacking state observability, only lateral (steering) control, but not longitudinal (speed) control and a lack of interaction with traffic. Importantly, the majority of such systems have been primarily evaluated in simulation - a simple domain, which lacks real-world complexities. Motivated by these challenges, we focus on learning representations of semantics, geometry and motion with computer vision for IL from human driving demonstrations. As our main contribution, we present an end-to-end conditional imitation learning approach, combining both lateral and longitudinal control on a real vehicle for following urban routes with simple traffic. We address inherent dataset bias by data balancing, training our final policy on approximately 30 hours of demonstrations gathered over six months. We evaluate our method on an autonomous vehicle by driving 35km of novel routes in European urban streets.


Title: RISE: A Novel Indoor Visual Place Recogniser
Abstract: This paper presents a new technique to solve the Indoor Visual Place Recognition problem from the Deep Learning perspective. It consists on an image retrieval approach supported by a novel image similarity metric. Our work uses a 3D laser sensor mounted on a backpack with a calibrated spherical camera i) to generate the data for training the deep neural network and ii) to build a database of geo-referenced images for an environment. The data collection stage is fully automatic and requires no user intervention for labelling. Thanks to the 3D laser measurements and the spherical panoramas, we can efficiently survey large indoor areas in a very short time. The underlying 3D data associated to the map allows us to define the similarity between two training images as the geometric overlap between the observed pixels. We exploit this similarity metric to effectively train a CNN that maps images into compact embeddings. The goal of the training is to ensure that the L2 distance between the embeddings associated to two images is small when they are observing the same place and large when they are observing different places. After the training, similarities between a query image and the geo-referenced images in the database are efficiently retrieved by performing a nearest neighbour search in the embeddings space.


Title: Sample-and-computation-efficient Probabilistic Model Predictive Control with Random Features
Abstract: Gaussian processes (GPs) based Reinforcement Learning (RL) methods with Model Predictive Control (MPC) have demonstrated their excellent sample efficiency. However, since the computational cost of GPs largely depends on the training sample size, learning an accurate dynamics using GPs result in low control frequency in MPC. To alleviate this trade-off and achieve a sample-and-computation-efficient nature, we propose a novel model-based RL method with MPC. Our approach employs a linear Gaussian model with randomized features using the Fastfood as an approximated GP dynamics. Then, we derive an analytic moment-matching scheme in state prediction with the model and uncertain inputs. As a result, the computational cost of the MPC in our RL method does not depend on the training sample size and can improve the control frequency over previous methods. Through experiments with simulated and real robot control tasks, the sample efficiency, as well as the computation efficiency of our model-based RL method, are demonstrated.


Title: Sample-Efficient Robot Motion Learning using Gaussian Process Latent Variable Models
Abstract: Robotic manipulators are reaching a state where we could see them in household environments in the following decade. Nevertheless, such robots need to be easy to instruct by lay people. This is why kinesthetic teaching has become very popular in recent years, in which the robot is taught a motion that is encoded as a parametric function - usually a Movement Primitive (MP)-. This approach produces trajectories that are usually suboptimal, and the robot needs to be able to improve them through trial-and-error. Such optimization is often done with Policy Search (PS) reinforcement learning, using a given reward function. PS algorithms can be classified as model-free, where neither the environment nor the reward function are modelled, or model-based, which can use a surrogate model of the reward function and/or a model for the dynamics of the task. However, MPs can become very high-dimensional in terms of parameters, which constitute the search space, so their optimization often requires too many samples. In this paper, we assume we have a robot motion task characterized with an MP of which we cannot model the dynamics. We build a surrogate model for the reward function, that maps an MP parameter latent space (obtained through a Mutual-information-weighted Gaussian Process Latent Variable Model) into a reward. While we do not model the task dynamics, using mutual information to shrink the task space makes it more consistent with the reward and so the policy improvement is faster in terms of sample efficiency.


Title: Iterative Learning based feedforward control for Transition of a Biplane-Quadrotor Tailsitter UAS
Abstract: This paper provides a real time on-board algorithm for a biplane-quadrotor to iteratively learn a forward transition maneuver via repeated flight trials. The maneuver is controlled by regulating the pitch angle and propeller thrust according to feedforward control laws that are parameterized by polynomials. Based on a nominal model with simplified aerodynamics, the optimal coefficients of the polynomials are chosen through simulation such that the maneuver is completed with specified terminal conditions on altitude and air speed. In order to compensate for modeling errors, repeated flight trials are performed by updating the feedforward control parameters according to an iterative learning algorithm until the maneuver is perfected. A geometric attitude controller, valid for all flight modes is employed in order to track the pitch angle according to the feedforward law. Further, a high-fidelity thrust model of the propeller for varying advance-ratio and orientation angle is obtained from wind tunnel data which is captured using a neural network model. This facilitates accurate application of feedforward thrust for varying flow conditions during transition. Experimental flight trials are performed to demonstrate the robustness and rapid convergence of the proposed learning algorithm.


Title: Reinforcement Learning for Adaptive Illumination with X-rays
Abstract: We propose a learning algorithm for automating image sampling in scientific applications. We consider settings where images are sampled by controlling a probe beam's scanning trajectory over the image surface. We explore alternatives to obtaining images by the standard rastering method. We formulate the scanner control problem as a reinforcement learning (RL) problem and train a policy to adaptively sample only the highest value regions of the image, choosing the acquisition time and resolution for each sample position based on an observation of previous readings. We use convolutional neural network (CNN) policies to control the scanner as a way to generalize our approach to larger samples. We show simulation results for a simple policy on both synthetic data and real world data from an archaeological application.


Title: Temporal Segmentation of Surgical Sub-tasks through Deep Learning with Multiple Data Sources
Abstract: Many tasks in robot-assisted surgeries (RAS) can be represented by finite-state machines (FSMs), where each state represents either an action (such as picking up a needle) or an observation (such as bleeding). A crucial step towards the automation of such surgical tasks is the temporal perception of the current surgical scene, which requires a real-time estimation of the states in the FSMs. The objective of this work is to estimate the current state of the surgical task based on the actions performed or events occurred as the task progresses. We propose Fusion-KVE, a unified surgical state estimation model that incorporates multiple data sources including the Kinematics, Vision, and system Events. Additionally, we examine the strengths and weaknesses of different state estimation models in segmenting states with different representative features or levels of granularity. We evaluate our model on the JHU-ISI Gesture and Skill Assessment Working Set (JIGSAWS), as well as a more complex dataset involving robotic intra-operative ultrasound (RIOUS) imaging, created using the da Vinci® Xi surgical system. Our model achieves a superior frame-wise state estimation accuracy up to 89.4%, which improves the state-of-the-art surgical state estimation models in both JIGSAWS suturing dataset and our RIOUS dataset.


Title: Controlling Assistive Robots with Learned Latent Actions
Abstract: Assistive robotic arms enable users with physical disabilities to perform everyday tasks without relying on a caregiver. Unfortunately, the very dexterity that makes these arms useful also makes them challenging to teleoperate: the robot has more degrees-of-freedom than the human can directly coordinate with a handheld joystick. Our insight is that we can make assistive robots easier for humans to control by leveraging latent actions. Latent actions provide a low-dimensional embedding of high-dimensional robot behavior: for example, one latent dimension might guide the assistive arm along a pouring motion. In this paper, we design a teleoperation algorithm for assistive robots that learns latent actions from task demonstrations. We formulate the controllability, consistency, and scaling properties that user-friendly latent actions should have, and evaluate how different low-dimensional embeddings capture these properties. Finally, we conduct two user studies on a robotic arm to compare our latent action approach to both state-of-the-art shared autonomy baselines and a teleoperation strategy currently used by assistive arms. Participants completed assistive eating and cooking tasks more efficiently when leveraging our latent actions, and also subjectively reported that latent actions made the task easier to perform. The video accompanying this paper can be found at: https://youtu.be/wjnhrzugBj4.


Title: Extracting Legged Locomotion Heuristics with Regularized Predictive Control
Abstract: Optimization based predictive control is a powerful tool that has improved the ability of legged robots to execute dynamic maneuvers and traverse increasingly difficult terrains. However, it is often challenging and unintuitive to design meaningful cost functions and build high-fidelity models while adhering to timing restrictions. A novel framework to extract and design principled regularization heuristics for legged locomotion optimization control is presented. By allowing a simulation to fully explore the cost space offline, certain states and actions can be constrained or isolated. Data is fit with simple models relating the desired commands, optimal control actions, and robot states to identify new heuristic candidates. Basic parameter learning and adaptation laws are then applied to the models online. This method extracts simple, but powerful heuristics that can approximate complex dynamics and account for errors stemming from model simplifications and parameter uncertainty without the loss of physical intuition while generalizing the parameter tuning process. Results on the Mini Cheetah robot verify the increased capabilities due to the newly extracted heuristics without any modification to the controller structure or gains.


Title: Learning Generalizable Locomotion Skills with Hierarchical Reinforcement Learning
Abstract: Learning to locomote to arbitrary goals on hardware remains a challenging problem for reinforcement learning. In this paper, we present a hierarchical framework that improves sample-efficiency and generalizability of learned locomotion skills on real-world robots. Our approach divides the problem of goal-oriented locomotion into two sub-problems: learning diverse primitives skills, and using model-based planning to sequence these skills. We parametrize our primitives as cyclic movements, improving sample-efficiency of learning from scratch on a 18 degrees of freedom robot. Then, we learn coarse dynamics models over primitive cycles and use them in a model predictive control framework. This allows us to learn to walk to arbitrary goals up to 12m away, after about two hours of training from scratch on hardware. Our results on a Daisy hexapod hardware and simulation demonstrate the efficacy of our approach at reaching distant targets, in different environments, and with sensory noise.


Title: Cooperative Multi-Robot Navigation in Dynamic Environment with Deep Reinforcement Learning
Abstract: The challenges of multi-robot navigation in dynamic environments lie in uncertainties in obstacle complexities, partially observation of robots, and policy implementation from simulations to the real world. This paper presents a cooperative approach to address the multi-robot navigation problem (MRNP) under dynamic environments using a deep reinforcement learning (DRL) framework, which can help multiple robots jointly achieve optimal paths despite a certain degree of obstacle complexities. The novelty of this work includes threefold: (1) developing a cooperative architecture that robots can exchange information with each other to select the optimal target locations; (2) developing a DRL based framework which can learn a navigation policy to generate the optimal paths for multiple robots; (3) developing a training mechanism based on dynamics randomization which can make the policy generalized and achieve the maximum performance in the real world. The method is tested with Gazebo simulations and 4 differential drive robots. Both simulation and experiment results validate the superior performance of the proposed method in terms of success rate and travel time when compared with the other state-of-art technologies.


Title: Grasp State Assessment of Deformable Objects Using Visual-Tactile Fusion Perception
Abstract: Humans can quickly determine the force required to grasp a deformable object to prevent its sliding or excessive deformation through vision and touch, which is still a challenging task for robots. To address this issue, we propose a novel 3D convolution-based visual-tactile fusion deep neural network (C3D-VTFN) to evaluate the grasp state of various deformable objects in this paper. Specifically, we divide the grasp states of deformable objects into three categories of sliding, appropriate and excessive. Also, a dataset for training and testing the proposed network is built by extensive grasping and lifting experiments with different widths and forces on 16 various deformable objects with a robotic arm equipped with a wrist camera and a tactile sensor. As a result, a classification accuracy as high as 99.97% is achieved. Furthermore, some delicate grasp experiments based on the proposed network are implemented in this paper. The experimental results demonstrate that the C3D-VTFN is accurate and efficient enough for grasp state assessment, which can be widely applied to automatic force control, adaptive grasping, and other visual-tactile spatiotemporal sequence learning problems.


Title: What’s in my Room? Object Recognition on Indoor Panoramic Images
Abstract: In the last few years, there has been a growing interest in taking advantage of the 360° panoramic images potential, while managing the new challenges they imply. While several tasks have been improved thanks to the contextual information these images offer, object recognition in indoor scenes still remains a challenging problem that has not been deeply investigated. This paper provides an object recognition system that performs object detection and semantic segmentation tasks by using a deep learning model adapted to match the nature of equirectangular images. From these results, instance segmentation masks are recovered, refined and transformed into 3D bounding boxes that are placed into the 3D model of the room. Quantitative and qualitative results support that our method outperforms the state of the art by a large margin and show a complete understanding of the main objects in indoor scenes.


Title: FisheyeDistanceNet: Self-Supervised Scale-Aware Distance Estimation using Monocular Fisheye Camera for Autonomous Driving
Abstract: Fisheye cameras are commonly used in applications like autonomous driving and surveillance to provide a large field of view (> 180o). However, they come at the cost of strong non-linear distortions which require more complex algorithms. In this paper, we explore Euclidean distance estimation on fisheye cameras for automotive scenes. Obtaining accurate and dense depth supervision is difficult in practice, but self-supervised learning approaches show promising results and could potentially overcome the problem. We present a novel self-supervised scale-aware framework for learning Euclidean distance and ego-motion from raw monocular fisheye videos without applying rectification. While it is possible to perform piece-wise linear approximation of fisheye projection surface and apply standard rectilinear models, it has its own set of issues like re-sampling distortion and discontinuities in transition regions. To encourage further research in this area, we will release our dataset as part of the WoodScape project [1]. We further evaluated the proposed algorithm on the KITTI dataset and obtained state-of-the-art results comparable to other self-supervised monocular methods. Qualitative results on an unseen fisheye video demonstrate impressive performance1.


Title: 360SD-Net: 360° Stereo Depth Estimation with Learnable Cost Volume
Abstract: Recently, end-to-end trainable deep neural networks have significantly improved stereo depth estimation for perspective images. However, 360° images captured under equirectangular projection cannot benefit from directly adopting existing methods due to distortion introduced (i.e., lines in 3D are not projected onto lines in 2D). To tackle this issue, we present a novel architecture specifically designed for spherical disparity using the setting of top-bottom 360° camera pairs. Moreover, we propose to mitigate the distortion issue by (1) an additional input branch capturing the position and relation of each pixel in the spherical coordinate, and (2) a cost volume built upon a learnable shifting filter. Due to the lack of 360° stereo data, we collect two 360° stereo datasets from Matterport3D and Stanford3D for training and evaluation. Extensive experiments and ablation study are provided to validate our method against existing algorithms. Finally, we show promising results on real-world environments capturing images with two consumer-level cameras. Our project page is at https://albert100121.github.io/360SD-Net-Project-Page.


Title: Omnidirectional Depth Extension Networks
Abstract: Omnidirectional 360° camera proliferates rapidly for autonomous robots since it significantly enhances the perception ability by widening the field of view (FoV). However, corresponding 360° depth sensors, which are also critical for the perception system, are still difficult or expensive to have. In this paper, we propose a low-cost 3D sensing system that combines an omnidirectional camera with a calibrated projective depth camera, where the depth from the limited FoV can be automatically extended to the rest of recorded omnidirectional image. To accurately recover the missing depths, we design an omnidirectional depth extension convolutional neural network (ODE-CNN), in which a spherical feature transform layer (SFTL) is embedded at the end of feature encoding layers, and a deformable convolutional spatial propagation network (D-CSPN) is appended at the end of feature decoding layers. The former re-samples the neighborhood of each pixel in the omnidirectional coordination to the projective coordination, which reduce the difficulty of feature learning, and the later automatically finds a proper context to well align the structures in the estimated depths via CNN w.r.t. the reference image, which significantly improves the visual quality. Finally, we demonstrate the effectiveness of proposed ODE-CNN over the popular 360D dataset, and show that ODE-CNN significantly outperforms (relatively 33% reduction in depth error) other state-of-the-art (SoTA) methods.


Title: Implementing Tactile and Proximity Sensing for Crack Detection
Abstract: Remote characterisation of the environment during physical robot-environment interaction is an important task commonly accomplished in telerobotics. This paper demonstrates how tactile and proximity sensing can be efficiently used to perform automatic crack detection. A custom-designed integrated tactile and proximity sensor is implemented. It measures the deformation of its body when interacting with the physical environment and distance to the environment's objects with the help of fibre optics. This sensor was used to slide across different surfaces and the data recorded during the experiments was used to detect and classify cracks, bumps and undulations. The proposed method uses machine learning techniques (mean absolute value as feature and random forest as classifier) to detect cracks and determine their width. An average crack detection accuracy of 86.46% and width classification accuracy of 57.30% is achieved. Kruskal-Wallis results (p<; 0.001) indicate statistically significant differences among results obtained when analysing only force data, only proximity data and both force and proximity data. In contrast to previous techniques, which mainly rely on visual modality, the proposed approach based on optical fibres is suitable for operation in extreme environments, such as nuclear facilities in which nuclear radiation may damage the electronic components of video cameras.


Title: Learning View and Target Invariant Visual Servoing for Navigation
Abstract: The advances in deep reinforcement learning recently revived interest in data-driven learning based approaches to navigation. In this paper we propose to learn viewpoint invariant and target invariant visual servoing for local mobile robot navigation; given an initial view and the goal view or an image of a target, we train deep convolutional network controller to reach the desired goal. We present a new architecture for this task which rests on the ability of establishing correspondences between the initial and goal view and novel reward structure motivated by the traditional feedback control error. The advantage of the proposed model is that it does not require calibration and depth information and achieves robust visual servoing in a variety of environments and targets without any parameter fine tuning. We present comprehensive evaluation of the approach and comparison with other deep learning architectures as well as classical visual servoing methods in visually realistic simulation environment [1]. The presented model overcomes the brittleness of classical visual servoing based methods and achieves significantly higher generalization capability compared to the previous learning approaches.


Title: Scaling Local Control to Large-Scale Topological Navigation
Abstract: Visual topological navigation has been revitalized recently thanks to the advancement of deep learning that substantially improves robot perception. However, the scalability and reliability issue remain challenging due to the complexity and ambiguity of real world images and mechanical constraints of real robots. We present an intuitive approach to show that by accurately measuring the capability of a local controller, large-scale visual topological navigation can be achieved while being scalable and robust. Our approach achieves state-of-the-art results in trajectory following and planning in large-scale environments. It also generalizes well to real robots and new environments without retraining or finetuning.


Title: Zero-shot Imitation Learning from Demonstrations for Legged Robot Visual Navigation
Abstract: Imitation learning is a popular approach for training effective visual navigation policies. However, collecting expert demonstrations for legged robots is challenging as these robots can be hard to control, move slowly, and cannot operate continuously for long periods of time. In this work, we propose a zero-shot imitation learning framework for training a goal-driven visual navigation policy on a legged robot from human demonstrations (third-person perspective), allowing for high-quality navigation and cost-effective data collection. However, imitation learning from third-person demonstrations raises unique challenges. First, these demonstrations are captured from different camera perspectives, which we address via a feature disentanglement network (FDN) that extracts perspective-invariant state features. Second, as transition dynamics vary between systems, we reconstruct missing action labels by either building an inverse model of the robot's dynamics in the feature space and applying it to the human demonstrations or developing a Graphic User Interface (GUI) to label human demonstrations. To train a navigation policy we use a model-based imitation learning approach with FDN and action-labeled human demonstrations. We show that our framework can learn an effective policy for a legged robot, Laikago, from human demonstrations in both simulated and real-world environments. Our approach is zero-shot as the robot never navigates the same paths during training as those at testing time. We justify our framework by performing a comparative study.


Title: Knowledge-Guided Reinforcement Learning Control for Robotic Lower Limb Prosthesis
Abstract: Robotic prostheses provide new opportunities to better restore lost functions than passive prostheses for trans-femoral amputees. But controlling a prosthesis device automatically for individual users in different task environments is an unsolved problem. Reinforcement learning (RL) is a naturally promising tool. For prosthesis control with a user in the loop, it is desirable that the controlled prosthesis can adapt to different task environments as quickly and smoothly as possible. However, most RL agents learn or relearn from scratch when the environment changes. To address this issue, we propose the knowledge-guided Q-learning (KG-QL) control method as a principled way for the problem. In this report, we collected and used data from two able-bodied (AB) subjects wearing a RL controlled robotic prosthetic limb walking on level ground. Our ultimate goal is to build an efficient RL controller with reduced time and data requirements and transfer knowledge from AB subjects to amputee subjects. Toward this goal, we demonstrate its feasibility by employing OpenSim, a well-established human locomotion simulator. Our results show the OpenSim simulated amputee subject improved control tuning performance over learning from scratch by utilizing knowledge transfer from AB subjects. Also in this paper, we will explore the possibility of information transfer from AB subjects to help tuning for the amputee subjects.


Title: Underwater Image Super-Resolution using Deep Residual Multipliers
Abstract: We present a deep residual network-based generative model for single image super-resolution (SISR) of underwater imagery for use by autonomous underwater robots. We also provide an adversarial training pipeline for learning SISR from paired data. In order to supervise the training, we formulate an objective function that evaluates the perceptual quality of an image based on its global content, color, and local style information. Additionally, we present USR-248, a large-scale dataset of three sets of underwater images of `high' (640×480) and `low' (80 × 60, 160 × 120, and 320×240) resolution. USR-248 contains paired instances for supervised training of 2×, 4×, or 8× SISR models. Furthermore, we validate the effectiveness of our proposed model through qualitative and quantitative experiments and compare the results with several state-of-the-art models' performances. We also analyze its practical feasibility for applications such as scene understanding and attention modeling in noisy visual conditions.


Title: Hand Pose Estimation for Hand-Object Interaction Cases using Augmented Autoencoder
Abstract: Hand pose estimation with objects is challenging due to object occlusion and the lack of large annotated datasets. To tackle these issues, we propose an Augmented Autoencoder based deep learning method using augmented clean hand data. Our method takes 3D point cloud of a hand with an augmented object as input and encodes the input to latent representation of the hand. From the latent representation, our method decodes 3D hand pose and we propose to use an auxiliary point cloud decoder to assist the formation of the latent space. Through quantitative and qualitative evaluation on both synthetic dataset and real captured data containing objects, we demonstrate state-of-the-art performance for hand pose estimation with objects, even using only a small number of annotated hand-object samples.


Title: Accurate detection and 3D localization of humans using a novel YOLO-based RGB-D fusion approach and synthetic training data
Abstract: While 2D object detection has made significant progress, robustly localizing objects in 3D space under presence of occlusion is still an unresolved issue. Our focus in this work is on real-time detection of human 3D centroids in RGB-D data. We propose an image-based detection approach which extends the YOLO v3 architecture with a 3D centroid loss and mid-level feature fusion to exploit complementary information from both modalities. We employ a transfer learning scheme which can benefit from existing large-scale 2D object detection datasets, while at the same time learning end-to-end 3D localization from our highly randomized, diverse synthetic RGB-D dataset with precise 3D groundtruth. We further propose a geometrically more accurate depth-aware crop augmentation for training on RGB-D data, which helps to improve 3D localization accuracy. In experiments on our challenging intralogistics dataset, we achieve state-of-the-art performance even when learning 3D localization just from synthetic data.


Title: Probabilistic Data Association via Mixture Models for Robust Semantic SLAM
Abstract: Modern robotic systems sense the environment geometrically, through sensors like cameras, lidar, and sonar, as well as semantically, often through visual models learned from data, such as object detectors. We aim to develop robots that can use all of these sources of information for reliable navigation, but each is corrupted by noise. Rather than assume that object detection will eventually achieve near perfect performance across the lifetime of a robot, in this work we represent and cope with the semantic and geometric uncertainty inherent in object detection methods. Specifically, we model data association ambiguity, which is typically non-Gaussian, in a way that is amenable to solution within the common nonlinear Gaussian formulation of simultaneous localization and mapping (SLAM). We do so by eliminating data association variables from the inference process through max-marginalization, preserving standard Gaussian posterior assumptions. The result is a max-mixture-type model that accounts for multiple data association hypotheses. We provide experimental results on indoor and outdoor semantic navigation tasks with noisy odometry and object detection and find that the ability of the proposed approach to represent multiple hypotheses, including the "null" hypothesis, gives substantial robustness advantages in comparison to alternative semantic SLAM approaches.


Title: PointAtrousGraph: Deep Hierarchical Encoder-Decoder with Point Atrous Convolution for Unorganized 3D Points
Abstract: Motivated by the success of encoding multi-scale contextual information for image analysis, we propose our PointAtrousGraph (PAG) - a deep permutation-invariant hierarchical encoder-decoder for efficiently exploiting multi-scale edge features in point clouds. Our PAG is constructed by several novel modules, such as Point Atrous Convolution (PAC), Edgepreserved Pooling (EP) and Edge-preserved Unpooling (EU). Similar with atrous convolution, our PAC can effectively enlarge receptive fields of filters and thus densely learn multi-scale point features. Following the idea of non-overlapping maxpooling operations, we propose our EP to preserve critical edge features during subsampling. Correspondingly, our EU modules gradually recover spatial information for edge features. In addition, we introduce chained skip subsampling/upsampling modules that directly propagate edge features to the final stage. Particularly, our proposed auxiliary loss functions can further improve our performance. Experimental results show that our PAG outperform previous state-of-the-art methods on various 3D semantic perception applications.


Title: Learning error models for graph SLAM
Abstract: Following recent developments, this paper investigates the possibility to predict uncertainty models for monocular graph SLAM using topological features of the problem. An architecture to learn relative (i.e. inter-keyframe) uncertainty models using the resistance distance in the covisibility graph is presented. The proposed architecture is applied to simulated UAV coverage path planning trajectories and an analysis of the approaches strengths and shortcomings is provided.


Title: A 3D-Deep-Learning-based Augmented Reality Calibration Method for Robotic Environments using Depth Sensor Data
Abstract: Augmented Reality and mobile robots are gaining increased attention within industries due to the high potential to make processes cost and time efficient. To facilitate augmented reality, a calibration between the Augmented Reality device and the environment is necessary. This is a challenge when dealing with mobile robots due to the mobility of all entities making the environment dynamic. On this account, we propose a novel approach to calibrate Augmented Reality devices using 3D depth sensor data. We use the depth camera of a Head Mounted Augmented Reality Device, the Microsoft Hololens, for deep learning-based calibration. Therefore, we modified a neural network based on the recently published VoteNet architecture which works directly on raw point cloud input observed by the Hololens. We achieve satisfying results and eliminate external tools like markers, thus enabling a more intuitive and flexible work flow for Augmented Reality integration. The results are adaptable to work with all depth cameras and are promising for further research. Furthermore, we introduce an open source 3D point cloud labeling tool, which is to our knowledge the first open source tool for labeling raw point cloud data.


Title: Adversarial Feature Training for Generalizable Robotic Visuomotor Control
Abstract: Deep reinforcement learning (RL) has enabled training action-selection policies, end-to-end, by learning a function which maps image pixels to action outputs. However, it's application to visuomotor robotic policy training has been limited because of the challenge of large-scale data collection when working with physical hardware. A suitable visuomotor policy should perform well not just for the task-setup it has been trained for, but also for all varieties of the task, including novel objects at different viewpoints surrounded by task-irrelevant objects. However, it is impractical for a robotic setup to sufficiently collect interactive samples in a RL framework to generalize well to novel aspects of a task. In this work, we demonstrate that by using adversarial training for domain transfer, it is possible to train visuomotor policies based on RL frameworks, and then transfer the acquired policy to other novel task domains. We propose to leverage the deep RL capabilities to learn complex visuomotor skills for uncomplicated task setups, and then exploit transfer learning to generalize to new task domains provided only still images of the task in the target domain. We evaluate our method on two real robotic tasks, picking and pouring, and compare it to a number of prior works, demonstrating its superiority.


Title: Efficient Bimanual Manipulation Using Learned Task Schemas
Abstract: We address the problem of effectively composing skills to solve sparse-reward tasks in the real world. Given a set of parameterized skills (such as exerting a force or doing a top grasp at a location), our goal is to learn policies that invoke these skills to efficiently solve such tasks. Our insight is that for many tasks, the learning process can be decomposed into learning a state-independent task schema (a sequence of skills to execute) and a policy to choose the parameterizations of the skills in a state-dependent manner. For such tasks, we show that explicitly modeling the schema's state-independence can yield significant improvements in sample efficiency for model-free reinforcement learning algorithms. Furthermore, these schemas can be transferred to solve related tasks, by simply re-learning the parameterizations with which the skills are invoked. We find that doing so enables learning to solve sparse-reward tasks on real-world robotic systems very efficiently. We validate our approach experimentally over a suite of robotic bimanual manipulation tasks, both in simulation and on real hardware. See videos at http://tinyurl.com/chitnis-schema.


Title: Learning-based Path Planning for Autonomous Exploration of Subterranean Environments
Abstract: In this work we present a new methodology on learning-based path planning for autonomous exploration of subterranean environments using aerial robots. Utilizing a recently proposed graph-based path planner as a "training expert" and following an approach relying on the concepts of imitation learning, we derive a trained policy capable of guiding the robot to autonomously explore underground mine drifts and tunnels. The algorithm utilizes only a short window of range data sampled from the onboard LiDAR and achieves an exploratory behavior similar to that of the training expert with a more than an order of magnitude reduction in computational cost, while simultaneously relaxing the need to maintain a consistent and online reconstructed map of the environment. The trained path planning policy is extensively evaluated both in simulation and experimentally within field tests relating to the autonomous exploration of underground mines.


Title: Learning to Drive Off Road on Smooth Terrain in Unstructured Environments Using an On-Board Camera and Sparse Aerial Images
Abstract: We present a method for learning to drive on smooth terrain while simultaneously avoiding collisions in challenging off-road and unstructured outdoor environments using only visual inputs. Our approach applies a hybrid model-based and model-free reinforcement learning method that is entirely self-supervised in labeling terrain roughness and collisions using on-board sensors. Notably, we provide both first-person and overhead aerial image inputs to our model. We nd that the fusion of these complementary inputs improves planning foresight and makes the model robust to visual obstructions. Our results show the ability to generalize to environments with plentiful vegetation, various types of rock, and sandy trails. During evaluation, our policy attained 90% smooth terrain traversal and reduced the proportion of rough terrain driven over by 6.1 times compared to a model using only first-person imagery. Video and project details can be found at www.cim.mcgill.ca/mrl/offroad_driving/.


Title: Adversarial Feature Disentanglement for Place Recognition Across Changing Appearance
Abstract: When robots move autonomously for long-term, varied appearance such as the transition from day to night and seasonal variation brings challenges to visual place recognition. Defining an appearance condition (e.g. a season, a kind of weather) as a domain, we consider that the desired representation for place recognition (i) should be domain-unrelated so that images from different time can be matched regardless of varied appearance, (ii) should be learned in a self-supervised manner without the need of massive manually labeled data, and (iii) should be able to train among multiple domains in one model to keep limited model complexity. This paper sets to find domain-unrelated features across extremely changing appearance, which can be used as image descriptors to match between images collected at different conditions. We propose to use the adversarial network to disentangle domain-unrelated and domain-related features, which are named place and appearance features respectively. During training, only domain information is needed without requiring manually aligned image sequences. Experiments demonstrated that our method can disentangle place and appearance features in both toy case and images from the real world, and the place feature is qualified in place recognition tasks under different appearance conditions. The proposed network is also adaptable to multiple domains without increasing model capacity and shows favorable generalization.


Title: Context-Aware Task Execution Using Apprenticeship Learning
Abstract: An essential measure of autonomy in assistive service robots is adaptivity to the various contexts of human-oriented tasks, which are subject to subtle variations in task parameters that determine optimal behaviour. In this work, we propose an apprenticeship learning approach to achieving context-aware action generalization on the task of robot-to-human object hand-over. The procedure combines learning from demonstration and reinforcement learning: a robot first imitates a demonstrator's execution of the task and then learns contextualized variants of the demonstrated action through experience. We use dynamic movement primitives as compact motion representations, and a model-based C-REPS algorithm for learning policies that can specify hand-over position, conditioned on context variables. Policies are learned using simulated task executions, before transferring them to the robot and evaluating emergent behaviours. We additionally conduct a user study involving participants assuming different postures and receiving an object from a robot, which executes hand-overs by either imitating a demonstrated motion, or adapting its motion to hand-over positions suggested by the learned policy. The results confirm the hypothesized improvements in the robot's perceived behaviour when it is context-aware and adaptive, and provide useful insights that can inform future developments.


Title: Hierarchical Interest-Driven Goal Babbling for Efficient Bootstrapping of Sensorimotor skills
Abstract: We propose a novel hierarchical online learning scheme for fast and efficient bootstrapping of sensorimotor skills. Our scheme permits rapid data-driven robot model learning in a "learning while behaving" fashion. It is updated continuously to adapt to time-dependent changes and driven by an intrinsic motivation signal. It utilizes an online associative radial basis function network, which is the first associative dynamic network to be constructed from scratch with high stability. Moreover, we propose a parameter-sharing technique to increase efficiency, stabilize the online scheme, avoid exhaustive parameter tuning, and speed up the learning process. We apply our proposed algorithms on a 7-DoF physical robot manipulator and demonstrate their performance and efficiency.


Title: Robot-Supervised Learning for Object Segmentation
Abstract: To be effective in unstructured and changing environments, robots must learn to recognize new objects. Deep learning has enabled rapid progress for object detection and segmentation in computer vision; however, this progress comes at the price of human annotators labeling many training examples. This paper addresses the problem of extending learning-based segmentation methods to robotics applications where annotated training data is not available. Our method enables pixelwise segmentation of grasped objects. We factor the problem of segmenting the object from the background into two sub-problems: (1) segmenting the robot manipulator and object from the background and (2) segmenting the object from the manipulator. We propose a kinematics-based foreground segmentation technique to solve (1). To solve (2), we train a self-recognition network that segments the robot manipulator. We train this network without human supervision, leveraging our foreground segmentation technique from (1) to label a training set of images containing the robot manipulator without a grasped object. We demonstrate experimentally that our method outperforms state-of-the-art adaptable in-hand object segmentation. We also show that a training set composed of automatically labelled images of grasped objects improves segmentation performance on a test set of images of the same objects in the environment.


Title: Gradient and Log-based Active Learning for Semantic Segmentation of Crop and Weed for Agricultural Robots
Abstract: Annotated datasets are essential for supervised learning. However, annotating large datasets is a tedious and time-intensive task. This paper addresses active learning in the context of semantic segmentation with the goal of reducing the human labeling effort. Our application is agricultural robotics and we focus on the task of distinguishing between crop and weed plants from image data. A key challenge in this application is the transfer of an existing semantic segmentation CNN to a new field, in which growth stage, weeds, soil, and weather conditions differ. We propose a novel approach that, given a trained model on one field together with rough foreground segmentation, refines the network on a substantially different field providing an effective method of selecting samples to annotate for supporting the transfer. We evaluated our approach on two challenging datasets from the agricultural robotics domain and show that we achieve a higher accuracy with a smaller number of samples compared to random sampling as well as entropy based sampling, which consequently reduces the required human labeling effort.


Title: Learning How to Walk: Warm-starting Optimal Control Solver with Memory of Motion
Abstract: In this paper, we propose a framework to build a memory of motion for warm-starting an optimal control solver for the locomotion task of a humanoid robot. We use HPP Loco3D, a versatile locomotion planner, to generate offline a set of dynamically consistent whole-body trajectory to be stored as the memory of motion. The learning problem is formulated as a regression problem to predict a single-step motion given the desired contact locations, which is used as a building block for producing multi-step motions. The predicted motion is then used as a warm-start for the fast optimal control solver Crocoddyl. We have shown that the approach manages to reduce the required number of iterations to reach the convergence from ~9.5 to only ~3.0 iterations for the single-step motion and from ~6.2 to ~4.5 iterations for the multi-step motion, while maintaining the solution's quality.


Title: Feedback Linearization for Uncertain Systems via Reinforcement Learning
Abstract: We present a novel approach to control design for nonlinear systems which leverages model-free policy optimization techniques to learn a linearizing controller for a physical plant with unknown dynamics. Feedback linearization is a technique from nonlinear control which renders the input-output dynamics of a nonlinear plant linear under application of an appropriate feedback controller. Once a linearizing controller has been constructed, desired output trajectories for the nonlinear plant can be tracked using a variety of linear control techniques. However, the calculation of a linearizing controller requires a precise dynamics model for the system. As a result, model-based approaches for learning exact linearizing controllers generally require a simple, highly structured model of the system with easily identifiable parameters. In contrast, the model-free approach presented in this paper is able to approximate the linearizing controller for the plant using general function approximation architectures. Specifically, we formulate a continuous-time optimization problem over the parameters of a learned linearizing controller whose optima are the set of parameters which best linearize the plant. We derive conditions under which the learning problem is (strongly) convex and provide guarantees which ensure the true linearizing controller for the plant is recovered. We then discuss how model-free policy optimization algorithms can be used to solve a discrete-time approximation to the problem using data collected from the real-world plant. The utility of the framework is demonstrated in simulation and on a real-world robotic platform.


Title: Reliable Trajectories for Dynamic Quadrupeds using Analytical Costs and Learned Initializations
Abstract: Dynamic traversal of uneven terrain is a major objective in the field of legged robotics. The most recent model predictive control approaches for these systems can generate robust dynamic motion of short duration; however, planning over a longer time horizon may be necessary when navigating complex terrain. A recently-developed framework, Trajectory Optimization for Walking Robots (TOWR), computes such plans but does not guarantee their reliability on real platforms, under uncertainty and perturbations. We extend TOWR with analytical costs to generate trajectories that a state-of-the-art whole-body tracking controller can successfully execute. To reduce online computation time, we implement a learning-based scheme for initialization of the nonlinear program based on offline experience. The execution of trajectories as long as 16 footsteps and 5.5 s over different terrains by a real quadruped demonstrates the effectiveness of the approach on hardware. This work builds toward an online system which can efficiently and robustly replan dynamic trajectories.


Title: Learning to Generate 6-DoF Grasp Poses with Reachability Awareness
Abstract: Motivated by the stringent requirements of unstructured real-world where a plethora of unknown objects reside in arbitrary locations of the surface, we propose a voxel-based deep 3D Convolutional Neural Network (3D CNN) that generates feasible 6-DoF grasp poses in unrestricted workspace with reachability awareness. Unlike the majority of works that predict if a proposed grasp pose within the restricted workspace will be successful solely based on grasp pose stability, our approach further learns a reachability predictor that evaluates if the grasp pose is reachable or not from robot's own experience. To avoid the laborious real training data collection, we exploit the power of simulation to train our networks on a large-scale synthetic dataset. This work is an early attempt that simultaneously learns grasping reachability while proposing feasible grasp poses with 3D CNN. Experimental results in both simulation and real-world demonstrate that our approach outperforms several other methods and achieves 82.5% grasping success rate on unknown objects.


Title: BatVision: Learning to See 3D Spatial Layout with Two Ears
Abstract: Many species have evolved advanced non-visual perception while artificial systems fall behind. Radar and ultrasound complement camera-based vision but they are often too costly and complex to set up for very limited information gain. In nature, sound is used effectively by bats, dolphins, whales, and humans for navigation and communication. However, it is unclear how to best harness sound for machine perception.Inspired by bats' echolocation mechanism, we design a low- cost BatVision system that is capable of seeing the 3D spatial layout of space ahead by just listening with two ears. Our system emits short chirps from a speaker and records returning echoes through microphones in an artificial human pinnae pair. During training, we additionally use a stereo camera to capture color images for calculating scene depths. We train a model to predict depth maps and even grayscale images from the sound alone. During testing, our trained BatVision provides surprisingly good predictions of 2D visual scenes from two 1D audio signals. Such a sound to vision system would benefit robot navigation and machine vision, especially in low-light or no-light conditions. Our code and data are publicly available.


Title: Self-Supervised Learning for Alignment of Objects and Sound
Abstract: The sound source separation problem has many useful applications in the field of robotics, such as human-robot interaction, scene understanding, etc. However, it remains a very challenging problem. In this paper, we utilize both visual and audio information of videos to perform the sound source separation task. A self-supervised learning framework is proposed to implement the object detection and sound separation modules simultaneously. Such an approach is designed to better find the alignment between the detected objects and separated sound components. Our experiments, conducted on both the synthetic and real datasets, validate this approach and demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed model in the task of object and sound alignment.


Title: Calibrating a Soft ERT-Based Tactile Sensor with a Multiphysics Model and Sim-to-real Transfer Learning
Abstract: Tactile sensors based on electrical resistance tomography (ERT) have shown many advantages for implementing a soft and scalable whole-body robotic skin; however, calibration is challenging because pressure reconstruction is an ill-posed inverse problem. This paper introduces a method for calibrating soft ERT-based tactile sensors using sim-to-real transfer learning with a finite element multiphysics model. The model is composed of three simple models that together map contact pressure distributions to voltage measurements. We optimized the model parameters to reduce the gap between the simulation and reality. As a preliminary study, we discretized the sensing points into a 6 by 6 grid and synthesized single- and two-point contact datasets from the multiphysics model. We obtained another single-point dataset using the real sensor with the same contact location and force used in the simulation. Our new deep neural network architecture uses a de-noising network to capture the simulation-to-real gap and a reconstruction network to estimate contact force from voltage measurements. The proposed approach showed 82% hit rate for localization and 0.51 N of force estimation error performance in singlecontact tests and 78.5% hit rate for localization and 5.0 N of force estimation error in two-point contact tests. We believe this new calibration method has the possibility to improve the sensing performance of ERT-based tactile sensors.


Title: Sim-to-Real Transfer for Optical Tactile Sensing
Abstract: Deep learning and reinforcement learning methods have been shown to enable learning of flexible and complex robot controllers. However, the reliance on large amounts of training data often requires data collection to be carried out in simulation, with a number of sim-to-real transfer methods being developed in recent years. In this paper, we study these techniques for tactile sensing using the TacTip optical tactile sensor, which consists of a deformable tip with a camera observing the positions of pins inside this tip. We designed a model for soft body simulation which was implemented using the Unity physics engine, and trained a neural network to predict the locations and angles of edges when in contact with the sensor. Using domain randomisation techniques for sim-to-real transfer, we show how this framework can be used to accurately predict edges with less than 1 mm prediction error in real-world testing, without any real-world data at all.


Title: Semi-Empirical Simulation of Learned Force Response Models for Heterogeneous Elastic Objects
Abstract: This paper presents a semi-empirical method for simulating contact with elastically deformable objects whose force response is learned using entirely data-driven models. A point-based surface representation and an inhomogeneous, nonlinear force response model are learned from a robotic arm acquiring force-displacement curves from a small number of poking interactions. The simulator then estimates displacement and force response when the deformable object is in contact with an arbitrary rigid object. It does so by estimating displacements by solving a Hertzian contact model, and sums the expected forces at individual surface points through querying the learned point stiffness models as a function of their expected displacements. Experiments on a variety of challenging objects show that our approach learns force response with sufficient accuracy to generate plausible contact response for novel rigid objects.


Title: Enabling Topological Planning with Monocular Vision
Abstract: Topological strategies for navigation meaningfully reduce the space of possible actions available to a robot, allowing use of heuristic priors or learning to enable computationally efficient, intelligent planning. The challenges in estimating structure with monocular SLAM in low texture or highly cluttered environments have precluded its use for topological planning in the past. We propose a robust sparse map representation that can be built with monocular vision and overcomes these shortcomings. Using a learned sensor, we estimate high-level structure of an environment from streaming images by detecting sparse "vertices" (e.g., boundaries of walls) and reasoning about the structure between them. We also estimate the known free space in our map, a necessary feature for planning through previously unknown environments. We show that our mapping technique can be used on real data and is sufficient for planning and exploration in simulated multi-agent search and learned subgoal planning applications.


Title: SnapNav: Learning Mapless Visual Navigation with Sparse Directional Guidance and Visual Reference
Abstract: Learning-based visual navigation still remains a challenging problem in robotics, with two overarching issues: how to transfer the learnt policy to unseen scenarios, and how to deploy the system on real robots. In this paper, we propose a deep neural network based visual navigation system, SnapNav. Unlike map-based navigation or Visual-Teach-and-Repeat (VT&R), SnapNav only receives a few snapshots of the environment combined with directional guidance to allow it to execute the navigation task. Additionally, SnapNav can be easily deployed on real robots due to a two-level hierarchy: a high level commander that provides directional commands and a low level controller that provides real-time control and obstacle avoidance. This also allows us to effectively use simulated and real data to train the different layers of the hierarchy, facilitating robust control. Extensive experimental results show that SnapNav achieves a highly autonomous navigation ability compared to baseline models, enabling sparse, map-less navigation in previously unseen environments.


Title: Kimera: an Open-Source Library for Real-Time Metric-Semantic Localization and Mapping
Abstract: We provide an open-source C++ library for real-time metric-semantic visual-inertial Simultaneous Localization And Mapping (SLAM). The library goes beyond existing visual and visual-inertial SLAM libraries (e.g., ORB-SLAM, VINS-Mono, OKVIS, ROVIO) by enabling mesh reconstruction and semantic labeling in 3D. Kimera is designed with modularity in mind and has four key components: a visual-inertial odometry (VIO) module for fast and accurate state estimation, a robust pose graph optimizer for global trajectory estimation, a lightweight 3D mesher module for fast mesh reconstruction, and a dense 3D metric-semantic reconstruction module. The modules can be run in isolation or in combination, hence Kimera can easily fall back to a state-of-the-art VIO or a full SLAM system. Kimera runs in real-time on a CPU and produces a 3D metric-semantic mesh from semantically labeled images, which can be obtained by modern deep learning methods. We hope that the flexibility, computational efficiency, robustness, and accuracy afforded by Kimera will build a solid basis for future metric-semantic SLAM and perception research, and will allow researchers across multiple areas (e.g., VIO, SLAM, 3D reconstruction, segmentation) to benchmark and prototype their own efforts without having to start from scratch.


Title: CityLearn: Diverse Real-World Environments for Sample-Efficient Navigation Policy Learning
Abstract: Visual navigation tasks in real-world environments often require both self-motion and place recognition feedback. While deep reinforcement learning has shown success in solving these perception and decision-making problems in an end-to-end manner, these algorithms require large amounts of experience to learn navigation policies from high-dimensional data, which is generally impractical for real robots due to sample complexity. In this paper, we address these problems with two main contributions. We first leverage place recognition and deep learning techniques combined with goal destination feedback to generate compact, bimodal image representations that can then be used to effectively learn control policies from a small amount of experience. Second, we present an interactive framework, CityLearn, that enables for the first time training and deployment of navigation algorithms across city-sized, realistic environments with extreme visual appearance changes. CityLearn features more than 10 benchmark datasets, often used in visual place recognition and autonomous driving research, including over 100 recorded traversals across 60 cities around the world. We evaluate our approach on two CityLearn environments, training our navigation policy on a single traversal per dataset. Results show our method can be over 2 orders of magnitude faster than when using raw images, and can also generalize across extreme visual changes including day to night and summer to winter transitions.


Title: Predicting and Optimizing Ergonomics in Physical Human-Robot Cooperation Tasks
Abstract: This paper presents a method to incorporate ergonomics into the optimization of action sequences for bi-manual human-robot cooperation tasks with continuous physical interaction. Our first contribution is a novel computational model of the human that allows prediction of an ergonomics assessment corresponding to each step in a task. The model is learned from human motion capture data in order to predict the human pose as realistically as possible. The second contribution is a combination of this prediction model with an informed graph search algorithm, which allows computation of human-robot cooperative plans with improved ergonomics according to the incorporated method for ergonomic assessment. The concepts have been evaluated in simulation and in a small user study in which the subjects manipulate a large object with a 32 DoF bimanual mobile robot as partner. For all subjects, the ergonomic-enhanced planner shows their reduced ergonomic cost compared to a baseline planner.


Title: Active Reward Learning for Co-Robotic Vision Based Exploration in Bandwidth Limited Environments
Abstract: We present a novel POMDP problem formulation for a robot that must autonomously decide where to go to collect new and scientifically relevant images given a limited ability to communicate with its human operator. From this formulation we derive constraints and design principles for the observation model, reward model, and communication strategy of such a robot, exploring techniques to deal with the very high-dimensional observation space and scarcity of relevant training data. We introduce a novel active reward learning strategy based on making queries to help the robot minimize path "regret" online, and evaluate it for suitability in autonomous visual exploration through simulations. We demonstrate that, in some bandwidth-limited environments, this novel regret-based criterion enables the robotic explorer to collect up to 17% more reward per mission than the next-best criterion.


Title: Enhancing Coral Reef Monitoring Utilizing a Deep Semi-Supervised Learning Approach
Abstract: Coral species detection underwater is a challenging problem. There are many cases when even the experts (marine biologists) fail to recognize corals, hence limiting ground truth annotation for training a robust detection system. Identifying coral species is fundamental for enabling the monitoring of coral reefs, a task currently performed by humans, which can be automated with the use of underwater robots. By employing temporal cues using a tracker on a high confidence prediction by a convolutional neural network-based object detector, we augment the collected dataset for the retraining of the object detector. However, using trackers to extract examples also introduces hard or mislabelled samples, which is counterproductive and will deteriorate the performance of the detector. In this work, we show that employing a simple deep neural network to filter out hard or mislabelled samples can help regulate sample extraction. We empirically evaluate our approach in a coral object dataset, collected via an Autonomous Underwater Vehicle (AUV) and human divers, that shows the benefit of incorporating extracted examples obtained from tracking. This work also demonstrates how controlling sample generation by tracking using a simple deep neural network can further improve an object detector.


Title: DOB-Net: Actively Rejecting Unknown Excessive Time-Varying Disturbances
Abstract: This paper presents an observer-integrated Reinforcement Learning (RL) approach, called Disturbance OB-server Network (DOB-Net), for robots operating in environments where disturbances are unknown and time-varying, and may frequently exceed robot control capabilities. The DOB-Net integrates a disturbance dynamics observer network and a controller network. Originated from conventional DOB mechanisms, the observer is built and enhanced via Recurrent Neural Networks (RNNs), encoding estimation of past values and prediction of future values of unknown disturbances in RNN hidden state. Such encoding allows the controller generate optimal control signals to actively reject disturbances, under the constraints of robot control capabilities. The observer and the controller are jointly learned within policy optimization by advantage actor critic. Numerical simulations on position regulation tasks have demonstrated that the proposed DOB-Net significantly outperforms conventional feedback controllers and classical RL policy.


Title: Enabling Robots to Understand Incomplete Natural Language Instructions Using Commonsense Reasoning
Abstract: Enabling robots to understand instructions provided via spoken natural language would facilitate interaction between robots and people in a variety of settings in homes and workplaces. However, natural language instructions are often missing information that would be obvious to a human based on environmental context and common sense, and hence does not need to be explicitly stated. In this paper, we introduce Language-Model-based Commonsense Reasoning (LMCR), a new method which enables a robot to listen to a natural language instruction from a human, observe the environment around it, and automatically fill in information missing from the instruction using environmental context and a new commonsense reasoning approach. Our approach first converts an instruction provided as unconstrained natural language into a form that a robot can understand by parsing it into verb frames. Our approach then fills in missing information in the instruction by observing objects in its vicinity and leveraging commonsense reasoning. To learn commonsense reasoning automatically, our approach distills knowledge from large unstructured textual corpora by training a language model. Our results show the feasibility of a robot learning commonsense knowledge automatically from web-based textual corpora, and the power of learned commonsense reasoning models in enabling a robot to autonomously perform tasks based on incomplete natural language instructions.


Title: FlowNorm: A Learning-based Method for Increasing Convergence Range of Direct Alignment
Abstract: Many approaches have been proposed to estimate camera poses by directly minimizing photometric error. However, due to the non-convex property of direct alignment, proper initialization is still required for these methods. Many robust norms (e.g. Huber norm) have been proposed to deal with the outlier terms caused by incorrect initializations. These robust norms are solely defined on the magnitude of each error term. In this paper, we propose a novel robust norm, named FlowNorm, that exploits the information from both the local error term and the global image registration information. While the local information is defined on patch alignments, the global information is estimated using a learning-based network. Using both the local and global information, we achieve a large convergence range in which images can be aligned given large view angle changes or small overlaps. We further demonstrate the usability of the proposed robust norm by integrating it into the direct methods DSO and BA-Net, and generate more robust and accurate results in real-time.


Title: ∇SLAM: Dense SLAM meets Automatic Differentiation
Abstract: The question of "representation" is central in the context of dense simultaneous localization and mapping (SLAM). Learning-based approaches have the potential to leverage data or task performance to directly inform the representation. However, blending representation learning approaches with "classical" SLAM systems has remained an open question, because of their highly modular and complex nature. A SLAM system transforms raw sensor inputs into a distribution over the state(s) of the robot and the environment. If this transformation (SLAM) were expressible as a differentiable function, we could leverage task-based error signals over the outputs of this function to learn representations that optimize task performance. However, this is infeasible as several components of a typical dense SLAM system are non-differentiable. In this work, we propose ∇SLAM (gradSLAM), a methodology for posing SLAM systems as differentiable computational graphs, which unifies gradient-based learning and SLAM. We propose differentiable trust-region optimizers, surface measurement and fusion schemes, and raycasting, without sacrificing accuracy. This amalgamation of dense SLAM with computational graphs enables us to backprop all the way from 3D maps to 2D pixels, opening up new possibilities in gradient-based learning for SLAM1.


Title: Learning local behavioral sequences to better infer non-local properties in real multi-robot systems
Abstract: When members of a multi-robot team follow regular motion rules sensitive to robots and other environmental factors within sensing range, the team itself may become an informational fabric for gaining situational awareness without explicit signalling among robots. In our previous work [1], we used machine learning to develop a scalable module, trained only on data from 3-robot teams, that could predict the positions of all robots in larger multi-robot teams based only on observations of the movement of a robot's nearest neighbor. Not only was this approach scalable from 3-to-many robots, but it did not require knowledge of the control laws of the robots under observation, as would a traditional observer-based approach. However, performance was only tested in simulation and could only be a substitute for explicit communication for short periods of time or in cases of very low sensing noise. In this work, we apply more sophisticated machine learning methods to data from a physically realized robotic team to develop Remote Teammate Localization (ReTLo) modules that can be used in realistic environments. To be specific, we adopt Long-Short-Term-Memory (LSTM) [2] to learn the evolution of behaviors in a modular team, which has the effect of greatly reducing errors from regression outcomes. In contrast with our previous work in simulation, all of the experiments conducted in this work were conducted on the Thymio physical, two-wheeled robotic platform.


Title: Unsupervised Geometry-Aware Deep LiDAR Odometry
Abstract: Learning-based ego-motion estimation approaches have recently drawn strong interest from researchers, mostly focusing on visual perception. A few learning-based approaches using Light Detection and Ranging (LiDAR) have been re-ported; however, they heavily rely on a supervised learning manner. Despite the meaningful performance of these approaches, supervised training requires ground-truth pose labels, which is the bottleneck for real-world applications. Differing from these approaches, we focus on unsupervised learning for LiDAR odometry (LO) without trainable labels. Achieving trainable LO in an unsupervised manner, we introduce the uncertainty-aware loss with geometric confidence, thereby al-lowing the reliability of the proposed pipeline. Evaluation on the KITTI, Complex Urban, and Oxford RobotCar datasets demonstrate the prominent performance of the proposed method compared to conventional model-based methods. The proposed method shows a comparable result against SuMa (in KITTI), LeGO-LOAM (in Complex Urban), and Stereo-VO (in Oxford RobotCar). The video and extra-information of the paper are described in https://sites.google.com/view/deeplo.


Title: SA-Net: Robust State-Action Recognition for Learning from Observations
Abstract: Learning from observation (LfO) offers a new paradigm for transferring task behavior to robots. LfO requires the robot to observe the task being performed and decompose the sensed streaming data into sequences of state-action pairs, which are then input to LfO methods. Thus, recognizing the state-action pairs correctly and quickly in sensed data is a crucial prerequisite. We present SA-Net a deep neural network architecture that recognizes state-action pairs from RGB-D data streams. SA-Net performs well in two replicated robotic applications of LfO - one involving mobile ground robots and another involving a robotic manipulator - which demonstrates that the architecture could generalize well to differing contexts. Comprehensive evaluations including deployment on a physical robot show that SA-Net significantly improves on the accuracy of the previous methods under various conditions.


Title: A Generative Approach for Socially Compliant Navigation
Abstract: Robots navigating in human crowds need to optimize their paths not only for their task performance but also for their compliance to social norms. One of the key challenges in this context is the lack of standard metrics for evaluating and optimizing a socially compliant behavior. Existing works in social navigation can be grouped according to the differences in their optimization objectives. For instance, the reinforcement learning approaches tend to optimize on the comfort aspect of the socially compliant navigation, whereas the inverse reinforcement learning approaches are designed to achieve natural behavior. In this paper, we propose NaviGAN, a generative navigation algorithm that jointly optimizes both of the comfort and naturalness aspects. Our approach is designed as an adversarial training framework that can learn to generate a navigation path that is both optimized for achieving a goal and for complying with latent social rules. A set of experiments has been carried out on multiple datasets to demonstrate the strengths of the proposed approach quantitatively. We also perform extensive experiments using a physical robot in a realworld environment to qualitatively evaluate the trained social navigation behavior. The video recordings of the robot experiments can be found in the link: https://youtu.be/61blDymjCpw.


Title: Scalable Multi-Task Imitation Learning with Autonomous Improvement
Abstract: While robot learning has demonstrated promising results for enabling robots to automatically acquire new skills, a critical challenge in deploying learning-based systems is scale: acquiring enough data for the robot to effectively generalize broadly. Imitation learning, in particular, has remained a stable and powerful approach for robot learning, but critically relies on expert operators for data collection. In this work, we target this challenge, aiming to build an imitation learning system that can continuously improve through autonomous data collection, while simultaneously avoiding the explicit use of reinforcement learning, to maintain the stability, simplicity, and scalability of supervised imitation. To accomplish this, we cast the problem of imitation with autonomous improvement into a multi-task setting. We utilize the insight that, in a multi-task setting, a failed attempt at one task might represent a successful attempt at another task. This allows us to leverage the robot's own trials as demonstrations for tasks other than the one that the robot actually attempted. Using an initial dataset of multitask demonstration data, the robot autonomously collects trials which are only sparsely labeled with a binary indication of whether the trial accomplished any useful task or not. We then embed the trials into a learned latent space of tasks, trained using only the initial demonstration dataset, to draw similarities between various trials, enabling the robot to achieve one-shot generalization to new tasks. In contrast to prior imitation learning approaches, our method can autonomously collect data with sparse supervision for continuous improvement, and in contrast to reinforcement learning algorithms, our method can effectively improve from sparse, task-agnostic reward signals.


Title: Motion2Vec: Semi-Supervised Representation Learning from Surgical Videos
Abstract: Learning meaningful visual representations in an embedding space can facilitate generalization in downstream tasks such as action segmentation and imitation. In this paper, we learn a motion-centric representation of surgical video demonstrations by grouping them into action segments/subgoals/options in a semi-supervised manner. We present Motion2Vec, an algorithm that learns a deep embedding feature space from video observations by minimizing a metric learning loss in a Siamese network: images from the same action segment are pulled together while pushed away from randomly sampled images of other segments, while respecting the temporal ordering of the images. The embeddings are iteratively segmented with a recurrent neural network for a given parametrization of the embedding space after pre-training the Siamese network. We only use a small set of labeled video segments to semantically align the embedding space and assign pseudo-labels to the remaining unlabeled data by inference on the learned model parameters. We demonstrate the use of this representation to imitate surgical suturing kinematic motions from publicly available videos of the JIGSAWS dataset. Results give 85.5% segmentation accuracy on average suggesting performance improvement over several state-of-the-art baselines, while kinematic pose imitation gives 0.94 centimeter error in position per observation on the test set. Videos, code and data are available at: https://sites.google.com/view/motion2vec.


Title: Reinforcement Learning Based Manipulation Skill Transferring for Robot-assisted Minimally Invasive Surgery
Abstract: The complexity of surgical operation can be released significantly if surgical robots can learn the manipulation skills by imitation from complex tasks demonstrations such as puncture, suturing, and knotting, etc.. This paper proposes a reinforcement learning algorithm based manipulation skill transferring technique for robot-assisted Minimally Invasive Surgery by Teaching by Demonstration. It employed Gaussian mixture model and Gaussian mixture Regression based dynamic movement primitive to model the high-dimensional human-like manipulation skill after multiple demonstrations. Furthermore, this approach fascinates the learning and trial phase performed offline, which reduces the risks and cost for the practical surgical operation. Finally, it is demonstrated by transferring manipulation skills for reaching and puncture using a KUKA LWR4+ robot in a lab setup environment. The results show the effectiveness of the proposed approach for modelling and learning of human manipulation skill.


Title: On the Human Control of a Multiple Quadcopters with a Cable-suspended Payload System
Abstract: A quadcopter is an under-actuated system with only four control inputs for six degrees of freedom, and yet the human control of a quadcopter is simple enough to be learned with some practice. In this work, we consider the problem of human control of a multiple quadcopters system to transport a cable-suspended payload. The coupled dynamics of the system, due to the inherent physical constraints, is used to develop a leader-follower architecture where the leader quadcopter is controlled directly by a human operator and the followers are controlled with the proposed Payload Attitude Controller and Cable Attitude Controller. Experiments, where a human operator flew a two quadcopters system to transport a cable-suspended payload, were conducted to study the performance of proposed controller. The results demonstrated successful implementation of human control in these systems. This work presents the possibility of enabling manual control for on-the-go maneuvering of the quadcopter-payload system which motivates aerial transportation in the unknown environments.


Title: Fine-Grained Driving Behavior Prediction via Context-Aware Multi-Task Inverse Reinforcement Learning
Abstract: Research on advanced driver assistance systems for reducing risks to vulnerable road users (VRUs) has recently gained popularity because the traffic accident reduction rate for VRUs is still small. Dealing with unexpected VRU movements on residential roads requires proficient acceleration and deceleration. Although fine-grained prediction of driving behavior through inverse reinforcement learning (IRL) has been reported with promising results in recent years, learning of a precise model fails when driving strategies vary with contextual factors, i.e., weather, time of day, road width, and traffic direction. In this work, we propose a novel multi-task IRL approach with a multilinear reward function to incorporate contextual information into the model. This approach can provide precise long-term prediction of fine-grained driving behavior while adjusting to context. Experimental results using actual driving data over 141 km with various contexts and roads confirm the success of this approach in terms of predicting defensive driving strategy even in unknown situations.


Title: Binary DAD-Net: Binarized Driveable Area Detection Network for Autonomous Driving
Abstract: Driveable area detection is a key component for various applications in the field of autonomous driving (AD), such as ground-plane detection, obstacle detection and maneuver planning. Additionally, bulky and over-parameterized networks can be easily forgone and replaced with smaller networks for faster inference on embedded systems. The driveable area detection, posed as a two class segmentation task, can be efficiently modeled with slim binary networks. This paper proposes a novel binarized driveable area detection network (binary DAD-Net), which uses only binary weights and activations in the encoder, the bottleneck, and the decoder part. The latent space of the bottleneck is efficiently increased (×32→×16 downsampling) through binary dilated convolutions, learning more complex features. Along with automatically generated training data, the binary DAD-Net outperforms state-of-the-art semantic segmentation networks on public datasets. In comparison to a full-precision model, our approach has a ×14.3 reduced compute complexity on an FPGA and it requires only 0.9MB memory resources. Therefore, commodity SIMD-based AD-hardware is capable of accelerating the binary DAD-Net.


Title: Self-Supervised Deep Pose Corrections for Robust Visual Odometry
Abstract: We present a self-supervised deep pose correction (DPC) network that applies pose corrections to a visual odometry estimator to improve its accuracy. Instead of regressing inter-frame pose changes directly, we build on prior work that uses data-driven learning to regress pose corrections that account for systematic errors due to violations of modelling assumptions. Our self-supervised formulation removes any requirement for six-degrees-of-freedom ground truth and, in contrast to expectations, often improves overall navigation accuracy compared to a supervised approach. Through extensive experiments, we show that our self-supervised DPC network can significantly enhance the performance of classical monocular and stereo odometry estimators and substantially out-performs state-of-the-art learning-only approaches.


Title: Preference-Based Learning for Exoskeleton Gait Optimization
Abstract: This paper presents a personalized gait optimization framework for lower-body exoskeletons. Rather than optimizing numerical objectives such as the mechanical cost of transport, our approach directly learns from user prefer-ences, e.g., for comfort. Building upon work in preference-based interactive learning, we present the CoSpar algorithm. CoSpar prompts the user to give pairwise preferences between trials and suggest improvements; as exoskeleton walking is a non-intuitive behavior, users can provide preferences more easily and reliably than numerical feedback. We show that CoSpar performs competitively in simulation and demonstrate a prototype implementation of CoSpar on a lower-body exoskeleton to optimize human walking trajectory features. In the experiments, CoSpar consistently found user-preferred parameters of the exoskeleton's walking gait, which suggests that it is a promising starting point for adapting and personalizing exoskeletons (or other assistive devices) to individual users.


Title: Adaptive Neural Trajectory Tracking Control for Flexible-Joint Robots with Online Learning
Abstract: Collaborative robots and space manipulators contain significant joint flexibility. It complicates the control design, compromises the control bandwidth, and limits the tracking accuracy. The imprecise knowledge of the flexible joint dynamics compounds the challenge. In this paper, we present a new control architecture for controlling flexible-joint robots. Our approach uses a multi-layer neural network to approximate unknown dynamics needed for the feedforward control. The network may be viewed as a linear-in-parameter representation of the robot dynamics, with the nonlinear basis of the robot dynamics connected to the linear output layer. The output layer weights are updated based on the tracking error and the nonlinear basis. The internal weights of the nonlinear basis are updated by online backpropagation to further reduce the tracking error. To use time scale separation to reduce the coupling of the two steps - the update of the internal weights is at a lower rate compared to the update of the output layer weights. With the update of the output layer weights, our controller adapts quickly to the unknown dynamics change and disturbances (such as attaching a load). The update of the internal weights would continue to improve the converge of the nonlinear basis functions. We show the stability of the proposed scheme under the "outer loop" control, where the commanded joint position is considered as the control input. Simulation and physical experiments are conducted to demonstrate the performance of the proposed controller on a Baxter robot, which exhibits significant joint flexibility due to the series-elastic joint actuators.


Title: BiCF: Learning Bidirectional Incongruity-Aware Correlation Filter for Efficient UAV Object Tracking
Abstract: Correlation filters (CFs) have shown excellent performance in unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV) tracking scenarios due to their high computational efficiency. During the UAV tracking process, viewpoint variations are usually accompanied by changes in the object and background appearance, which poses a unique challenge to CF-based trackers. Since the appearance is gradually changing over time, an ideal tracker can not only forward predict the object position but also backtrack to locate its position in the previous frame. There exist response-based errors in the reversibility of the tracking process containing the information on the changes in appearance. However, some existing methods do not consider the forward and backward errors based on while using only the current training sample to learn the filter. For other ones, the applicants of considerable historical training samples impose a computational burden on the UAV. In this work, a novel bidirectional incongruity-aware correlation filter (BiCF) is proposed. By integrating the response-based bidirectional incongruity error into the CF, BiCF can Efficiently learn the changes in appearance and suppress the inconsistent error. Extensive experiments on 243 challenging sequences from three UAV datasets (UAV123, UAVDT, and DTB70) are conducted to demonstrate that BiCF favorably outperforms other 25 state-of-the-art trackers and achieves a real-time speed of 45.4 FPS on a single CPU, which can be applied in UAV Efficiently.


Title: Adaptive Unknown Object Rearrangement Using Low-Cost Tabletop Robot
Abstract: Studies on object rearrangement planning typically consider known objects. Some learning-based methods can predict the movement of an unknown object after single-step interaction, but require intermediate targets, which are generated manually, to achieve the rearrangement task. In this work, we propose a framework for unknown object rearrangement. Our system first models an object through a small-amount of identification actions and adjust the model parameters during task execution. We implement the proposed framework based on a low-cost tabletop robot (under 180 USD) to demonstrate the advantages of using a physics engine to assist action prediction. Experimental results reveal that after running our adaptive learning procedure, the robot can successfully arrange a novel object using an average of five discrete pushes on our tabletop environment and satisfy a precise 3.5 cm translation and 5° rotation criterion.


Title: Unsupervised Learning and Exploration of Reachable Outcome Space
Abstract: Performing Reinforcement Learning in sparse rewards settings, with very little prior knowledge, is a challenging problem since there is no signal to properly guide the learning process. In such situations, a good search strategy is fundamental. At the same time, not having to adapt the algorithm to every single problem is very desirable. Here we introduce TAXONS, a Task Agnostic eXploration of Outcome spaces through Novelty and Surprise algorithm. Based on a population-based divergent-search approach, it learns a set of diverse policies directly from high-dimensional observations, without any task-specific information. TAXONS builds a repertoire of policies while training an autoencoder on the high-dimensional observation of the final state of the system to build a low-dimensional outcome space. The learned outcome space, combined with the reconstruction error, is used to drive the search for new policies. Results show that TAXONS can find a diverse set of controllers, covering a good part of the ground-truth outcome space, while having no information about such space.


Title: Context-aware Cost Shaping to Reduce the Impact of Model Error in Receding Horizon Control
Abstract: This paper presents a method to enable a robot using stochastic Model Predictive Control (MPC) to achieve high performance on a repetitive path-following task. In particular, we consider the case where the accuracy of the model for robot dynamics varies significantly over the path-motivated by the fact that the models used in MPC must be computationally efficient, which limits their expressive power. Our approach is based on correcting the cost predicted using a simple learned dynamics model over the MPC horizon. This discourages the controller from taking actions that lead to higher cost than would have been predicted using the dynamics model. In addition, stochastic MPC provides a quantitative measure of safety by limiting the probability of violating state and input constraints over the prediction horizon. Our approach is unique in that it combines both online model learning and cost learning over the prediction horizon and is geared towards operating a robot in changing conditions. We demonstrate our algorithm in simulation and experiment on a ground robot that uses a stereo camera for localization.


Title: Collaborative Robot-Assisted Endovascular Catheterization with Generative Adversarial Imitation Learning
Abstract: Master-slave systems for endovascular catheterization have brought major clinical benefits including reduced radiation doses to the operators, improved precision and stability of the instruments, as well as reduced procedural duration. Emerging deep reinforcement learning (RL) technologies could potentially automate more complex endovascular tasks with enhanced success rates, more consistent motion and reduced fatigue and cognitive workload of the operators. However, the complexity of the pulsatile flows within the vasculature and non-linear behavior of the instruments hinder the use of model-based approaches for RL. This paper describes model-free generative adversarial imitation learning to automate a standard arterial catherization task. The automation policies have been trained in a pre-clinical setting. Detailed validation results show high success rates after skill transfer to a different vascular anatomical model. The quality of the catheter motions also shows less mean and maximum contact forces compared to manual-based approaches.


Title: GA3C Reinforcement Learning for Surgical Steerable Catheter Path Planning
Abstract: Path planning algorithms for steerable catheters, must guarantee anatomical obstacles avoidance, reduce the insertion length and ensure the compliance with needle kinematics. The majority of the solutions in literature focuses on graph based or sampling based methods, both limited by the impossibility to directly obtain smooth trajectories. In this work we formulate the path planning problem as a reinforcement learning problem and show that the trajectory planning model, generated from the training, can provide the user with optimal trajectories in terms of obstacle clearance and kinematic constraints. We obtain 2D and 3D environments from MRI images processing and we implement a GA3C algorithm to create a path planning model, able to generalize on different patients anatomies. The curvilinear trajectories obtained from the model in 2D and 3D environments are compared to the ones obtained by A* and RRT* algorithms. Our method achieves state-of-the-art performances in terms of obstacle avoidance, trajectory smoothness and computational time proving this algorithm as valid planning method for complex environments.


Title: Targeted Drug Delivery: Algorithmic Methods for Collecting a Swarm of Particles with Uniform, External Forces
Abstract: We investigate algorithmic approaches for targeted drug delivery in a complex, maze-like environment, such as a vascular system. The basic scenario is given by a large swarm of micro-scale particles ("agents") and a particular target region ("tumor") within a system of passageways. Agents are too small to contain on-board power or computation and are instead controlled by a global external force that acts uniformly on all particles, such as an applied fluidic flow or electromagnetic field. The challenge is to deliver all agents to the target region with a minimum number of actuation steps. We provide a number of results for this challenge. We show that the underlying problem is NP-hard, which explains why previous work did not provide provably efficient algorithms. We also develop a number of algorithmic approaches that greatly improve the worst-case guarantees for the number of required actuation steps. We evaluate our algorithmic approaches by a number of simulations, both for deterministic algorithms and searches supported by deep learning, which show that the performance is practically promising.


Title: Learning Control Policies from Optimal Trajectories
Abstract: The ability to optimally control robotic systems offers significant advantages for their performance. While time-dependent optimal trajectories can numerically be computed for high dimensional nonlinear system dynamic models, constraints and objectives, finding optimal feedback control policies for such systems is hard. This is unfortunate, as without a policy, the control of real-world systems requires frequent correction or replanning to compensate for disturbances and model errors.In this paper, a feedback control policy is learned from a set of optimal reference trajectories using Gaussian processes. Information from existing trajectories and the current policy is used to find promising start points for the computation of further optimal trajectories. This aspect is important as it avoids exhaustive sampling of the complete state space, which is impractical due to the high dimensional state space, and to focus on the relevant region.The presented method has been applied in simulation to a swing-up problem of an underactuated pendulum and an energy-minimal point-to-point movement of a 3-DOF industrial robot.


Title: Grasp for Stacking via Deep Reinforcement Learning
Abstract: Integrated robotic arm system should contain both grasp and place actions. However, most grasping methods focus more on how to grasp objects, while ignoring the placement of the grasped objects, which limits their applications in various industrial environments. In this research, we propose a model-free deep Q-learning method to learn the grasping-stacking strategy end-to-end from scratch. Our method maps the images to the actions of the robotic arm through two deep networks: the grasping network (GNet) using the observation of the desk and the pile to infer the gripper's position and orientation for grasping, and the stacking network (SNet) using the observation of the platform to infer the optimal location when placing the grasped object. To make a long-range planning, the two observations are integrated in the grasping for stacking network (GSN). We evaluate the proposed GSN on a grasping-stacking task in both simulated and real-world scenarios.


Title: Self-Supervised Sim-to-Real Adaptation for Visual Robotic Manipulation
Abstract: Collecting and automatically obtaining reward signals from real robotic visual data for the purposes of training reinforcement learning algorithms can be quite challenging and time-consuming. Methods for utilizing unlabeled data can have a huge potential to further accelerate robotic learning. We consider here the problem of performing manipulation tasks from pixels. In such tasks, choosing an appropriate state representation is crucial for planning and control. This is even more relevant with real images where noise, occlusions and resolution affect the accuracy and reliability of state estimation. In this work, we learn a latent state representation implicitly with deep reinforcement learning in simulation, and then adapt it to the real domain using unlabeled real robot data. We propose to do so by optimizing sequence-based self- supervised objectives. These use the temporal nature of robot experience, and can be common in both the simulated and real domains, without assuming any alignment of underlying states in simulated and unlabeled real images. We further propose a novel such objective, the Contrastive Forward Dynamics loss, which combines dynamics model learning with time-contrastive techniques. The learned state representation that results from our methods can be used to robustly solve a manipulation task in simulation and to successfully transfer the learned skill on a real system. We demonstrate the effectiveness of our approaches by training a vision-based reinforcement learning agent for cube stacking. Agents trained with our method, using only 5 hours of unlabeled real robot data for adaptation, shows a clear improvement over domain randomization, and standard visual domain adaptation techniques for sim-to-real transfer.


Title: Meta Reinforcement Learning for Sim-to-real Domain Adaptation
Abstract: Modern reinforcement learning methods suffer from low sample efficiency and unsafe exploration, making it infeasible to train robotic policies entirely on real hardware. In this work, we propose to address the problem of sim-to-real domain transfer by using meta learning to train a policy that can adapt to a variety of dynamic conditions, and using a task-specific trajectory generation model to provide an action space that facilitates quick exploration. We evaluate the method by performing domain adaptation in simulation and analyzing the structure of the latent space during adaptation. We then deploy this policy on a KUKA LBR 4+ robot and evaluate its performance on a task of hitting a hockey puck to a target. Our method shows more consistent and stable domain adaptation than the baseline, resulting in better overall performance.


Title: Variational Auto-Regularized Alignment for Sim-to-Real Control
Abstract: General-purpose simulators can be a valuable data source for flexible learning and control approaches. However, training models or control policies in simulation and then directly applying to hardware can yield brittle control. Instead, we propose a novel way to use simulators as regularizers. Our approach regularizes a decoder of a variational autoencoder to a black-box simulation, with the latent space bound to a subset of simulator parameters. This enables successful encoder training from a small number of real-world trajectories (10 in our experiments), yielding a latent space with simulation parameter distribution that matches the real-world setting. We use a learnable mixture for the latent prior/posterior, which implies a highly flexible class of densities for the posterior fit. Our approach is scalable and does not require restrictive distributional assumptions. We demonstrate ability to recover matching parameter distributions on a range of benchmarks, challenging custom simulation environments and several real-world scenarios. Our experiments using ABB YuMi robot hardware show ability to help reinforcement learning approaches overcome cases of severe sim-to-real mismatch.


Title: Experience Selection Using Dynamics Similarity for Efficient Multi-Source Transfer Learning Between Robots
Abstract: In the robotics literature, different knowledge transfer approaches have been proposed to leverage the experience from a source task or robot-real or virtual-to accelerate the learning process on a new task or robot. A commonly made but infrequently examined assumption is that incorporating experience from a source task or robot will be beneficial. In practice, inappropriate knowledge transfer can result in negative transfer or unsafe behaviour. In this work, inspired by a system gap metric from robust control theory, the ν-gap, we present a data-efficient algorithm for estimating the similarity between pairs of robot systems. In a multi-source inter-robot transfer learning setup, we show that this similarity metric allows us to predict relative transfer performance and thus informatively select experiences from a source robot before knowledge transfer. We demonstrate our approach with quadrotor experiments, where we transfer an inverse dynamics model from a real or virtual source quadrotor to enhance the tracking performance of a target quadrotor on arbitrary hand-drawn trajectories. We show that selecting experiences based on the proposed similarity metric effectively facilitates the learning of the target quadrotor, improving performance by 62% compared to a poorly selected experience.


Title: DeepRacer: Autonomous Racing Platform for Experimentation with Sim2Real Reinforcement Learning
Abstract: DeepRacer is a platform for end-to-end experimentation with RL and can be used to systematically investigate the key challenges in developing intelligent control systems. Using the platform, we demonstrate how a 1/18th scale car can learn to drive autonomously using RL with a monocular camera. It is trained in simulation with no additional tuning in the physical world and demonstrates: 1) formulation and solution of a robust reinforcement learning algorithm, 2) narrowing the reality gap through joint perception and dynamics, 3) distributed on-demand compute architecture for training optimal policies, and 4) a robust evaluation method to identify when to stop training. It is the first successful large-scale deployment of deep reinforcement learning on a robotic control agent that uses only raw camera images as observations and a model-free learning method to perform robust path planning. We open source our code and video demo on GitHub2.


Title: Learning Face Recognition Unsupervisedly by Disentanglement and Self-Augmentation
Abstract: As the growth of smart home, healthcare, and home robot applications, learning a face recognition system which is specific for a particular environment and capable of self-adapting to the temporal changes in appearance (e.g., caused by illumination or camera position) is nowadays an important topic. In this paper, given a video of a group of people, which simulates the surveillance video in a smart home environment, we propose a novel approach which unsuper- visedly learns a face recognition model based on two main components: (1) a triplet network that extracts identity-aware feature from face images for performing face recognition by clustering, and (2) an augmentation network that is conditioned on the identity-aware features and aims at synthesizing more face samples. Particularly, the training data for the triplet network is obtained by using the spatiotemporal characteristic of face samples within a video, while the augmentation network learns to disentangle a face image into identity-aware and identity-irrelevant features thus is able to generate new faces of the same identity but with variance in appearance. With taking the richer training data produced by augmentation network, the triplet network is further fine-tuned and achieves better performance in face recognition. Extensive experiments not only show the efficacy of our model in learning an environment- specific face recognition model unsupervisedly, but also verify its adaptability to various appearance changes.


Title: Neural-Swarm: Decentralized Close-Proximity Multirotor Control Using Learned Interactions
Abstract: In this paper, we present Neural-Swarm, a nonlinear decentralized stable controller for close-proximity flight of multirotor swarms. Close-proximity control is challenging due to the complex aerodynamic interaction effects between multirotors, such as downwash from higher vehicles to lower ones. Conventional methods often fail to properly capture these interaction effects, resulting in controllers that must maintain large safety distances between vehicles, and thus are not capable of close-proximity flight. Our approach combines a nominal dynamics model with a regularized permutation-invariant Deep Neural Network (DNN) that accurately learns the high-order multi-vehicle interactions. We design a stable nonlinear tracking controller using the learned model. Experimental results demonstrate that the proposed controller significantly outperforms a baseline nonlinear tracking controller with up to four times smaller worst-case height tracking errors. We also empirically demonstrate the ability of our learned model to generalize to larger swarm sizes.


Title: Imitative Reinforcement Learning Fusing Vision and Pure Pursuit for Self-driving
Abstract: Autonomous urban driving navigation is still an open problem and has ample room for improvement in unknown complex environments and terrible weather conditions. In this paper, we propose a two-stage framework, called IPP-RL, to handle these problems. IPP means an Imitation learning method fusing visual information with the additional steering angle calculated by Pure-Pursuit (PP) method, and RL means using Reinforcement Learning for further training. In our IPP model, the visual information captured by camera can be compensated by the calculated steering angle, thus it could perform well under bad weather conditions. However, imitation learning performance is limited by the driving data severely. Thus we use a reinforcement learning method-Deep Deterministic Policy Gradient (DDPG)-in the second stage training, which shares the learned weights from pretrained IPP model. In this way, our IPP-RL can lower the dependency of imitation learning on demonstration data and solve the problem of low exploration efficiency caused by randomly initialized weights in reinforcement learning. Moreover, we design a more reasonable reward function and use the n-step return to update the critic-network in DDPG. Our experiments on CARLA driving benchmark demonstrate that our IPP-RL is robust to lousy weather conditions and shows remarkable generalization capability in unknown environments on navigation task.


Title: Adversarial Appearance Learning in Augmented Cityscapes for Pedestrian Recognition in Autonomous Driving
Abstract: In the autonomous driving area synthetic data is crucial for cover specific traffic scenarios which autonomous vehicle must handle. This data commonly introduces domain gap between synthetic and real domains. In this paper we deploy data augmentation to generate custom traffic scenarios with VRUs in order to improve pedestrian recognition. We provide a pipeline for augmentation of the Cityscapes dataset with virtual pedestrians. In order to improve augmentation realism of the pipeline we reveal a novel generative network architecture for adversarial learning of the data-set lighting conditions. We also evaluate our approach on the tasks of semantic and instance segmentation.


Title: To Learn or Not to Learn: Visual Localization from Essential Matrices
Abstract: Visual localization is the problem of estimating a camera within a scene and a key technology for autonomous robots. State-of-the-art approaches for accurate visual localization use scene-specific representations, resulting in the overhead of constructing these models when applying the techniques to new scenes. Recently, learned approaches based on relative pose estimation have been proposed, carrying the promise of easily adapting to new scenes. However, they are currently significantly less accurate than state-of-the-art approaches. In this paper, we are interested in analyzing this behavior. To this end, we propose a novel framework for visual localization from relative poses. Using a classical feature-based approach within this framework, we show state-of-the-art performance. Replacing the classical approach with learned alternatives at various levels, we then identify the reasons for why deep learned approaches do not perform well. Based on our analysis, we make recommendations for future work.


Title: MANGA: Method Agnostic Neural-policy Generalization and Adaptation
Abstract: In this paper we target the problem of transferring policies across multiple environments with different dynamics parameters and motor noise variations, by introducing a framework that decouples the processes of policy learning and system identification. Efficiently transferring learned policies to an unknown environment with changes in dynamics configurations in the presence of motor noise is very important for operating robots in the real world, and our work is a novel attempt in that direction. We introduce MANGA: Method Agnostic Neural-policy Generalization and Adaptation, that trains dynamics conditioned policies and efficiently learns to estimate the dynamics parameters of the environment given off-policy state-transition rollouts in the environment. Our scheme is agnostic to the type of training method used - both reinforcement learning (RL) and imitation learning (IL) strategies can be used. We demonstrate the effectiveness of our approach by experimenting with four different MuJoCo agents and comparing against previously proposed transfer baselines.


Title: Fast Adaptation of Deep Reinforcement Learning-Based Navigation Skills to Human Preference
Abstract: Deep reinforcement learning (RL) is being actively studied for robot navigation due to its promise of superior performance and robustness. However, most existing deep RL navigation agents are trained using fixed parameters, such as maximum velocities and weightings of reward components. Since the optimal choice of parameters depends on the use-case, it can be difficult to deploy such existing methods in a variety of real-world service scenarios. In this paper, we propose a novel deep RL navigation method that can adapt its policy to a wide range of parameters and reward functions without expensive retraining. Additionally, we explore a Bayesian deep learning method to optimize these parameters that requires only a small amount of preference data. We empirically show that our method can learn diverse navigation skills and quickly adapt its policy to a given performance metric or to human preference. We also demonstrate our method in real-world scenarios.


Title: Variational Inference with Mixture Model Approximation for Applications in Robotics
Abstract: We propose to formulate the problem of representing a distribution of robot configurations (e.g. joint angles) as that of approximating a product of experts. Our approach uses variational inference, a popular method in Bayesian computation, which has several practical advantages over sampling-based techniques. To be able to represent complex and multimodal distributions of configurations, mixture models are used as approximate distribution. We show that the problem of approximating a distribution of robot configurations while satisfying multiple objectives arises in a wide range of problems in robotics, for which the properties of the proposed approach have relevant consequences. Several applications are discussed, including learning objectives from demonstration, planning, and warm-starting inverse kinematics problems. Simulated experiments are presented with a 7-DoF Panda arm and a 28-DoF Talos humanoid.


Title: Action Image Representation: Learning Scalable Deep Grasping Policies with Zero Real World Data
Abstract: This paper introduces Action Image, a new grasp proposal representation that allows learning an end-to-end deep-grasping policy. Our model achieves 84% grasp success on 172 real world objects while being trained only in simulation on 48 objects with just naive domain randomization. Similar to computer vision problems, such as object detection, Action Image builds on the idea that object features are invariant to translation in image space. Therefore, grasp quality is invariant when evaluating the object-gripper relationship; a successful grasp for an object depends on its local context, but is independent of the surrounding environment. Action Image represents a grasp proposal as an image and uses a deep convolutional network to infer grasp quality. We show that by using an Action Image representation, trained networks are able to extract local, salient features of grasping tasks that generalize across different objects and environments. We show that this representation works on a variety of inputs, including color images (RGB), depth images (D), and combined color-depth (RGB-D). Our experimental results demonstrate that networks utilizing an Action Image representation exhibit strong domain transfer between training on simulated data and inference on real-world sensor streams. Finally, our experiments show that a network trained with Action Image improves grasp success (84% vs. 53%) over a baseline model with the same structure, but using actions encoded as vectors.


Title: High Accuracy and Efficiency Grasp Pose Detection Scheme with Dense Predictions
Abstract: Learning-based grasp pose detection algorithms have boosted the performance of robot grasping, but they usually need manually fine-tuning steps to find the balance between detection accuracy and efficient. In this paper, we discard these intermediate procedures, like sampling grasps and generating grasp proposals, and propose an end-to-end grasp pose detection model. Our model uses the RGB image as the input and predicts the single grasp pose in each small grid of the image. Furthermore, the best grasps are found by non-maximum suppression (NMS) strategy. The clustering and ranking procedures are left for NMS while the network only generates dense grasp predictions, which keeps the network simple and efficient. To achieve dense predictions, the predicted grasps of our detection model are represented by the 6 channels images with each pixel location representing a rated grasp. To the best of our knowledge, our model is the first neural network that attaches a grasp pose in pixel level. The model achieves 96.5% accuracy which costs 14ms for prediction of a 480×360 resolution RGB image in Cornell Grasp Dataset, and 90.4% robot grasping success rate for unknown objects with a parallel plate gripper in the real environment.


Title: Transferable Active Grasping and Real Embodied Dataset
Abstract: Grasping in cluttered scenes is challenging for robot vision systems, as detection accuracy can be hindered by partial occlusion of objects. We adopt a reinforcement learning (RL) framework and 3D vision architectures to search for feasible viewpoints for grasping by the use of hand-mounted RGB-D cameras. To overcome the disadvantages of photo-realistic environment simulation, we propose a large-scale dataset called Real Embodied Dataset (RED), which includes full-viewpoint real samples on the upper hemisphere with amodal annotation and enables a simulator that has real visual feedback. Based on this dataset, a practical 3-stage transferable active grasping pipeline is developed, that is adaptive to unseen clutter scenes. In our pipeline, we propose a novel mask-guided reward to overcome the sparse reward issue in grasping and ensure category-irrelevant behavior. The grasping pipeline and its possible variants are evaluated with extensive experiments both in simulation and on a real-world UR-5 robotic arm.


Title: PointNet++ Grasping: Learning An End-to-end Spatial Grasp Generation Algorithm from Sparse Point Clouds
Abstract: Grasping for novel objects is important for robot manipulation in unstructured environments. Most of current works require a grasp sampling process to obtain grasp candidates, combined with local feature extractor using deep learning. This pipeline is time-costly, expecially when grasp points are sparse such as at the edge of a bowl.In this paper, we propose an end-to-end approach to directly predict the poses, categories and scores (qualities) of all the grasps. It takes the whole sparse point clouds as the input and requires no sampling or search process. Moreover, to generate training data of multi-object scene, we propose a fast multi-object grasp detection algorithm based on Ferrari Canny metrics. A single-object dataset (79 objects from YCB object set, 23.7k grasps) and a multi-object dataset (20k point clouds with annotations and masks) are generated. A PointNet++ based network combined with multi-mask loss is introduced to deal with different training points. The whole weight size of our network is only about 11.6M, which takes about 102ms for a whole prediction process using a GeForce 840M GPU. Our experiment shows our work get 71.43% success rate and 91.60% completion rate, which performs better than current state-of-art works.


Title: Clear Grasp: 3D Shape Estimation of Transparent Objects for Manipulation
Abstract: Transparent objects are a common part of everyday life, yet they possess unique visual properties that make them incredibly difficult for standard 3D sensors to produce accurate depth estimates for. In many cases, they often appear as noisy or distorted approximations of the surfaces that lie behind them. To address these challenges, we present ClearGrasp - a deep learning approach for estimating accurate 3D geometry of transparent objects from a single RGB-D image for robotic manipulation. Given a single RGB-D image of transparent objects, ClearGrasp uses deep convolutional networks to infer surface normals, masks of transparent surfaces, and occlusion boundaries. It then uses these outputs to refine the initial depth estimates for all transparent surfaces in the scene. To train and test ClearGrasp, we construct a large-scale synthetic dataset of over 50,000 RGB-D images, as well as a real-world test benchmark with 286 RGB-D images of transparent objects and their ground truth geometries. The experiments demonstrate that ClearGrasp is substantially better than monocular depth estimation baselines and is capable of generalizing to real-world images and novel objects. We also demonstrate that ClearGrasp can be applied out-of-the-box to improve grasping algorithms' performance on transparent objects. Code, data, and benchmarks will be released. Supplementary materials: https://sites.google.com/view/cleargrasp.


Title: 6D Object Pose Regression via Supervised Learning on Point Clouds
Abstract: This paper addresses the task of estimating the 6 degrees of freedom pose of a known 3D object from depth information represented by a point cloud. Deep features learned by convolutional neural networks from color information have been the dominant features to be used for inferring object poses, while depth information receives much less attention. However, depth information contains rich geometric information of the object shape, which is important for inferring the object pose. We use depth information represented by point clouds as the input to both deep networks and geometry-based pose refinement and use separate networks for rotation and translation regression. We argue that the axis-angle representation is a suitable rotation representation for deep learning, and use a geodesic loss function for rotation regression. Ablation studies show that these design choices outperform alternatives such as the quaternion representation and L2 loss, or regressing translation and rotation with the same network. Our simple yet effective approach clearly outperforms state-of-the-art methods on the YCB-video dataset.


Title: Self-supervised 6D Object Pose Estimation for Robot Manipulation
Abstract: To teach robots skills, it is crucial to obtain data with supervision. Since annotating real world data is time-consuming and expensive, enabling robots to learn in a self- supervised way is important. In this work, we introduce a robot system for self-supervised 6D object pose estimation. Starting from modules trained in simulation, our system is able to label real world images with accurate 6D object poses for self-supervised learning. In addition, the robot interacts with objects in the environment to change the object configuration by grasping or pushing objects. In this way, our system is able to continuously collect data and improve its pose estimation modules. We show that the self-supervised learning improves object segmentation and 6D pose estimation performance, and consequently enables the system to grasp objects more reliably. A video showing the experiments can be found at https://youtu.be/W1Y0Mmh1Gd8.


Title: Online Trajectory Planning Through Combined Trajectory Optimization and Function Approximation: Application to the Exoskeleton Atalante
Abstract: Autonomous robots require online trajectory planning capability to operate in the real world. Efficient offline trajectory planning methods already exist, but are computationally demanding, preventing their use online. In this paper, we present a novel algorithm called Guided Trajectory Learning that learns a function approximation of solutions computed through trajectory optimization while ensuring accurate and reliable predictions. This function approximation is then used online to generate trajectories. This algorithm is designed to be easy to implement, and practical since it does not require massive computing power. It is readily applicable to any robotics systems and effortless to set up on real hardware since robust control strategies are usually already available. We demonstrate the computational performance of our algorithm on flat-foot walking with the self-balanced exoskeleton Atalante.


Title: Accelerated Robot Learning via Human Brain Signals
Abstract: In reinforcement learning (RL), sparse rewards are a natural way to specify the task to be learned. However, most RL algorithms struggle to learn in this setting since the learning signal is mostly zeros. In contrast, humans are good at assessing and predicting the future consequences of actions and can serve as good reward/policy shapers to accelerate the robot learning process. Previous works have shown that the human brain generates an error-related signal, measurable using electroencephelography (EEG), when the human perceives the task being done erroneously. In this work, we propose a method that uses evaluative feedback obtained from human brain signals measured via scalp EEG to accelerate RL for robotic agents in sparse reward settings. As the robot learns the task, the EEG of a human observer watching the robot attempts is recorded and decoded into noisy error feedback signal. From this feedback, we use supervised learning to obtain a policy that subsequently augments the behavior policy and guides exploration in the early stages of RL. This bootstraps the RL learning process to enable learning from sparse reward. Using a simple robotic navigation task as a test bed, we show that our method achieves a stable obstacle-avoidance policy with high success rate, outperforming learning from sparse rewards only that struggles to achieve obstacle avoidance behavior or fails to advance to the goal.


Title: Simultaneous Estimations of Joint Angle and Torque in Interactions with Environments using EMG
Abstract: We develop a decoding technique that estimates both the position and torque of a joint of the limb in interaction with an environment based on activities of the agonist-antagonist pair of muscles using electromyography in real time. The long short-term memory (LSTM) network is employed as the core processor of the proposed technique that is capable of learning time series of a long-time span with varying time lags. A validation that is conducted on the wrist joint shows that the decoding approach provides an agreement of greater than 95% in kinetics (i.e. torque) estimation and an agreement of greater than 85% in kinematics (i.e. angle) estimation, between the actual and estimated variables, during interactions with an environment. Also demonstrated is the fact that the proposed decoding method inherits the strengths of the LSTM network in terms of the capability of learning EMG signals and the corresponding responses with time dependency.


Title: High-Density Electromyography Based Control of Robotic Devices: On the Execution of Dexterous Manipulation Tasks
Abstract: Electromyography (EMG) based interfaces have been used in various robotics studies ranging from teleoperation and telemanipulation applications to the EMG based control of prosthetic, assistive, or robotic rehabilitation devices. But most of these studies have focused on the decoding of user's motion or on the control of the robotic devices in the execution of simple tasks (e.g., grasping tasks). In this work, we present a learning scheme that employs High Density Electromyography (HD-EMG) sensors to decode a set of dexterous, in-hand manipulation motions (in the object space) based on the myoelectric activations of human forearm and hand muscles. To do that, the subjects were asked to perform roll, pitch, and yaw motions manipulating two different cubes. The first cube was designed to have a center of mass coinciding with the geometric center of the cube, while for the second cube the center of mass was shifted 14 mm to the right (off-centered design). Regarding the acquisition of the myoelectric data, custom HD-EMG electrode arrays were designed and fabricated. Using these arrays, a total of 89 EMG signals were extracted. The object motion decoding was formulated as a regression problem using the Random Forests (RF) technique and the muscle importances were studied using the inherent feature variables importance calculation procedure of the RF. The muscle importance results show that different subjects use different strategies to execute the same motions on same object when the weight is off-centered. Finally, the decoded motions were used to control a five fingered robotic hand in a proof-of-concept application.


Title: A technical framework for human-like motion generation with autonomous anthropomorphic redundant manipulators
Abstract: The need for users' safety and technology accept-ability has incredibly increased with the deployment of co-bots physically interacting with humans in industrial settings, and for people assistance. A well-studied approach to meet these requirements is to ensure human-like robot motions. Classic solutions for anthropomorphic movement generation usually rely on optimization procedures, which build upon hypotheses devised from neuroscientific literature, or capitalize on learning methods. However, these approaches come with limitations, e.g. limited motion variability or the need for high dimensional datasets. In this work, we present a technique to directly embed human upper limb principal motion modes computed through functional analysis in the robot trajectory optimization. We report on the implementation with manipulators with redundant anthropomorphic kinematic architectures - although dissimilar with respect to the human model used for functional mode extraction - via Cartesian impedance control. In our experiments, we show how human trajectories mapped onto a robotic manipulator still exhibit the main characteristics of human-likeness, e.g. low jerk values. We discuss the results with respect to the state of the art, and their implications for advanced human-robot interaction in industrial co-botics and for human assistance.


Title: An Intelligent Spraying System with Deep Learning-based Semantic Segmentation of Fruit Trees in Orchards
Abstract: This study proposes an intelligent spraying system with semantic segmentation of fruit trees in a pear orchard. A fruit tree detection system was developed using the SegNet model, a semantic segmentation structure. The system is trained with images categorized into five distinct classes. The learned deep learning model performed with an accuracy of 83.79%. Further, we fusion depth data from an RGB-D camera to prevent the tree in the background from being detected. To operate the nozzles, each image captured from the camera is separated lengthwise into quarters and mapped to the nozzles. Then, the nozzle was opened when the area of fruit trees in each zone exceeded 20%. Two types of field experiments were performed in a pear orchard to verify the effectiveness of our system. From the results obtained, we can confirm the satisfactory performance of our deep learning-based intelligent spraying system. It is expected that the introduction of this system to actual farms will signicantly reduce the amount of pesticide used and will make the work environment safer for farmers.


Title: SUMMIT: A Simulator for Urban Driving in Massive Mixed Traffic
Abstract: Autonomous driving in an unregulated urban crowd is an outstanding challenge, especially, in the presence of many aggressive, high-speed traffic participants. This paper presents SUMMIT, a high-fidelity simulator that facilitates the development and testing of crowd-driving algorithms. By leveraging the open-source OpenStreetMap map database and a heterogeneous multi-agent motion prediction model developed in our earlier work, SUMMIT simulates dense, unregulated urban traffic for heterogeneous agents at any worldwide locations that OpenStreetMap supports. SUMMIT is built as an extension of CARLA and inherits from it the physics and visual realism for autonomous driving simulation. SUMMIT supports a wide range of applications, including perception, vehicle control and planning, and end-to-end learning. We provide a context-aware planner together with benchmark scenarios and show that SUMMIT generates complex, realistic traffic behaviors in challenging crowd-driving settings.


Title: A Model-Based Reinforcement Learning and Correction Framework for Process Control of Robotic Wire Arc Additive Manufacturing
Abstract: Robotic Wire Arc Additive Manufacturing (WAAM) utilizes a robot arm as a motion system to build 3D metallic objects by depositing weld beads one above the other in a layer by layer fashion. A key part of this approach is the process study and control of Multi-Layer Multi-Bead (MLMB) deposition, which is very sensitive to process parameters and prone to error stacking. Despite its importance, it has been receiving less attention than its single bead counterpart in literature, probably due to the higher experimental overhead and complexity of modeling. To address these challenges, this paper proposes an integrated learning-correction framework, adapted from Model-Based Reinforcement Learning, to iteratively learn the direct effect of process parameters on MLMB print while simultaneously correct for any inter-layer geometric digression such that the final output is still satisfactory. The advantage is that this learning architecture can be used in conjunction with actual parts printing (hence, in-situ study), thus minimizing the required training time and material wastage. The proposed learning framework is implemented on an actual robotic WAAM system and experimentally evaluated.


Title: Towards Practical Multi-Object Manipulation using Relational Reinforcement Learning
Abstract: Learning robotic manipulation tasks using reinforcement learning with sparse rewards is currently impractical due to the outrageous data requirements. Many practical tasks require manipulation of multiple objects, and the complexity of such tasks increases with the number of objects. Learning from a curriculum of increasingly complex tasks appears to be a natural solution, but unfortunately, does not work for many scenarios. We hypothesize that the inability of the state- of-the-art algorithms to effectively utilize a task curriculum stems from the absence of inductive biases for transferring knowledge from simpler to complex tasks. We show that graph-based relational architectures overcome this limitation and enable learning of complex tasks when provided with a simple curriculum of tasks with increasing numbers of objects. We demonstrate the utility of our framework on a simulated block stacking task. Starting from scratch, our agent learns to stack six blocks into a tower. Despite using step-wise sparse rewards, our method is orders of magnitude more data- efficient and outperforms the existing state-of-the-art method that utilizes human demonstrations. Furthermore, the learned policy exhibits zero-shot generalization, successfully stacking blocks into taller towers and previously unseen configurations such as pyramids, without any further training.


Title: Bayesian Learning-Based Adaptive Control for Safety Critical Systems
Abstract: Deep learning has enjoyed much recent success, and applying state-of-the-art model learning methods to controls is an exciting prospect. However, there is a strong reluctance to use these methods on safety-critical systems, which have constraints on safety, stability, and real-time performance. We propose a framework which satisfies these constraints while allowing the use of deep neural networks for learning model uncertainties. Central to our method is the use of Bayesian model learning, which provides an avenue for maintaining appropriate degrees of caution in the face of the unknown. In the proposed approach, we develop an adaptive control framework leveraging the theory of stochastic CLFs (Control Lyapunov Functions) and stochastic CBFs (Control Barrier Functions) along with tractable Bayesian model learning via Gaussian Processes or Bayesian neural networks. Under reasonable assumptions, we guarantee stability and safety while adapting to unknown dynamics with probability 1. We demonstrate this architecture for high-speed terrestrial mobility targeting potential applications in safety-critical high-speed Mars rover missions.


Title: Online LiDAR-SLAM for Legged Robots with Robust Registration and Deep-Learned Loop Closure
Abstract: In this paper, we present a 3D factor-graph LiDAR-SLAM system which incorporates a state-of-the-art deeply learned feature-based loop closure detector to enable a legged robot to localize and map in industrial environments. Point clouds are accumulated using an inertial-kinematic state estimator before being aligned using ICP registration. To close loops we use a loop proposal mechanism which matches individual segments between clouds. We trained a descriptor offline to match these segments. The efficiency of our method comes from carefully designing the network architecture to minimize the number of parameters such that this deep learning method can be deployed in real-time using only the CPU of a legged robot, a major contribution of this work. The set of odometry and loop closure factors are updated using pose graph optimization. Finally we present an efficient risk alignment prediction method which verifies the reliability of the registrations. Experimental results at an industrial facility demonstrated the robustness and flexibility of our system, including autonomous following paths derived from the SLAM map.


Title: Adversarial Skill Networks: Unsupervised Robot Skill Learning from Video
Abstract: Key challenges for the deployment of reinforcement learning (RL) agents in the real world are the discovery, representation and reuse of skills in the absence of a reward function. To this end, we propose a novel approach to learn a task-agnostic skill embedding space from unlabeled multi-view videos. Our method learns a general skill embedding independently from the task context by using an adversarial loss. We combine a metric learning loss, which utilizes temporal video coherence to learn a state representation, with an entropy-regularized adversarial skill-transfer loss. The metric learning loss learns a disentangled representation by attracting simultaneous viewpoints of the same observations and repelling visually similar frames from temporal neighbors. The adversarial skill-transfer loss enhances re-usability of learned skill embeddings over multiple task domains. We show that the learned embedding enables training of continuous control policies to solve novel tasks that require the interpolation of previously seen skills. Our extensive evaluation with both simulation and real world data demonstrates the effectiveness of our method in learning transferable skills from unlabeled interaction videos and composing them for new tasks. Code, pretrained models and dataset are available at http://robotskills.cs.uni-freiburg.de.


Title: Visual Odometry Revisited: What Should Be Learnt?
Abstract: In this work we present a monocular visual odometry (VO) algorithm which leverages geometry-based methods and deep learning. Most existing VO/SLAM systems with superior performance are based on geometry and have to be carefully designed for different application scenarios. Moreover, most monocular systems suffer from scale-drift issue. Some recent deep learning works learn VO in an end-to-end manner but the performance of these deep systems is still not comparable to geometry-based methods. In this work, we revisit the basics of VO and explore the right way for integrating deep learning with epipolar geometry and Perspective-n-Point (PnP) method. Specifically, we train two convolutional neural networks (CNNs) for estimating single-view depths and two-view optical flows as intermediate outputs. With the deep predictions, we design a simple but robust frame-to-frame VO algorithm (DF-VO) which outperforms pure deep learning-based and geometry-based methods. More importantly, our system does not suffer from the scale-drift issue being aided by a scale consistent single-view depth CNN. Extensive experiments on KITTI dataset shows the robustness of our system and a detailed ablation study shows the effect of different factors in our system. Code is available at here: DF-VO.


Title: 3D Scene Geometry-Aware Constraint for Camera Localization with Deep Learning
Abstract: Camera localization is a fundamental and key component of autonomous driving vehicles and mobile robots to localize themselves globally for further environment perception, path planning and motion control. Recently end-to-end approaches based on convolutional neural network have been much studied to achieve or even exceed 3D-geometry based traditional methods. In this work, we propose a compact network for absolute camera pose regression. Inspired from those traditional methods, a 3D scene geometry-aware constraint is also introduced by exploiting all available information including motion, depth and image contents. We add this constraint as a regularization term to our proposed network by defining a pixel-level photometric loss and an image-level structural similarity loss. To benchmark our method, different challenging scenes including indoor and outdoor environment are tested with our proposed approach and state-of-the-arts. And the experimental results demonstrate significant performance improvement of our method on both prediction accuracy and convergence efficiency.


Title: ACDER: Augmented Curiosity-Driven Experience Replay
Abstract: Exploration in environments with sparse feed-back remains a challenging research problem in reinforcement learning (RL). When the RL agent explores the environment randomly, it results in low exploration efficiency, especially in robotic manipulation tasks with high dimensional continuous state and action space. In this paper, we propose a novel method, called Augmented Curiosity-Driven Experience Replay (ACDER), which leverages (i) a new goal-oriented curiosity-driven exploration to encourage the agent to pursue novel and task-relevant states more purposefully and (ii) the dynamic initial states selection as an automatic exploratory curriculum to further improve the sample-efficiency. Our approach complements Hindsight Experience Replay (HER) by introducing a new way to pursue valuable states. Experiments conducted on four challenging robotic manipulation tasks with binary rewards, including Reach, Push, Pick&Place and Multi-step Push. The empirical results show that our proposed method significantly outperforms existing methods in the first three basic tasks and also achieves satisfactory performance in multi-step robotic task learning.


Title: TrueRMA: Learning Fast and Smooth Robot Trajectories with Recursive Midpoint Adaptations in Cartesian Space
Abstract: We present TrueRMA, a data-efficient, model-free method to learn cost-optimized robot trajectories over a wide range of starting points and endpoints. The key idea is to calculate trajectory waypoints in Cartesian space by recursively predicting orthogonal adaptations relative to the midpoints of straight lines. We generate a differentiable path by adding circular blends around the waypoints, calculate the corresponding joint positions with an inverse kinematics solver and calculate a time-optimal parameterization considering velocity and acceleration limits. During training, the trajectory is executed in a physics simulator and costs are assigned according to a user-specified cost function which is not required to be differentiable. Given a starting point and an endpoint as input, a neural network is trained to predict midpoint adaptations that minimize the cost of the resulting trajectory via reinforcement learning. We successfully train a KUKA iiwa robot to keep a ball on a plate while moving between specified points and compare the performance of TrueRMA against two baselines. The results show that our method requires less training data to learn the task while generating shorter and faster trajectories.


Title: Fog Robotics Algorithms for Distributed Motion Planning Using Lambda Serverless Computing
Abstract: For robots using motion planning algorithms such as RRT and RRT*, the computational load can vary by orders of magnitude as the complexity of the local environment changes. To adaptively provide such computation, we propose Fog Robotics algorithms in which cloud-based serverless lambda computing provides parallel computation on demand. To use this parallelism, we propose novel motion planning algorithms that scale effectively with an increasing number of serverless computers. However, given that the allocation of computing is typically bounded by both monetary and time constraints, we show how prior learning can be used to efficiently allocate resources at runtime. We demonstrate the algorithms and application of learned parallel allocation in both simulation and with the Fetch commercial mobile manipulator using Amazon Lambda to complete a sequence of sporadically computationally intensive motion planning tasks.


Title: Posterior Sampling for Anytime Motion Planning on Graphs with Expensive-to-Evaluate Edges
Abstract: Collision checking is a computational bottleneck in motion planning, requiring lazy algorithms that explicitly reason about when to perform this computation. Optimism in the face of collision uncertainty minimizes the number of checks before finding the shortest path. However, this may take a prohibitively long time to compute, with no other feasible paths discovered during this period. For many real-time applications, we instead demand strong anytime performance, defined as minimizing the cumulative lengths of the feasible paths yielded over time. We introduce Posterior Sampling for Motion Planning (PSMP), an anytime lazy motion planning algorithm that leverages learned posteriors on edge collisions to quickly discover an initial feasible path and progressively yield shorter paths. PSMP obtains an expected regret bound of Õ(√(SAT)) and outperforms comparative baselines on a set of 2D and 7D planning problems.


Title: Dynamic Interaction-Aware Scene Understanding for Reinforcement Learning in Autonomous Driving
Abstract: The common pipeline in autonomous driving systems is highly modular and includes a perception component which extracts lists of surrounding objects and passes these lists to a high-level decision component. In this case, leveraging the benefits of deep reinforcement learning for high-level decision making requires special architectures to deal with multiple variable-length sequences of different object types, such as vehicles, lanes or traffic signs. At the same time, the architecture has to be able to cover interactions between traffic participants in order to find the optimal action to be taken. In this work, we propose the novel Deep Scenes architecture, that can learn complex interaction-aware scene representations based on extensions of either 1) Deep Sets or 2) Graph Convolutional Networks. We present the Graph-Q and DeepScene-Q off-policy reinforcement learning algorithms, both outperforming state-ofthe-art methods in evaluations with the publicly available traffic simulator SUMO.


Title: Interacting Vehicle Trajectory Prediction with Convolutional Recurrent Neural Networks
Abstract: Anticipating the future trajectories of surrounding vehicles is a crucial and challenging task in path planning for autonomy. We propose a novel Convolutional Long Short Term Memory (Conv-LSTM) based neural network architecture to predict the future positions of cars using several seconds of historical driving observations. This consists of three modules: 1) Interaction Learning to capture the effect of surrounding cars, 2) Temporal Learning to identify the dependency on past movements and 3) Motion Learning to convert the extracted features from these two modules into future positions. To continuously achieve accurate prediction, we introduce a novel feedback scheme where the current predicted positions of each car are leveraged to update future motion, encapsulating the effect of the surrounding cars. Experiments on two public datasets demonstrate that the proposed methodology can match or outperform the state-of-the-art methods for long-term trajectory prediction.


Title: Navigation Command Matching for Vision-based Autonomous Driving
Abstract: Learning an optimal policy for autonomous driving task to confront with complex environment is a long- studied challenge. Imitative reinforcement learning is accepted as a promising approach to learn a robust driving policy through expert demonstrations and interactions with environments. However, this model utilizes non-smooth rewards, which have a negative impact on matching between navigation commands and trajectory (state-action pairs), and degrade the generalizability of an agent. Smooth rewards are crucial to discriminate actions generated from sub-optimal policy. In this paper, we propose a navigation command matching (NCM) model to address this issue. There are two key components in NCM, 1) a matching measurer produces smooth navigation rewards that measure matching between navigation commands and trajectory; 2) attention-guided agent performs actions given states where salient regions in RGB images (i.e. roadsides, lane markings and dynamic obstacles) are highlighted to amplify their influence on the final model. We obtain navigation rewards and store transitions to replay buffer after an episode, so NCM is able to discriminate actions generated from suboptimal policy. Experiments on CARLA driving benchmark show our proposed NCM outperforms previous state-of-the- art models on various tasks in terms of the percentage of successfully completed episodes. Moreover, our model improves generalizability of the agent and obtains good performance even in unseen scenarios.


Title: GraphRQI: Classifying Driver Behaviors Using Graph Spectrums
Abstract: We present a novel algorithm (GraphRQI) to identify driver behaviors from road-agent trajectories. Our approach assumes that the road-agents exhibit a range of driving traits, such as aggressive or conservative driving. Moreover, these traits affect the trajectories of nearby road-agents as well as the interactions between road-agents. We represent these inter-agent interactions using unweighted and undirected traffic graphs. Our algorithm classifies the driver behavior using a supervised learning algorithm by reducing the computation to the spectral analysis of the traffic graph. Moreover, we present a novel eigenvalue algorithm to compute the spectrum efficiently. We provide theoretical guarantees for the running time complexity of our eigenvalue algorithm and show that it is faster than previous methods by 2 times. We evaluate the classification accuracy of our approach on traffic videos and autonomous driving datasets corresponding to urban traffic. In practice, GraphRQI achieves an accuracy improvement of up to 25% over prior driver behavior classification algorithms. We also use our classification algorithm to predict the future trajectories of road-agents.


Title: Kidnapped Radar: Topological Radar Localisation using Rotationally-Invariant Metric Learning
Abstract: This paper presents a system for robust, large-scale topological localisation using Frequency-Modulated Continuous-Wave scanning radar which extends the state-of-the-art by an efficient, learning-based approach to handle radar data for localisation. We learn a metric space for embedding polar radar scans using CNN and NetVLAD architectures traditionally applied to the visual domain. However, we tailor the feature extraction for more suitability to the polar nature of radar scan formation using cylindrical convolutions, anti-aliasing blurring, and azimuth-wise max-pooling; all in order to bolster the rotational invariance. The enforced metric space is then used to encode a reference trajectory, serving as a map, which is queried for nearest neighbour for recognition of places at run-time. We demonstrate the performance of our topological localisation system over the course of many repeat forays using the largest radar-focused mobile autonomy dataset released to date, totalling 280 km of urban driving, a small portion of which we also use to learn the weights of the modified architecture. As this work represents a novel application for radar, we analyse the utility of the proposed method via a comprehensive set of metrics which provide insight into the efficacy when used in a realistic system, showing improved performance over the root architecture even in the face of random rotational perturbation.


Title: Global visual localization in LiDAR-maps through shared 2D-3D embedding space
Abstract: Global localization is an important and widely studied problem for many robotic applications. Place recognition approaches can be exploited to solve this task, e.g., in the autonomous driving field. While most vision-based approaches match an image w.r.t. an image database, global visual localization within LiDAR-maps remains fairly unexplored, even though the path toward high definition 3D maps, produced mainly from LiDARs, is clear. In this work we leverage Deep Neural Network (DNN) approaches to create a shared embedding space between images and LiDAR-maps, allowing for image to 3D-LiDAR place recognition. We trained a 2D and a 3D DNN that create embeddings, respectively from images and from point clouds, that are close to each other whether they refer to the same place. An extensive experimental activity is presented to assess the effectiveness of the approach w.r.t. different learning paradigms, network architectures, and loss functions. All the evaluations have been performed using the Oxford Robotcar Dataset, which encompasses a wide range of weather and light conditions.


Title: Unsupervised Learning Methods for Visual Place Recognition in Discretely and Continuously Changing Environments
Abstract: Visual place recognition in changing environments is the problem of finding matchings between two sets of observations, a query set and a reference set, despite severe appearance changes. Recently, image comparison using CNNbased descriptors showed very promising results. However, the experiments in the literature typically assume a single distinctive condition within each set (e.g., reference images are captured at daytime and the query sequence is at night). In this paper, we will demonstrate that as soon as the conditions change within one set (e.g., reference is daytime and now the query is a traversal daytime-dusk-night-dawn), different places under the same condition can suddenly look more similar than same places under different conditions. As a consequence, state-of-the-art approaches like CNN-based descriptors fail. This paper discusses this practically very important problem of in-sequence condition changes and defines a hierarchy of problem setups from (1) no in-sequence changes, (2) discrete in-sequence changes, to (3) continuous in-sequence changes. We will experimentally evaluate the effect of in-sequence condition changes on two state-of-the-art CNN-descriptors and investigate unsupervised methods to improve their performance. This includes an evaluation of the importance of statistical normalization (standardization) of descriptors, which is often omitted in existing approaches but can considerably improve results for problems up to discrete in-sequence changes. To address the practical most relevant setup of continuous changes, we investigate the application of unsupervised learning methods using two PCA-based approaches from the literature and propose a novel clustering-based extension of the statistical normalization. We experimentally demonstrate that these approaches can significantly improve place recognition performance in case of continuous in-sequence condition changes. Matlab implementations of the presented approaches are available online: www.tu-chemnitz.de/etit/proaut/cont_changing_envs.


Title: Localising Faster: Efficient and precise lidar-based robot localisation in large-scale environments
Abstract: This paper proposes a novel approach for global localisation of mobile robots in large-scale environments. Our method leverages learning-based localisation and filtering-based localisation, to localise the robot efficiently and precisely through seeding Monte Carlo Localisation (MCL) with a deeplearned distribution. In particular, a fast localisation system rapidly estimates the 6-DOF pose through a deep-probabilistic model (Gaussian Process Regression with a deep kernel), then a precise recursive estimator refines the estimated robot pose according to the geometric alignment. More importantly, the Gaussian method (i.e. deep probabilistic localisation) and nonGaussian method (i.e. MCL) can be integrated naturally via importance sampling. Consequently, the two systems can be integrated seamlessly and mutually benefit from each other. To verify the proposed framework, we provide a case study in large-scale localisation with a 3D lidar sensor. Our experiments on the Michigan NCLT long-term dataset show that the proposed method is able to localise the robot in 1.94 s on average (median of 0.8 s) with precision 0.75 m in a largescale environment of approximately 0.5 km2.


Title: A Linearly Constrained Nonparametric Framework for Imitation Learning
Abstract: In recent years, a myriad of advanced results have been reported in the community of imitation learning, ranging from parametric to non-parametric, probabilistic to non-probabilistic and Bayesian to frequentist approaches. Meanwhile, ample applications (e.g., grasping tasks and humanrobot collaborations) further show the applicability of imitation learning in a wide range of domains. While numerous literature is dedicated to the learning of human skills in unconstrained environments, the problem of learning constrained motor skills, however, has not received equal attention. In fact, constrained skills exist widely in robotic systems. For instance, when a robot is demanded to write letters on a board, its end-effector trajectory must comply with the plane constraint from the board. In this paper, we propose linearly constrained kernelized movement primitives (LC-KMP) to tackle the problem of imitation learning with linear constraints. Specifically, we propose to exploit the probabilistic properties of multiple demonstrations, and subsequently incorporate them into a linearly constrained optimization problem, which finally leads to a non-parametric solution. In addition, a connection between our framework and the classical model predictive control is provided. Several examples including simulated writing and locomotion tasks are presented to show the effectiveness of our framework.


Title: An Energy-based Approach to Ensure the Stability of Learned Dynamical Systems
Abstract: Non-linear dynamical systems represent a compact, flexible, and robust tool for reactive motion generation. The effectiveness of dynamical systems relies on their ability to accurately represent stable motions. Several approaches have been proposed to learn stable and accurate motions from demonstration. Some approaches work by separating accuracy and stability into two learning problems, which increases the number of open parameters and the overall training time. Alternative solutions exploit single-step learning but restrict the applicability to one regression technique. This paper presents a single-step approach to learn stable and accurate motions that work with any regression technique. The approach makes energy considerations on the learned dynamics to stabilize the system at run-time while introducing small deviations from the demonstrated motion. Since the initial value of the energy injected into the system affects the reproduction accuracy, it is estimated from training data using an efficient procedure. Experiments on a real robot and a comparison on a public benchmark shows the effectiveness of the proposed approach.


Title: IRIS: Implicit Reinforcement without Interaction at Scale for Learning Control from Offline Robot Manipulation Data
Abstract: Learning from offline task demonstrations is a problem of great interest in robotics. For simple short-horizon manipulation tasks with modest variation in task instances, offline learning from a small set of demonstrations can produce controllers that successfully solve the task. However, leveraging a fixed batch of data can be problematic for larger datasets and longer-horizon tasks with greater variations. The data can exhibit substantial diversity and consist of suboptimal solution approaches. In this paper, we propose Implicit Reinforcement without Interaction at Scale (IRIS), a novel framework for learning from large-scale demonstration datasets. IRIS factorizes the control problem into a goal-conditioned low-level controller that imitates short demonstration sequences and a high-level goal selection mechanism that sets goals for the low-level and selectively combines parts of suboptimal solutions leading to more successful task completions. We evaluate IRIS across three datasets, including the RoboTurk Cans dataset collected by humans via crowdsourcing, and show that performant policies can be learned from purely offline learning. Additional results at https://sites.google.com/stanford.edu/iris/.


Title: Geometry-aware Dynamic Movement Primitives
Abstract: In many robot control problems, factors such as stiffness and damping matrices and manipulability ellipsoids are naturally represented as symmetric positive definite (SPD) matrices, which capture the specific geometric characteristics of those factors. Typical learned skill models such as dynamic movement primitives (DMPs) can not, however, be directly employed with quantities expressed as SPD matrices as they are limited to data in Euclidean space. In this paper, we propose a novel and mathematically principled framework that uses Riemannian metrics to reformulate DMPs such that the resulting formulation can operate with SPD data in the SPD manifold. Evaluation of the approach demonstrates that beneficial properties of DMPs such as change of the goal during operation apply also to the proposed formulation.


Title: Learning a Pile Loading Controller from Demonstrations
Abstract: This work introduces a learning-based pile loading controller for autonomous robotic wheel loaders. Controller parameters are learnt from a small number of demonstrations for which low level sensor (boom angle, bucket angle and hydrostatic driving pressure), egocentric video frames and control signals are recorded. Application specific deep visual features are learnt from demonstrations using a Siamese network architecture and a combination of cross-entropy and contrastive loss. The controller is based on a Random Forest (RF) regressor that provides robustness against changes in field conditions (loading distance, soil type, weather and illumination). The controller is deployed to a real autonomous robotic wheel loader and it outperforms prior art with a clear margin.


Title: Learning Navigation Costs from Demonstration in Partially Observable Environments
Abstract: This paper focuses on inverse reinforcement learning (IRL) to enable safe and efficient autonomous navigation in unknown partially observable environments. The objective is to infer a cost function that explains expert-demonstrated navigation behavior while relying only on the observations and state-control trajectory used by the expert. We develop a cost function representation composed of two parts: a probabilistic occupancy encoder, with recurrent dependence on the observation sequence, and a cost encoder, defined over the occupancy features. The representation parameters are optimized by differentiating the error between demonstrated controls and a control policy computed from the cost encoder. Such differentiation is typically computed by dynamic programming through the value function over the whole state space. We observe that this is inefficient in large partially observable environments because most states are unexplored. Instead, we rely on a closed-form subgradient of the cost-to-go obtained only over a subset of promising states via an efficient motion-planning algorithm such as A* or RRT. Our experiments show that our model exceeds the accuracy of baseline IRL algorithms in robot navigation tasks, while substantially improving the efficiency of training and test-time inference.


Title: Stable Tool-Use with Flexible Musculoskeletal Hands by Learning the Predictive Model of Sensor State Transition
Abstract: The flexible under-actuated musculoskeletal hand is superior in its adaptability and impact resistance. On the other hand, since the relationship between sensors and actuators cannot be uniquely determined, almost all its controls are based on feedforward controls. When grasping and using a tool, the contact state of the hand gradually changes due to the inertia of the tool or impact of action, and the initial contact state is hardly kept. In this study, we propose a system that trains the predictive network of sensor state transition using the actual robot sensor information, and keeps the initial contact state by a feedback control using the network. We conduct experiments of hammer hitting, vacuuming, and brooming, and verify the effectiveness of this study.


Title: Learning to Transfer Dynamic Models of Underactuated Soft Robotic Hands
Abstract: Transfer learning is a popular approach to bypassing data limitations in one domain by leveraging data from another domain. This is especially useful in robotics, as it allows practitioners to reduce data collection with physical robots, which can be time-consuming and cause wear and tear. The most common way of doing this with neural networks is to take an existing neural network, and simply train it more with new data. However, we show that in some situations this can lead to significantly worse performance than simply using the transferred model without adaptation. We find that a major cause of these problems is that models trained on small amounts of data can have chaotic or divergent behavior in some regions. We derive an upper bound on the Lyapunov exponent of a trained transition model, and demonstrate two approaches that make use of this insight. Both show significant improvement over traditional fine-tuning. Experiments performed on real underactuated soft robotic hands clearly demonstrate the capability to transfer a dynamic model from one hand to another.


Title: Periodic movement learning in a soft-robotic arm*
Abstract: In this paper we introduce a novel technique that aims to dynamically control a modular bio-inspired soft-robotic arm in order to perform cyclic rhythmic patterns. Oscillatory signals are produced at the actuator's level by a central pattern generator (CPG), resulting in the generation of a periodic motion by the robot's end-effector. The proposed controller is based on a model-free neurodynamic scheme and is assigned with the task of training a policy that computes the parameters of the CPG model which generates a trajectory with desired features. The proposed methodology is first evaluated with a simulation model, which successfully reproduces the trained targets. Then experiments are also conducted using the real robot. Both procedures validate the efficiency of the learning architecture to successfully complete these tasks.


Title: Learning Precise 3D Manipulation from Multiple Uncalibrated Cameras
Abstract: In this work, we present an effective multi-view approach to closed-loop end-to-end learning of precise manipulation tasks that are 3D in nature. Our method learns to accomplish these tasks using multiple statically placed but uncalibrated RGB camera views without building an explicit 3D representation such as a pointcloud or voxel grid. This multi-camera approach achieves superior task performance on difficult stacking and insertion tasks compared to single-view baselines. Single view robotic agents struggle from occlusion and challenges in estimating relative poses between points of interest. While full 3D scene representations (voxels or pointclouds) are obtainable from registered output of multiple depth sensors, several challenges complicate operating off such explicit 3D representations. These challenges include imperfect camera calibration, poor depth maps due to object properties such as reflective surfaces, and slower inference speeds over 3D representations compared to 2D images. Our use of static but uncalibrated cameras does not require camera-robot or camera-camera calibration making the proposed approach easy to setup and our use of sensor dropout during training makes it resilient to the loss of camera-views after deployment.


Title: Dynamic Cloth Manipulation with Deep Reinforcement Learning
Abstract: In this paper we present a Deep Reinforcement Learning approach to solve dynamic cloth manipulation tasks. Differing from the case of rigid objects, we stress that the followed trajectory (including speed and acceleration) has a decisive influence on the final state of cloth, which can greatly vary even if the positions reached by the grasped points are the same. We explore how goal positions for non-grasped points can be attained through learning adequate trajectories for the grasped points. Our approach uses few demonstrations to improve control policy learning, and a sparse reward approach to avoid engineering complex reward functions. Since perception of textiles is challenging, we also study different state representations to assess the minimum observation space required for learning to succeed. Finally, we compare different combinations of control policy encodings, demonstrations, and sparse reward learning techniques, and show that our proposed approach can learn dynamic cloth manipulation in an efficient way, i.e., using a reduced observation space, a few demonstrations, and a sparse reward.


Title: Learning to combine primitive skills: A step towards versatile robotic manipulation §
Abstract: Manipulation tasks such as preparing a meal or assembling furniture remain highly challenging for robotics and vision. Traditional task and motion planning (TAMP) methods can solve complex tasks but require full state observability and are not adapted to dynamic scene changes. Recent learning methods can operate directly on visual inputs but typically require many demonstrations and/or task-specific reward engineering. In this work we aim to overcome previous limitations and propose a reinforcement learning (RL) approach to task planning that learns to combine primitive skills. First, compared to previous learning methods, our approach requires neither intermediate rewards nor complete task demonstrations during training. Second, we demonstrate the versatility of our vision-based task planning in challenging settings with temporary occlusions and dynamic scene changes. Third, we propose an efficient training of basic skills from few synthetic demonstrations by exploring recent CNN architectures and data augmentation. Notably, while all of our policies are learned on visual inputs in simulated environments, we demonstrate the successful transfer and high success rates when applying such policies to manipulation tasks on a real UR5 robotic arm.


Title: Learning Affordance Space in Physical World for Vision-based Robotic Object Manipulation
Abstract: What is a proper representation for objects in manipulation? What would human try to perceive when manipulating a new object in a new environment? In fact, instead of focusing on the texture and illumination, human can infer the "affordance" [36] of the objects from vision. Here "affordance" describes the object's intrinsic property that affords a particular type of manipulation. In this work, we investigate whether such affordance can be learned by a deep neural network. In particular, we propose an Affordance Space Perception Network (ASPN) that takes an image as input and outputs an affordance map. Different from existing works that infer the pixel-wise probability affordance map in image space, our affordance is defined in the real world space, thus eliminates the need of hand-eye calibration. In addition, we extend the representation ability of affordance by defining it in a 3D affordance space and propose a novel training strategy to improve the performance. Trained purely with simulation data, ASPN can achieve significant performance in the real world. It is a task-agnostic framework and can handle different objects, scenes and viewpoints. Extensive real-world experiments demonstrate the accuracy and robustness of our approach. We achieve the success rates of 94.2% for singular-object pushing and 92.4% for multiple-object pushing. We also achieve the success rates of 97.2% for singular-object grasping and 95.4% for multiple-object grasping, which outperform current state-of-the-art methods.


Title: Arm-hand motion-force coordination for physical interactions with non-flat surfaces using dynamical systems: Toward compliant robotic massage
Abstract: Many manipulation tasks require coordinated motions for arm and fingers. Complexity increases when the task requires to control for the force at contact against a non-flat surface; This becomes even more challenging when this contact is done on a human. All these challenges are regrouped when one, for instance, massages a human limb. When massaging, the robotic arm is required to continuously adapt its orientation and distance to the limb while the robot fingers exert desired patterns of forces and motion on the skin surface. To address these challenges, we adopt a Dynamical System (DS) approach that offers a unified motion-force control approach and enables to easily coordinate multiple degrees of freedom. As each human limb may slightly differ, we learn a model of the surface using support vector regression (SVR) which enable us to obtain a distance-to-surface mapping. The gradient of this mapping, along with the DS, generates the desired motions for the interaction with the surface. A DS-based impedance control for the robotic fingers allows to control separately for force along the normal direction of the surface while moving in the tangential plane. We validate our approach using the KUKA IIWA robotic arm and Allegro robotic hand for massaging a mannequin arm covered with a skin-like material. We show that our approach allows for 1) reactive motion planning to reach for an unknown surface, 2) following desired motion patterns on the surface, and 3) exerting desired interaction forces profiles. Our results show the effectiveness of our approach; especially the robustness toward uncertainties for shape and the given location of the surface.


Title: Differentiable Mapping Networks: Learning Structured Map Representations for Sparse Visual Localization
Abstract: Mapping and localization, preferably from a small number of observations, are fundamental tasks in robotics. We address these tasks by combining spatial structure (differentiable mapping) and end-to-end learning in a novel neural network architecture: the Differentiable Mapping Network (DMN). The DMN constructs a spatially structured view-embedding map and uses it for subsequent visual localization with a particle filter. Since the DMN architecture is end-to-end differentiable, we can jointly learn the map representation and localization using gradient descent. We apply the DMN to sparse visual localization, where a robot needs to localize in a new environment with respect to a small number of images from known viewpoints. We evaluate the DMN using simulated environments and a challenging real-world Street View dataset. We find that the DMN learns effective map representations for visual localization. The benefit of spatial structure increases with larger environments, more viewpoints for mapping, and when training data is scarce. Project website: https://sites.google.com/view/differentiable-mapping.


Title: Attentive Task-Net: Self Supervised Task-Attention Network for Imitation Learning using Video Demonstration
Abstract: This paper proposes an end-to-end self-supervised feature representation network named Attentive Task-Net or AT-Net for video-based task imitation. The proposed AT-Net incorporates a novel multi-level spatial attention module to highlight spatial features corresponding to the intended task demonstrated by the expert. The neural connections in AT-Net ensure the relevant information in the demonstration is amplified and the irrelevant information is suppressed while learning task-specific feature embeddings. This is achieved by a weighted combination of multiple intermediate feature maps of the input image at different stages of the CNN pipeline. The weights of the combination are given by the compatibility scores, predicted by the attention module for respective feature maps. The AT-Net is trained using a metric learning loss which aims to decrease the distance between the feature representations of concurrent frames from multiple view points and increase the distance between temporally consecutive frames. The AT-Net features are then used to formulate a reinforcement learning problem for task imitation. Through experiments on the publicly available Multi-view pouring dataset, it is demonstrated that the output of the attention module highlights the task-specific objects while suppressing the rest of the background. The efficacy of the proposed method is further validated by qualitative and quantitative comparison with a state-of-the-art technique along with intensive ablation studies. The proposed method is implemented to imitate a pouring task where an RL agent is learned with the AT-Net in Gazebo simulator. Our findings show that the AT-Net achieves 6.5% decrease in alignment error along with a reduction in the number of training iterations by almost 155k over the state-of-the-art while satisfactorily imitating the intended task.


Title: OpenLORIS-Object: A Robotic Vision Dataset and Benchmark for Lifelong Deep Learning
Abstract: The recent breakthroughs in computer vision have benefited from the availability of large representative datasets (e.g. ImageNet and COCO) for training. Yet, robotic vision poses unique challenges for applying visual algorithms developed from these standard computer vision datasets due to their implicit assumption over non-varying distributions for a fixed set of tasks. Fully retraining models each time a new task becomes available is infeasible due to computational, storage and sometimes privacy issues, while naïve incremental strategies have been shown to suffer from catastrophic forgetting. It is crucial for the robots to operate continuously under open-set and detrimental conditions with adaptive visual perceptual systems, where lifelong learning is a fundamental capability. However, very few datasets and benchmarks are available to evaluate and compare emerging techniques. To fill this gap, we provide a new lifelong robotic vision dataset ("OpenLORIS-Object") collected via RGB-D cameras. The dataset embeds the challenges faced by a robot in the real-life application and provides new benchmarks for validating lifelong object recognition algorithms. Moreover, we have provided a testbed of 9 state-of-the-art lifelong learning algorithms. Each of them involves 48 tasks with 4 evaluation metrics over the OpenLORIS-Object dataset. The results demonstrate that the object recognition task in the ever-changing difficulty environments is far from being solved and the bottlenecks are at the forward/backward transfer designs. Our dataset and benchmark are publicly available at https://lifelong-robotic-vision.github.io/dataset/object.


Title: Geometric Pretraining for Monocular Depth Estimation
Abstract: ImageNet-pretrained networks have been widely used in transfer learning for monocular depth estimation. These pretrained networks are trained with classification losses for which only semantic information is exploited while spatial information is ignored. However, both semantic and spatial information is important for per-pixel depth estimation. In this paper, we design a novel self-supervised geometric pretraining task that is tailored for monocular depth estimation using uncalibrated videos. The designed task decouples the structure information from input videos by a simple yet effective conditional autoencoder-decoder structure. Using almost unlimited videos from the internet, networks are pretrained to capture a variety of structures of the scene and can be easily transferred to depth estimation tasks using calibrated images. Extensive experiments are used to demonstrate that the proposed geometric-pretrained networks perform better than ImageNet-pretrained networks in terms of accuracy, few-shot learning and generalization ability. Using existing learning methods, geometric-transferred networks achieve new state-of-the-art results by a large margin. The pretrained networks will be open source soon1 .


Title: Learning a Control Policy for Fall Prevention on an Assistive Walking Device
Abstract: Fall prevention is one of the most important components in senior care. We present a technique to augment an assistive walking device with the ability to prevent falls. Given an existing walking device, our method develops a fall predictor and a recovery policy by utilizing the onboard sensors and actuators. The key component of our method is a robust human walking policy that models realistic human gait under a moderate level of perturbations. We use this human walking policy to provide training data for the fall predictor, as well as to teach the recovery policy how to best modify the person's gait when a fall is imminent. Our evaluation shows that the human walking policy generates walking sequences similar to those reported in biomechanics literature. Our experiments in simulation show that the augmented assistive device can indeed help recover balance from a variety of external perturbations. We also provide a quantitative method to evaluate the design choices for an assistive device.


Title: Motion Reasoning for Goal-Based Imitation Learning
Abstract: We address goal-based imitation learning, where the aim is to output the symbolic goal from a third-person video demonstration. This enables the robot to plan for execution and reproduce the same goal in a completely different environment. The key challenge is that the goal of a video demonstration is often ambiguous at the level of semantic actions. The human demonstrators might unintentionally achieve certain subgoals in the demonstrations with their actions. Our main contribution is to propose a motion reasoning framework that combines task and motion planning to disambiguate the true intention of the demonstrator in the video demonstration. This allows us to recognize the goals that cannot be disambiguated by previous action-based approaches. We evaluate our approach on a new dataset of 96 video demonstrations in a mockup kitchen environment. We show that our motion reasoning plays an important role in recognizing the actual goal of the demonstrator and improves the success rate by over 20%. We further show that by using the automatically inferred goal from the video demonstration, our robot is able to reproduce the same task in a real kitchen environment.


Title: Flexible online adaptation of learning strategy using EEG-based reinforcement signals in real-world robotic applications
Abstract: Flexible adaptation of learning strategy depending on online changes of the user's current intents have a high relevance in human-robot collaboration. In our previous study, we proposed an intrinsic interactive reinforcement learning approach for human-robot interaction, in which a robot learns his/her action strategy based on intrinsic human feedback that is generated in the human's brain as neural signature of the human's implicit evaluation of the robot's actions. Our approach has an inherent property that allows robots to adapt their behavior depending on online changes of the human's current intents. Such flexible adaptation is possible, since robot learning is updated in real time by human's online feedback. In this paper, the adaptivity of robot learning is tested on eight subjects who change their current control strategy by adding a new gesture to the previous used gestures. This paper evaluates the learning progress by analyzing learning phases (before and after adding a new gesture for control). The results show that the robot can adapt the previously learned policy depending on online changes of the user's intents. Especially, learning progress is interrelated with the classification performance of electroencephalograms (EEGs), which are used to measure the human's implicit evaluation of the robot's actions.


Title: Towards Safe Human-Robot Collaboration Using Deep Reinforcement Learning
Abstract: Safety in Human-Robot Collaboration (HRC) is a bottleneck to HRC-productivity in industry. With robots being the main source of hazards, safety engineers use over-emphasized safety measures, and carry out lengthy and expensive risk assessment processes on each HRC-layout reconfiguration. Recent advances in deep Reinforcement Learning (RL) offer solutions to add intelligence and comprehensibility of the environment to robots. In this paper, we propose a framework that uses deep RL as an enabling technology to enhance intelligence and safety of the robots in HRC scenarios and, thus, reduce hazards incurred by the robots. The framework offers a systematic methodology to encode the task and safety requirements and context of applicability into RL settings. The framework also considers core components, such as behavior explainer and verifier, which aim for transferring learned behaviors from research labs to industry. In the evaluations, the proposed framework shows the capability of deep RL agents learning collision-free point-to-point motion on different robots inside simulation, as shown in the supplementary video.


Title: Deep compositional robotic planners that follow natural language commands
Abstract: We demonstrate how a sampling-based robotic planner can be augmented to learn to understand a sequence of natural language commands in a continuous configuration space to move and manipulate objects. Our approach combines a deep network structured according to the parse of a complex command that includes objects, verbs, spatial relations, and attributes, with a sampling-based planner, RRT. A recurrent hierarchical deep network controls how the planner explores the environment, determines when a planned path is likely to achieve a goal, and estimates the confidence of each move to trade off exploitation and exploration between the network and the planner. Planners are designed to have near-optimal behavior when information about the task is missing, while networks learn to exploit observations which are available from the environment, making the two naturally complementary. Combining the two enables generalization to new maps, new kinds of obstacles, and more complex sentences that do not occur in the training set. Little data is required to train the model despite it jointly acquiring a CNN that extracts features from the environment as it learns the meanings of words. The model provides a level of interpretability through the use of attention maps allowing users to see its reasoning steps despite being an end-to-end model. This end-to-end model allows robots to learn to follow natural language commands in challenging continuous environments.


Title: Learning User Preferences from Corrections on State Lattices
Abstract: Enabling a broader range of users to efficiently deploy autonomous mobile robots requires intuitive frameworks for specifying a robot's task and behaviour. We present a novel approach using learning from corrections (LfC), where a user is iteratively presented with a solution to a motion planning problem. Users might have preferences about parts of a robot's environment that are suitable for robot traffic or that should be avoided as well as preferences on the control actions a robot can take. The robot is initially unaware of these preferences; thus, we ask the user to provide a correction to the presented path. We assume that the user evaluates paths based on environment and motion features. From a sequence of corrections we learn weights for these features, which are then considered by the motion planner, resulting in future paths that better fit the user's preferences. We prove completeness of our algorithm and demonstrate its performance in simulations. Thereby, we show that the learned preferences yield good results not only for a set of training tasks but also for test tasks, as well as for different types of user behaviour.


Title: Push and Drag: An Active Obstacle Separation Method for Fruit Harvesting Robots
Abstract: Selectively picking a target fruit surrounded by obstacles is one of the major challenges for fruit harvesting robots. Different from traditional obstacle avoidance methods, this paper presents an active obstacle separation strategy that combines push and drag motions. The separation motion and trajectory are generated based on the 3D visual perception of the obstacle information around the target. A linear push is used to clear the obstacles from the area below the target, while a zig-zag push that contains several linear motions is proposed to push aside more dense obstacles. The zig-zag push can generate multi-directional pushes and the side-to-side motion can break the static contact force between the target and obstacles, thus helping the gripper to receive a target in more complex situations. Moreover, we propose a novel drag operation to address the issue of mis-capturing obstacles located above the target, in which the gripper drags the target to a place with fewer obstacles and then pushes back to move the obstacles aside for further detachment. Furthermore, an image processing pipeline consisting of color thresholding, object detection using deep learning and point cloud operation, is developed to implement the proposed method on a harvesting robot. Field tests show that the proposed method can improve the picking performance substantially. This method helps to enable complex clusters of fruits to be harvested with a higher success rate than conventional methods.


Title: Learning Camera Miscalibration Detection
Abstract: Self-diagnosis and self-repair are some of the key challenges in deploying robotic platforms for long-term real-world applications. One of the issues that can occur to a robot is miscalibration of its sensors due to aging, environmental transients, or external disturbances. Precise calibration lies at the core of a variety of applications, due to the need to accurately perceive the world. However, while a lot of work has focused on calibrating the sensors, not much has been done towards identifying when a sensor needs to be recalibrated. This paper focuses on a data-driven approach to learn the detection of miscalibration in vision sensors, specifically RGB cameras. Our contributions include a proposed miscalibration metric for RGB cameras and a novel semi-synthetic dataset generation pipeline based on this metric. Additionally, by training a deep convolutional neural network, we demonstrate the effectiveness of our pipeline to identify whether a recalibration of the camera's intrinsic parameters is required or not. The code is available at http://github.com/ethz-asl/camera_miscalib_detection.


Title: Planning, Learning and Reasoning Framework for Robot Truck Unloading
Abstract: We consider the task of autonomously unloading boxes from trucks using an industrial manipulator robot. There are multiple challenges that arise: (1) real-time motion planning for a complex robotic system carrying two articulated mechanisms, an arm and a scooper, (2) decision-making in terms of what action to execute next given imperfect information about boxes such as their masses, (3) accounting for the sequential nature of the problem where current actions affect future state of the boxes, and (4) real-time execution that interleaves high-level decision-making with lower level motion planning. In this work, we propose a planning, learning, and reasoning framework to tackle these challenges, and describe its components including motion planning, belief space planning for offline learning, online decision-making based on offline learning, and an execution module to combine decision-making with motion planning. We analyze the performance of the framework on real-world scenarios. In particular, motion planning and execution modules are evaluated in simulation and on a real robot, while offline learning and online decision-making are evaluated in simulated real-world scenarios.


Title: Local Policy Optimization for Trajectory-Centric Reinforcement Learning
Abstract: The goal of this paper is to present a method for simultaneous trajectory and local stabilizing policy optimization to generate local policies for trajectory-centric model-based reinforcement learning (MBRL). This is motivated by the fact that global policy optimization for non-linear systems could be a very challenging problem both algorithmically and numerically. However, a lot of robotic manipulation tasks are trajectory-centric, and thus do not require a global model or policy. Due to inaccuracies in the learned model estimates, an open-loop trajectory optimization process mostly results in very poor performance when used on the real system. Motivated by these problems, we try to formulate the problem of trajectory optimization and local policy synthesis as a single optimization problem. It is then solved simultaneously as an instance of nonlinear programming. We provide some results for analysis as well as achieved performance of the proposed technique under some simplifying assumptions.


Title: On-board Deep-learning-based Unmanned Aerial Vehicle Fault Cause Detection and Identification
Abstract: With the increase in use of Unmanned Aerial Vehicles (UAVs)/drones, it is important to detect and identify causes of failure in real time for proper recovery from a potential crash-like scenario or post incident forensics analysis. The cause of crash could be either a fault in the sensor/actuator system, a physical damage/attack, or a cyber attack on the drone's software. In this paper, we propose novel architectures based on deep Convolutional and Long Short-Term Memory Neural Networks (CNNs and LSTMs) to detect (via Autoencoder) and classify drone mis-operations based on real-time sensor data. The proposed architectures are able to learn high-level features automatically from the raw sensor data and learn the spatial and temporal dynamics in the sensor data. We validate the proposed deep-learning architectures via simulations and realworld experiments on a drone. Empirical results show that our solution is able to detect (with over 90% accuracy) and classify various types of drone mis-operations (with about 99% accuracy (simulation data) and upto 85% accuracy (experimental data)).


Title: Learning Resilient Behaviors for Navigation Under Uncertainty
Abstract: Deep reinforcement learning has great potential to acquire complex, adaptive behaviors for autonomous agents automatically. However, the underlying neural network polices have not been widely deployed in real-world applications, especially in these safety-critical tasks (e.g., autonomous driving). One of the reasons is that the learned policy cannot perform flexible and resilient behaviors as traditional methods to adapt to diverse environments. In this paper, we consider the problem that a mobile robot learns adaptive and resilient behaviors for navigating in unseen uncertain environments while avoiding collisions. We present a novel approach for uncertainty-aware navigation by introducing an uncertainty-aware predictor to model the environmental uncertainty, and we propose a novel uncertainty-aware navigation network to learn resilient behaviors in the prior unknown environments. To train the proposed uncertainty-aware network more stably and efficiently, we present the temperature decay training paradigm, which balances exploration and exploitation during the training process. Our experimental evaluation demonstrates that our approach can learn resilient behaviors in diverse environments and generate adaptive trajectories according to environmental uncertainties.


Title: Game theoretic decision making based on real sensor data for autonomous vehicles’ maneuvers in high traffic
Abstract: This paper presents an approach for implementing game theoretic decision making in combination with realistic sensory data input so as to allow an autonomous vehicle to perform maneuvers, such as lane change or merge in high traffic scenarios. The main novelty of this work, is the use of realistic sensory data input to obtain the observations as input of an iterative multi-player game in a realistic simulator. The game model allows to anticipate reactions of additional vehicles to the movements of the ego-vehicle without using any specific coordination or vehicle-to-vehicle communication. Moreover, direct information from the simulator, such as position or speed of the vehicles is also avoided.The solution of the game is based on cognitive hierarchy reasoning and it uses Monte Carlo reinforcement learning in order to obtain a near-optimal policy towards a specific goal. Moreover, the game proposed is capable of solving different situations using a single policy. The system has been successfully tested and compared with previous techniques using a realistic hybrid simulator, where the ego-vehicle and its sensors are simulated on a 3D simulator and the additional vehicles' behavior is obtained from a traffic simulator.


Title: Driving in Dense Traffic with Model-Free Reinforcement Learning
Abstract: Traditional planning and control methods could fail to find a feasible trajectory for an autonomous vehicle to execute amongst dense traffic on roads. This is because the obstacle-free volume in spacetime is very small in these scenarios for the vehicle to drive through. However, that does not mean the task is infeasible since human drivers are known to be able to drive amongst dense traffic by leveraging the cooperativeness of other drivers to open a gap. The traditional methods fail to take into account the fact that the actions taken by an agent affect the behaviour of other vehicles on the road. In this work, we rely on the ability of deep reinforcement learning to implicitly model such interactions and learn a continuous control policy over the action space of an autonomous vehicle. The application we consider requires our agent to negotiate and open a gap in the road in order to successfully merge or change lanes. Our policy learns to repeatedly probe into the target road lane while trying to find a safe spot to move in to. We compare against two model-predictive control-based algorithms and show that our policy outperforms them in simulation. As part of this work, we introduce a benchmark for driving in dense traffic for use by the community.


Title: OneShot Global Localization: Instant LiDAR-Visual Pose Estimation
Abstract: Globally localizing in a given map is a crucial ability for robots to perform a wide range of autonomous navigation tasks. This paper presents OneShot - a global localization algorithm that uses only a single 3D LiDAR scan at a time, while outperforming approaches based on integrating a sequence of point clouds. Our approach, which does not require the robot to move, relies on learning-based descriptors of point cloud segments and computes the full 6 degree-of-freedom pose in a map. The segments are extracted from the current LiDAR scan and are matched against a database using the computed descriptors. Candidate matches are then verified with a geometric consistency test. We additionally present a strategy to further improve the performance of the segment descriptors by augmenting them with visual information provided by a camera. For this purpose, a custom-tailored neural network architecture is proposed. We demonstrate that our LiDAR-only approach outperforms a state-of-the-art baseline on a sequence of the KITTI dataset and also evaluate its performance on the challenging NCLT dataset. Finally, we show that fusing in visual information boosts segment retrieval rates by up to 26% compared to LiDAR-only description.


Title: Gershgorin Loss Stabilizes the Recurrent Neural Network Compartment of an End-to-end Robot Learning Scheme
Abstract: Traditional robotic control suits require profound task-specific knowledge for designing, building and testing control software. The rise of Deep Learning has enabled end-to-end solutions to be learned entirely from data, requiring minimal knowledge about the application area. We design a learning scheme to train end-to-end linear dynamical systems (LDS)s by gradient descent in imitation learning robotic domains. We introduce a new regularization loss component together with a learning algorithm that improves the stability of the learned autonomous system, by forcing the eigenvalues of the internal state updates of an LDS to be negative reals. We evaluate our approach on a series of real-life and simulated robotic experiments, in comparison to linear and nonlinear Recurrent Neural Network (RNN) architectures. Our results show that our stabilizing method significantly improves test performance of LDS, enabling such linear models to match the performance of contemporary nonlinear RNN architectures. A video of the obstacle avoidance performance of our method on a mobile robot, in unseen environments, compared to other methods can be viewed at https://youtu.be/mhEsCoNao5E.


Title: Mini-Batched Online Incremental Learning Through Supervisory Teleoperation with Kinesthetic Coupling*
Abstract: We propose an online incremental learning approach through teleoperation which allows an operator to partially modify a learned model, whenever it is necessary, during task execution. Compared to conventional incremental learning approaches, the proposed approach is applicable for teleoperation-based teaching and it needs only partial demonstration without any need to obstruct the task execution. Dynamic authority distribution and kinesthetic coupling between the operator and the agent helps the operator to correctly perceive the exact instance where modification needs to be asserted in the agent's behaviour online using partial trajectory. For this, we propose a variation of the Expectation-Maximization algorithm for updating original model through mini batches of the modified partial trajectory. The proposed approach reduces human workload and latency for a rhythmic peg-in-hole teleoperation task where online partial modification is required during the task operation.


Title: Recurrent Neural Network Control of a Hybrid Dynamical Transfemoral Prosthesis with EdgeDRNN Accelerator
Abstract: Lower leg prostheses could improve the life quality of amputees by increasing comfort and reducing energy to locomote, but currently control methods are limited in modulating behaviors based upon the human's experience. This paper describes the first steps toward learning complex controllers for dynamical robotic assistive devices. We provide the first example of behavioral cloning to control a powered transfemoral prostheses using a Gated Recurrent Unit (GRU) based recurrent neural network (RNN) running on a custom hardware accelerator that exploits temporal sparsity. The RNN is trained on data collected from the original prosthesis controller. The RNN inference is realized by a novel EdgeDRNN accelerator in real-time. Experimental results show that the RNN can replace the nominal PD controller to realize end-to-end control of the AMPRO3 prosthetic leg walking on flat ground and unforeseen slopes with comparable tracking accuracy. EdgeDRNN computes the RNN about 240 times faster than real time, opening the possibility of running larger networks for more complex tasks in the future. Implementing an RNN on this real-time dynamical system with impacts sets the ground work to incorporate other learned elements of the human-prosthesis system into prosthesis control.


Title: Cross-context Visual Imitation Learning from Demonstrations
Abstract: Imitation learning enables robots to learn a task by simply watching the demonstration of the task. Current imitation learning methods usually require the learner and demonstrator to occur in the same context. This limits their scalability to practical applications. In this paper, we propose a more general imitation learning method which allows the learner and the demonstrator to come from different contexts, such as different viewpoints, backgrounds, and object positions and appearances. Specifically, we design a robotic system consisting of three models: context translation model, depth prediction model and multi-modal inverse dynamics model. First, the context translation model translates the demonstration to the context of learner from a different context. Then combining the color observation and depth observation as inputs, the inverse model maps the multi-modal observations into actions to reproduce the demonstration, where the depth observation is provided by a depth prediction model. By performing the block stacking tasks both in simulation and real world, we prove the cross-context learning advantage of the proposed robotic system over other systems.


Title: Improving Generalisation in Learning Assistance by Demonstration for Smart Wheelchairs
Abstract: Learning Assistance by Demonstration (LAD) is concerned with using demonstrations of a human agent to teach a robot how to assist another human. The concept has previously been used with smart wheelchairs to provide customised assistance to individuals with driving difficulties. A basic premise of this technique is that the learned assistive policy should be able to generalise to environments different than the ones used for training; but this has not been tested before. In this work we evaluate the assistive power and the generalisation capability of LAD using our custom teleoperation and learning system for smart wheelchairs, while seeking to improve it by experimenting with different combinations of dimensionality reduction techniques and machine learning models. Using Autoencoders to reduce the dimension of laserscan data and a Gaussian Process as the learning model, we achieved a 23% improvement in prediction performance against the combination used by the latest work on the field. Using this model to assist a driver exposed to a simulated disability, we observed a 9.8% reduction in track completion times when compared to driving without assistance.


Title: Analyzing the Suitability of Cost Functions for Explaining and Imitating Human Driving Behavior based on Inverse Reinforcement Learning
Abstract: Autonomous vehicles are sharing the road with human drivers. In order to facilitate interactive driving and cooperative behavior in dense traffic, a thorough understanding and representation of other traffic participants' behavior are necessary. Cost functions (or reward functions) have been widely used to describe the behavior of human drivers since they can not only explicitly incorporate the rationality of human drivers and the theory of mind (TOM), but also share similarity with the motion planning problem of autonomous vehicles. Hence, more human-like driving behavior and comprehensible trajectories can be generated to enable safer interaction and cooperation. However, the selection of cost functions in different driving scenarios is not trivial, and there is no systematic summary and analysis for cost function selection and learning from a variety of driving scenarios. In this work, we aim to investigate to what extent cost functions are suitable for explaining and imitating human driving behavior. Further, we focus on how cost functions differ from each other in different driving scenarios. Towards this goal, we first comprehensively review existing cost function structures in literature. Based on that, we point out required conditions for demonstrations to be suitable for inverse reinforcement learning (IRL). Finally, we use IRL to explore suitable features and learn cost function weights from human driven trajectories in three different scenarios.


Title: Representing Multi-Robot Structure through Multimodal Graph Embedding for the Selection of Robot Teams
Abstract: Multi-robot systems of increasing size and complexity are used to solve large-scale problems, such as area exploration and search and rescue. A key decision in human-robot teaming is dividing a multi-robot system into teams to address separate issues or to accomplish a task over a large area. In order to address the problem of selecting teams in a multi-robot system, we propose a new multimodal graph embedding method to construct a unified representation that fuses multiple information modalities to describe and divide a multi-robot system. The relationship modalities are encoded as directed graphs that can encode asymmetrical relationships, which are embedded into a unified representation for each robot. Then, the constructed multimodal representation is used to determine teams based upon unsupervised learning. We per-form experiments to evaluate our approach on expert-defined team formations, large-scale simulated multi-robot systems, and a system of physical robots. Experimental results show that our method successfully decides correct teams based on the multifaceted internal structures describing multi-robot systems, and outperforms baseline methods based upon only one mode of information, as well as other graph embedding-based division methods.


Title: Learning to Control Reconfigurable Staged Soft Arms
Abstract: In this work, we present a novel approach for modeling, and classifying between, the system load states introduced when constructing staged soft arm configurations. Through a two stage approach: (1) an LSTM calibration routine is used to identify the current load state then (2) a control input generation step combines a generalized quasistatic model with the learned load model. Our experiments show that accounting for system load allows us to more accurately control tapered arm configurations. We analyze the performance of our method using soft robotic actuators and show it is capable of classifying between different arm configurations at a rate greater than 95%. Additionally, our method is capable of reducing the end-effector error of quasistatic model only control to within 1 cm of our controller baseline.


Title: Grasping Unknown Objects by Coupling Deep Reinforcement Learning, Generative Adversarial Networks, and Visual Servoing
Abstract: In this paper, we propose a novel approach for transferring a deep reinforcement learning (DRL) grasping agent from simulation to a real robot, without fine tuning in the real world. The approach utilises a CycleGAN to close the reality gap between the simulated and real environments, in a reverse real-to-sim manner, effectively "tricking" the agent into believing it is still in the simulator. Furthermore, a visual servoing (VS) grasping task is added to correct for inaccurate agent gripper pose estimations derived from deep learning. The proposed approach is evaluated by means of real grasping experiments, achieving a success rate of 83 % on previously seen objects, and the same success rate for previously unseen, semi-compliant objects. The robustness of the approach is demonstrated by comparing it with two baselines, DRL plus CycleGAN, and VS only. The results clearly show that our approach outperforms both baselines.


Title: Learning to Scaffold the Development of Robotic Manipulation Skills
Abstract: Learning contact-rich, robotic manipulation skills is a challenging problem due to the high-dimensionality of the state and action space as well as uncertainty from noisy sensors and inaccurate motor control. To combat these factors and achieve more robust manipulation, humans actively exploit contact constraints in the environment. By adopting a similar strategy, robots can also achieve more robust manipulation. In this paper, we enable a robot to autonomously modify its environment and thereby discover how to ease manipulation skill learning. Specifically, we provide the robot with fixtures that it can freely place within the environment. These fixtures provide hard constraints that limit the outcome of robot actions. Thereby, they funnel uncertainty from perception and motor control and scaffold manipulation skill learning. We propose a learning system that consists of two learning loops. In the outer loop, the robot positions the fixture in the workspace. In the inner loop, the robot learns a manipulation skill and after a fixed number of episodes, returns the reward to the outer loop. Thereby, the robot is incentivised to place the fixture such that the inner loop quickly achieves a high reward. We demonstrate our framework both in simulation and in the real world on three tasks: peg insertion, wrench manipulation and shallow- depth insertion. We show that manipulation skill learning is dramatically sped up through this way of scaffolding.


Title: UNO: Uncertainty-aware Noisy-Or Multimodal Fusion for Unanticipated Input Degradation
Abstract: The fusion of multiple sensor modalities, especially through deep learning architectures, has been an active area of study. However, an under-explored aspect of such work is whether the methods can be robust to degradation across their input modalities, especially when they must generalize to degradation not seen during training. In this work, we propose an uncertainty-aware fusion scheme to effectively fuse inputs that might suffer from a range of known and unknown degradation. Specifically, we analyze a number of uncertainty measures, each of which captures a different aspect of uncertainty, and we propose a novel way to fuse degraded inputs by scaling modality-specific output softmax probabilities. We additionally propose a novel data-dependent spatial temperature scaling method to complement these existing uncertainty measures. Finally, we integrate the uncertainty-scaled output from each modality using a probabilistic noisy-or fusion method. In a photo-realistic simulation environment (AirSim), we show that our method achieves significantly better results on a semantic segmentation task, as compared to state-of-art fusion architectures, on a range of degradation (e.g. fog, snow, frost, and various other types of noise), some of which are unknown during training.


Title: Scaled Autonomy: Enabling Human Operators to Control Robot Fleets
Abstract: Autonomous robots often encounter challenging situations where their control policies fail and an expert human operator must briefly intervene, e.g., through teleoperation. In settings where multiple robots act in separate environments, a single human operator can manage a fleet of robots by identifying and teleoperating one robot at any given time. The key challenge is that users have limited attention: as the number of robots increases, users lose the ability to decide which robot requires teleoperation the most. Our goal is to automate this decision, thereby enabling users to supervise more robots than their attention would normally allow for. Our insight is that we can model the user's choice of which robot to control as an approximately optimal decision that maximizes the user's utility function. We learn a model of the user's preferences from observations of the user's choices in easy settings with a few robots, and use it in challenging settings with more robots to automatically identify which robot the user would most likely choose to control, if they were able to evaluate the states of all robots at all times. We run simulation experiments and a user study with twelve participants that show our method can be used to assist users in performing a simulated navigation task. We also run a hardware demonstration that illustrates how our method can be applied to a real-world mobile robot navigation task.


Title: An Actor-Critic Approach for Legible Robot Motion Planner
Abstract: In human-robot collaboration, it is crucial for the robot to make its intentions clear and predictable to the human partners. Inspired by the mutual learning and adaptation of human partners, we suggest an actor-critic approach for a legible robot motion planner. This approach includes two neural networks and a legibility evaluator: 1) A policy network based on deep reinforcement learning (DRL); 2) A Recurrent Neural Networks (RNNs) based sequence to sequence (Seq2Seq) model as a motion predictor; 3) A legibility evaluator that maps motion to legible reward. Through a series of human-subject experiments, we demonstrate that with a simple handicraft function and no real-human data, our method lead to improved collaborative performance against a baseline method and a non-prediction method.


Title: Joint Inference of States, Robot Knowledge, and Human (False-)Beliefs
Abstract: Aiming to understand how human (false-)belief- a core socio-cognitive ability-would affect human interactions with robots, this paper proposes to adopt a graphical model to unify the representation of object states, robot knowledge, and human (false-)beliefs. Specifically, a parse graph (pg) is learned from a single-view spatiotemporal parsing by aggregating various object states along the time; such a learned representation is accumulated as the robot's knowledge. An inference algorithm is derived to fuse individual pg from all robots across multi-views into a joint pg, which affords more effective reasoning and inference capability to overcome the errors originated from a single view. In the experiments, through the joint inference over pgs, the system correctly recognizes human (false-)belief in various settings and achieves better cross-view accuracy on a challenging small object tracking dataset.


Title: Audiovisual cognitive architecture for autonomous learning of face localisation by a Humanoid Robot
Abstract: Newborn infants are naturally attracted to human faces, a crucial source of information for social interaction. In robotics, acquisition of such information is crucial and social robots should also learn to exhibit such social skill. Deep learning algorithms are valid candidates to address the problem of face localisation. However, a major drawback of these methods is the large amount of data and human supervision needed in the training procedure. In this work, we propose a cognitive architecture to address autonomous learning from raw sensory signals without supervision. We demonstrate the success of our cognitive framework for the task of face localisation. The proposed cognitive architecture builds on existing work and uses audiovisual attention and a proactive stereo vision mechanism to autonomously direct a robot's attentive focus towards human faces. The gathered information is used to incrementally generate a dataset that can be used to train a state-of-the-art deep network. The learning system imitates the typical learning process of infants and enhances the learning generalization process by leveraging on the interaction experience with people. The integration of HRI with machine learning, inspired by early development in humans, constitutes an innovative approach for improving autonomous learning in robots.


Title: Planetary Rover Exploration Combining Remote and In Situ Measurements for Active Spectroscopic Mapping
Abstract: Maintaining high levels of productivity for planetary rover missions is very difficult due to limited communication and heavy reliance on ground control. There is a need for autonomy that enables more adaptive and efficient actions based on real-time information. This paper presents an autonomous mapping and exploration approach for planetary rovers. We first describe a machine learning model that actively combines remote and rover measurements for mapping. We focus on spectroscopic data because they are commonly used to investigate surface composition. We then incorporate notions from information theory and non-myopic path planning to improve exploration productivity. Finally, we demonstrate the feasibility and successful performance of our approach via spectroscopic investigations of Cuprite, Nevada; a well-studied region of mineralogical and geological interest. We first perform a detailed analysis in simulations, and then validate those results with an actual rover in the field in Nevada.


Title: Magnetic Docking Mechanism for Free-flying Space Robots with Spherical Surfaces
Abstract: The autonomous operation of robots in the International Space Station (ISS) is required to maximize the use of limited resources and enable astronauts to concentrate more on valuable tasks. To achieve these goals, we are developing a station where the robot approaches, docks, charges, and then undocks. In this paper, the authors propose a magnetic docking mechanism for free-flying robots with spherical surfaces that makes it possible for a robot to dock securely without requiring highly precise guidance, navigation and control capability. By making use of a slider guide and repelling pairs of magnets, this mechanism can achieve tolerance for larger robot position error as compared with the conventional fixed guide mechanism. The experimental results show that the proposed mechanism can effectively enlarge the acceptable error range of poses, and also reduce acceleration at the moment of impact. We also introduce a model to predict the success or failure of docking from the contact condition of the robot and the guide by using a machine learning technique - Gaussian Process Regression (GPR). The prediction results shows that the learnt model can express the contact condition of successful docking.


Title: Barefoot Rover: a Sensor-Embedded Rover Wheel Demonstrating In-Situ Engineering and Science Extractions using Machine Learning
Abstract: In this work, we demonstrate an instrumented wheel concept which utilizes a 2D pressure grid, an electrochemical impedance spectroscopy (EIS) sensor and machine learning (ML) to extract meaningful metrics from the interaction between the wheel and surface terrain. These include continuous slip/skid estimation, balance, and sharpness for engineering applications. Estimates of surface hydration, texture, terrain patterns, and regolith physical properties such as cohesion and angle of internal friction are additionally calculated for science applications. Traditional systems rely on post-processing of visual images and vehicle telemetry to estimate these metrics. Through in-situ sensing, these metrics can be calculated in near real time and made available to onboard science and engineering autonomy applications. This work aims to provide a deployable system for future planetary exploration missions to increase science and engineering capabilities through increased knowledge of the terrain.


Title: Deep Learning for Spacecraft Pose Estimation from Photorealistic Rendering
Abstract: On-orbit proximity operations in space rendezvous, docking and debris removal require precise and robust 6D pose estimation under a wide range of lighting conditions and against highly textured background, i.e., the Earth. This paper investigates leveraging deep learning and photorealistic rendering for monocular pose estimation of known uncooperative spacecraft. We first present a simulator built on Unreal Engine 4, named URSO, to generate labeled images of spacecraft orbiting the Earth, which can be used to train and evaluate neural networks. Secondly, we propose a deep learning framework for pose estimation based on orientation soft classification, which allows modelling orientation ambiguity as a mixture model. This framework was evaluated both on URSO datasets and the European Space Agency pose estimation challenge. In this competition, our best model achieved 3rd place on the synthetic test set and 2nd place on the real test set. Moreover, our results show the impact of several architectural and training aspects, and we demonstrate qualitatively how models learned on URSO datasets can perform on real images from space.


Title: Robust 6D Object Pose Estimation by Learning RGB-D Features
Abstract: Accurate 6D object pose estimation is fundamental to robotic manipulation and grasping. Previous methods follow a local optimization approach which minimizes the distance between closest point pairs to handle the rotation ambiguity of symmetric objects. In this work, we propose a novel discrete- continuous formulation for rotation regression to resolve this local-optimum problem. We uniformly sample rotation anchors in SO(3), and predict a constrained deviation from each anchor to the target, as well as uncertainty scores for selecting the best prediction. Additionally, the object location is detected by aggregating point-wise vectors pointing to the 3D center. Experiments on two benchmarks: LINEMOD and YCB-Video, show that the proposed method outperforms state-of-the-art approaches. Our code is available at https://github.com/mentian/object-posenet.


Title: Split Deep Q-Learning for Robust Object Singulation*
Abstract: Extracting a known target object from a pile of other objects in a cluttered environment is a challenging robotic manipulation task encountered in many robotic applications. In such conditions, the target object touches or is covered by adjacent obstacle objects, thus rendering traditional grasping techniques ineffective. In this paper, we propose a pushing policy aiming at singulating the target object from its surrounding clutter, by means of lateral pushing movements of both the neighboring objects and the target object until sufficient 'grasping room' has been achieved. To achieve the above goal we employ reinforcement learning and particularly Deep Qlearning (DQN) to learn optimal push policies by trial and error. A novel Split DQN is proposed to improve the learning rate and increase the modularity of the algorithm. Experiments show that although learning is performed in a simulated environment the transfer of learned policies to a real environment is effective thanks to robust feature selection. Finally, we demonstrate that the modularity of the algorithm allows the addition of extra primitives without retraining the model from scratch.


Title: 6-DOF Grasping for Target-driven Object Manipulation in Clutter
Abstract: Grasping in cluttered environments is a fundamental but challenging robotic skill. It requires both reasoning about unseen object parts and potential collisions with the manipulator. Most existing data-driven approaches avoid this problem by limiting themselves to top-down planar grasps which is insufficient for many real-world scenarios and greatly limits possible grasps. We present a method that plans 6-DOF grasps for any desired object in a cluttered scene from partial point cloud observations. Our method achieves a grasp success of 80.3%, outperforming baseline approaches by 17.6% and clearing 9 cluttered table scenes (which contain 23 unknown objects and 51 picks in total) on a real robotic platform. By using our learned collision checking module, we can even reason about effective grasp sequences to retrieve objects that are not immediately accessible. Supplementary video can be found here.


Title: Topological Mapping for Manhattan-like Repetitive Environments
Abstract: We showcase a topological mapping framework for a challenging indoor warehouse setting. At the most abstract level, the warehouse is represented as a Topological Graph where the nodes of the graph represent a particular warehouse topological construct (e.g. rackspace, corridor) and the edges denote the existence of a path between two neighbouring nodes or topologies. At the intermediate level, the map is represented as a Manhattan Graph where the nodes and edges are characterized by Manhattan properties and as a Pose Graph at the lower-most level of detail. The topological constructs are learned via a Deep Convolutional Network while the relational properties between topological instances are learnt via a Siamese-style Neural Network. In the paper, we show that maintaining abstractions such as Topological Graph and Manhattan Graph help in recovering an accurate Pose Graph starting from a highly erroneous and unoptimized Pose Graph. We show how this is achieved by embedding topological and Manhattan relations as well as Manhattan Graph aided loop closure relations as constraints in the backend Pose Graph optimization framework. The recovery of near ground-truth Pose Graph on real-world indoor warehouse scenes vindicate the efficacy of the proposed framework.


Title: Simulation-Based Reinforcement Learning for Real-World Autonomous Driving
Abstract: We use reinforcement learning in simulation to obtain a driving system controlling a full-size real-world vehicle. The driving policy takes RGB images from a single camera and their semantic segmentation as input. We use mostly synthetic data, with labelled real-world data appearing only in the training of the segmentation network.Using reinforcement learning in simulation and synthetic data is motivated by lowering costs and engineering effort.In real-world experiments we confirm that we achieved successful sim-to-real policy transfer. Based on the extensive evaluation, we analyze how design decisions about perception, control, and training impact the real-world performance.


Title: Driving Style Encoder: Situational Reward Adaptation for General-Purpose Planning in Automated Driving
Abstract: General-purpose planning algorithms for automated driving combine mission, behavior, and local motion planning. Such planning algorithms map features of the environment and driving kinematics into complex reward functions. To achieve this, planning experts often rely on linear reward functions. The specification and tuning of these reward functions is a tedious process and requires significant experience. Moreover, a manually designed linear reward function does not generalize across different driving situations. In this work, we propose a deep learning approach based on inverse reinforcement learning that generates situation-dependent reward functions. Our neural network provides a mapping between features and actions of sampled driving policies of a model-predictive control-based planner and predicts reward functions for upcoming planning cycles. In our evaluation, we compare the driving style of reward functions predicted by our deep network against clustered and linear reward functions. Our proposed deep learning approach outperforms clustered linear reward functions and is at par with linear reward functions with a-priori knowledge about the situation.


Title: Multi-modal Experts Network for Autonomous Driving
Abstract: End-to-end learning from sensory data has shown promising results in autonomous driving. While employing many sensors enhances world perception and should lead to more robust and reliable behavior of autonomous vehicles, it is challenging to train and deploy such network and at least two problems are encountered in the considered setting. The first one is the increase of computational complexity with the number of sensing devices. The other is the phenomena of network overfitting to the simplest and most informative input. We address both challenges with a novel, carefully tailored multi-modal experts network architecture and propose a multi-stage training procedure. The network contains a gating mechanism, which selects the most relevant input at each inference time step using a mixed discrete-continuous policy. We demonstrate the plausibility of the proposed approach on our 1/6 scale truck equipped with three cameras and one LiDAR.


Title: Hybrid Localization using Model- and Learning-Based Methods: Fusion of Monte Carlo and E2E Localizations via Importance Sampling
Abstract: This paper proposes a hybrid localization method that fuses Monte Carlo localization (MCL) and convolutional neural network (CNN)-based end-to-end (E2E) localization. MCL is based on particle filter and requires proposal distributions to sample the particles. The proposal distribution is generally predicted using a motion model. However, because the motion model cannot handle unanticipated errors, the predicted distribution is sometimes inaccurate. The use of other ideal proposal distributions, such as the measurement model, can improve robustness against such unanticipated errors. This technique is called importance sampling (IS). However, it is difficult to sample the particles from such ideal distributions because they are not represented in the closed form. Recent works have proved that CNNs with dropout layers represent the posterior distributions over their outputs conditioned on the inputs and the CNN predictions are equivalent to sampling the outputs from the posterior. Therefore, the proposed method utilizes a CNN to sample the particles and fuses them with MCL via IS. Consequently, the advantages of both MCL and E2E localization can be simultaneously leveraged while preventing their disadvantages. Experiments demonstrate that the proposed method can smoothly estimate the robot pose, similar to the model-based method, and quickly re-localize it from the failures, similar to the learning-based method.


Title: Adaptive Curriculum Generation from Demonstrations for Sim-to-Real Visuomotor Control
Abstract: We propose Adaptive Curriculum Generation from Demonstrations (ACGD) for reinforcement learning in the presence of sparse rewards. Rather than designing shaped reward functions, ACGD adaptively sets the appropriate task difficulty for the learner by controlling where to sample from the demonstration trajectories and which set of simulation parameters to use. We show that training vision-based control policies in simulation while gradually increasing the difficulty of the task via ACGD improves the policy transfer to the real world. The degree of domain randomization is also gradually increased through the task difficulty. We demonstrate zero-shot transfer for two real-world manipulation tasks: pick-and-stow and block stacking. A video showing the results can be found at https://lmb.informatik.uni-freiburg.de/projects/curriculum/.


Title: Accept Synthetic Objects as Real: End-to-End Training of Attentive Deep Visuomotor Policies for Manipulation in Clutter
Abstract: Recent research demonstrated that it is feasible to end-to-end train multi-task deep visuomotor policies for robotic manipulation using variations of learning from demonstration (LfD) and reinforcement learning (RL). In this paper, we extend the capabilities of end-to-end LfD architectures to object manipulation in clutter. We start by introducing a data augmentation procedure called Accept Synthetic Objects as Real (ASOR). Using ASOR we develop two network architectures: implicit attention ASOR-IA and explicit attention ASOR-EA. Both architectures use the same training data (demonstrations in uncluttered environments) as previous approaches. Experimental results show that ASOR-IA and ASOR-EA succeed in a significant fraction of trials in cluttered environments where previous approaches never succeed. In addition, we find that both ASOR-IA and ASOR-EA outperform previous approaches even in uncluttered environments, with ASOR-EA performing better even in clutter compared to the previous best baseline in an uncluttered environment.


Title: Learning of Exception Strategies in Assembly Tasks
Abstract: Assembly tasks performed with a robot often fail due to unforeseen situations, regardless of the fact that we carefully learned and optimized the assembly policy. This problem is even more present in humanoid robots acting in an unstructured environment where it is not possible to anticipate all factors that might lead to the failure of the given task. In this work, we propose a concurrent LfD framework, which associates demonstrated exception strategies to the given context. Whenever a failure occurs, the proposed algorithm generalizes past experience regarding the current context and generates an appropriate policy that solves the assembly issue. For this purpose, we applied PCA on force/torque data, which generates low dimensional descriptor of the current context. The proposed framework was validated in a peg-in-hole (PiH) task using Franka-Emika Panda robot.


Title: Finding Locomanipulation Plans Quickly in the Locomotion Constrained Manifold
Abstract: We present a method that finds locomanipulation plans that perform simultaneous locomotion and manipulation of objects for a desired end-effector trajectory. Key to our approach is to consider an injective locomotion constraint manifold that defines the locomotion scheme of the robot and then using this constraint manifold to search for admissible manipulation trajectories. The problem is formulated as a weighted-A* graph search whose planner output is a sequence of contact transitions and a path progression trajectory to construct the whole-body kinodynamic locomanipulation plan. We also provide a method for computing, visualizing, and learning the locomanipulability region, which is used to efficiently evaluate the edge transition feasibility during the graph search. Numerical simulations are performed with the NASA Valkyrie robot platform that utilizes a dynamic locomotion approach, called the divergent-component-of-motion (DCM), on two example locomanipulation scenarios.


Title: CyPhyHouse: A programming, simulation, and deployment toolchain for heterogeneous distributed coordination
Abstract: Programming languages, libraries, and development tools have transformed the application development processes for mobile computing and machine learning. This paper introduces CyPhyHouse-a toolchain that aims to provide similar programming, debugging, and deployment benefits for distributed mobile robotic applications. Users can develop hardware-agnostic, distributed applications using the high-level, event driven Koord programming language, without requiring expertise in controller design or distributed network protocols. The modular, platform-independent middleware of CyPhyHouse implements these functionalities using standard algorithms for path planning (RRT), control (MPC), mutual exclusion, etc. A high-fidelity, scalable, multi-threaded simulator for Koord applications is developed to simulate the same application code for dozens of heterogeneous agents. The same compiled code can also be deployed on heterogeneous mobile platforms. The effectiveness of CyPhyHouse in improving the design cycles is explicitly illustrated in a robotic testbed through development, simulation, and deployment of a distributed task allocation application on in-house ground and aerial vehicles.


Title: Force Adaptation in Contact Tasks with Dynamical Systems
Abstract: In many tasks such as finishing operations, achieving accurate force tracking is essential. However, uncertainties in the robot dynamics and the environment limit the force tracking accuracy. Learning a compensation model for these uncertainties to reduce the force error is an effective approach to overcome this limitation. However, this approach requires an adaptive and robust framework for motion and force generation. In this paper, we use the time-invariant Dynamical System (DS) framework for force adaptation in contact tasks. We propose to improve force tracking accuracy through online adaptation of a state-dependent force correction model encoded with Radial Basis Functions (RBFs). We evaluate our method with a KUKA LWR IV+ robotic arm. We show its efficiency to reduce the force error to a negligible amount with different target forces and robot velocities. Furthermore, we study the effect of the hyper-parameters and provide a guideline for their selection. We showcase a collaborative cleaning task with a human by integrating our method to previous works to achieve force, motion, and task adaptation at the same time. Thereby, we highlight the benefits of using adaptive force control in real-world environments where we need reactive and adaptive behaviours in response to interactions with the environment.


Title: 3DCFS: Fast and Robust Joint 3D Semantic-Instance Segmentation via Coupled Feature Selection
Abstract: We propose a novel fast and robust 3D point clouds segmentation framework via coupled feature selection, named 3DCFS, that jointly performs semantic and instance segmentation. Inspired by the human scene perception process, we design a novel coupled feature selection module, named CFSM, that adaptively selects and fuses the reciprocal semantic and instance features from two tasks in a coupled manner. To further boost the performance of the instance segmentation task in our 3DCFS, we investigate a loss function that helps the model learn to balance the magnitudes of the output embedding dimensions during training, which makes calculating the Euclidean distance more reliable and enhances the generalizability of the model. Extensive experiments demonstrate that our 3DCFS outperforms state-of-the-art methods on benchmark datasets in terms of accuracy, speed and computational cost. Codes are available at: https://github.com/Biotan/3DCFS.


Title: Who2com: Collaborative Perception via Learnable Handshake Communication
Abstract: In this paper, we propose the problem of collaborative perception, where robots can combine their local observations with those of neighboring agents in a learnable way to improve accuracy on a perception task. Unlike existing work in robotics and multi-agent reinforcement learning, we formulate the problem as one where learned information must be shared across a set of agents in a bandwidth-sensitive manner to optimize for scene understanding tasks such as semantic segmentation. Inspired by networking communication protocols, we propose a multi-stage handshake communication mechanism where the neural network can learn to compress relevant information needed for each stage. Specifically, a target agent with degraded sensor data sends a compressed request, the other agents respond with matching scores, and the target agent determines who to connect with (i.e., receive information from). We additionally develop the AirSim-CP dataset and metrics based on the AirSim simulator where a group of aerial robots perceive diverse landscapes, such as roads, grasslands, buildings, etc. We show that for the semantic segmentation task, our handshake communication method significantly improves accuracy by approximately 20% over decentralized baselines, and is comparable to centralized ones using a quarter of the bandwidth.


Title: Real-time Continuous Hand Motion Myoelectric Decoding by Automated Data Labeling*
Abstract: In this paper an automated data labeling (ADL) neural network is proposed to streamline dataset collecting for real-time predicting the continuous motion of hand and wrist, these gestures are only decoded from a surface electromyography (sEMG) array of eight channels. Unlike collecting both the bio-signals and hand motion signals as samples and labels in supervised learning, this algorithm only collects unlabeled sEMG into an unsupervised neural network, in which the hand motion labels are auto-generated. The coefficient of determination (R2) for three DOFs, i.e. wrist flex/extension, wrist pro/supination, hand open/close, was 0.86, 0.89 and 0.87 respectively. The comparison between real motion labels and auto-generated labels shows that the latter has earlier response than former. The results of Fitts' law test indicate that ADL has capability of controlling multi-DOFs simultaneously even though the training set only contains sEMG data from single DOF gesture. Moreover, no more hand motion measurement needed which greatly helps upper limb amputee imagine the gesture of residual limb to control a dexterous prosthesis.


Title: Mapless Navigation among Dynamics with Social-safety-awareness: a reinforcement learning approach from 2D laser scans
Abstract: We consider the problem of mapless collision-avoidance navigation where humans are present using 2D laser scans. Our proposed method uses ego-safety to measure collision from the robot's perspective and social-safety to measure the impact of robot's actions on surrounding pedestrians. Specifically, the social-safety part predicts the intrusion impact of the robot's action into the interaction area with surrounding humans. We train the policy using reinforcement learning on a simple simulator and directly evaluate the learned policy in Gazebo and real robot tests. Experiments show the learned policy smoothly transferred to different scenarios without any fine tuning. We observe that our method demonstrates time-efficient path planning behavior with high success rate in the mapless navigation task. Furthermore, we test our method in a navigation task among dynamic crowds, considering both low and high volume traffic. Our learned policy demonstrates cooperative behavior that actively drives our robot into traffic flows while showing respect to nearby pedestrians. Evaluation videos are at https://sites.google.com/view/ssw-batman.


Title: Sim2real gap is non-monotonic with robot complexity for morphology-in-the-loop flapping wing design
Abstract: Morphology of a robot design is important to its ability to achieve a stated goal and therefore applying machine learning approaches that incorporate morphology in the design space can provide scope for significant advantage. Our study is set in a domain known to be reliant on morphology: flapping wing flight. We developed a parameterised morphology design space that draws features from biological exemplars and apply automated design to produce a set of high performance robot morphologies in simulation. By performing sim2real transfer on a selection, for the first time we measured the shape of the reality gap for variations in design complexity. We found for the flapping wing that the reality gap changes non-monotonically with complexity, suggesting that certain morphology details narrow the gap more than others, and that such details could be identified and further optimised in a future end-to-end automated morphology design process.


Title: Learning Shape-based Representation for Visual Localization in Extremely Changing Conditions
Abstract: Visual localization is an important task for applications such as navigation and augmented reality, but is a challenging problem when there are changes in scene appearances through day, seasons, or environments. In this paper, we present a convolutional neural network (CNN)-based approach for visual localization across normal to drastic appearance variations such as pre- and post-disaster cases. Our approach aims to address two key challenges: (1) to reduce the biases based on scene textures as in traditional CNNs, our model learns a shape-based representation by training on stylized images; (2) to make the model robust against layout changes, our approach uses the estimated dominant planes of query images as approximate scene coordinates. Our method is evaluated on various scenes including a simulated disaster dataset to demonstrate the effectiveness of our method in significant changes of scene layout. Experimental results show that our method provides reliable camera pose predictions in various changing conditions.


Title: Robust Model Predictive Shielding for Safe Reinforcement Learning with Stochastic Dynamics
Abstract: We propose a framework for safe reinforcement learning that can handle stochastic nonlinear dynamical systems. We focus on the setting where the nominal dynamics are known, and are subject to additive stochastic disturbances with known distribution. Our goal is to ensure the safety of a control policy trained using reinforcement learning, e.g., in a simulated environment. We build on the idea of model predictive shielding (MPS), where a backup controller is used to override the learned policy as needed to ensure safety. The key challenge is how to compute a backup policy in the context of stochastic dynamics. We propose to use a tube-based robust nonlinear model predictive controller (NMPC) as the backup controller. We estimate the tubes using sampled trajectories, leveraging ideas from statistical learning theory to obtain high-probability guarantees. We empirically demonstrate that our approach can ensure safety in stochastic systems, including cart-pole and a non-holonomic particle with random obstacles.


Title: Is That a Chair? Imagining Affordances Using Simulations of an Articulated Human Body
Abstract: For robots to exhibit a high level of intelligence in the real world, they must be able to assess objects for which they have no prior knowledge. Therefore, it is crucial for robots to perceive object affordances by reasoning about physical interactions with the object. In this paper, we propose a novel method to provide robots with an ability to imagine object affordances using physical simulations. The class of chair is chosen here as an initial category of objects to illustrate a more general paradigm. In our method, the robot "imagines" the affordance of an arbitrarily oriented object as a chair by simulating a physical sitting interaction between an articulated human body and the object. This object affordance reasoning is used as a cue for object classification (chair vs non-chair). Moreover, if an object is classified as a chair, the affordance reasoning can also predict the upright pose of the object which allows the sitting interaction to take place. We call this type of poses the functional pose. We demonstrate our method in chair classification on synthetic 3D CAD models. Although our method uses only 30 models for training, it outperforms appearance-based deep learning methods, which require a large amount of training data, when the upright orientation is not assumed to be known a priori. In addition, we showcase that the functional pose predictions of our method align well with human judgments on both synthetic models and real objects scanned by a depth camera.


Title: Toward Sim-to-Real Directional Semantic Grasping
Abstract: We address the problem of directional semantic grasping, that is, grasping a specific object from a specific direction. We approach the problem using deep reinforcement learning via a double deep Q-network (DDQN) that learns to map downsampled RGB input images from a wrist-mounted camera to Q-values, which are then translated into Cartesian robot control commands via the cross-entropy method (CEM). The network is learned entirely on simulated data generated by a custom robot simulator that models both physical reality (contacts) and perceptual quality (high-quality rendering). The reality gap is bridged using domain randomization. The system is an example of end-to-end (mapping input monocular RGB images to output Cartesian motor commands) grasping of objects from multiple pre-defined object-centric orientations, such as from the side or top. We show promising results in both simulation and the real world, along with some challenges faced and the need for future research in this area.


Title: KETO: Learning Keypoint Representations for Tool Manipulation
Abstract: We aim to develop an algorithm for robots to manipulate novel objects as tools for completing different task goals. An efficient and informative representation would facilitate the effectiveness and generalization of such algorithms. For this purpose, we present KETO, a framework of learning keypoint representations of tool-based manipulation. For each task, a set of task-specific keypoints is jointly predicted from 3D point clouds of the tool object by a deep neural network. These keypoints offer a concise and informative description of the object to determine grasps and subsequent manipulation actions. The model is learned from self-supervised robot interactions in the task environment without the need for explicit human annotations. We evaluate our framework in three manipulation tasks with tool use. Our model consistently outperforms state-of-the-art methods in terms of task success rates. Qualitative results of keypoint prediction and tool generation are shown to visualize the learned representations.


Title: Learning to See before Learning to Act: Visual Pre-training for Manipulation
Abstract: Does having visual priors (e.g. the ability to detect objects) facilitate learning to perform vision-based manipulation (e.g. picking up objects)? We study this problem under the framework of transfer learning, where the model is first trained on a passive vision task (i.e., the data distribution does not depend on the agent's decisions), then adapted to perform an active manipulation task (i.e., the data distribution does depend on the agent's decisions). We find that pre-training on vision tasks significantly improves generalization and sample efficiency for learning to manipulate objects. However, realizing these gains requires careful selection of which parts of the model to transfer. Our key insight is that outputs of standard vision models highly correlate with affordance maps commonly used in manipulation. Therefore, we explore directly transferring model parameters from vision networks to affordance prediction networks, and show that this can result in successful zero-shot adaptation, where a robot can pick up certain objects with zero robotic experience. With just a small amount of robotic experience, we can further fine-tune the affordance model to achieve better results. With just 10 minutes of suction experience or 1 hour of grasping experience, our method achieves ~ 80% success rate at picking up novel objects.


Title: Autonomously Navigating a Surgical Tool Inside the Eye by Learning from Demonstration
Abstract: A fundamental challenge in retinal surgery is safely navigating a surgical tool to a desired goal position on the retinal surface while avoiding damage to surrounding tissues, a procedure that typically requires tens-of-microns accuracy. In practice, the surgeon relies on depth-estimation skills to localize the tool-tip with respect to the retina in order to perform the tool-navigation task, which can be prone to human error. To alleviate such uncertainty, prior work has introduced ways to assist the surgeon by estimating the tooltip distance to the retina and providing haptic or auditory feedback. However, automating the tool-navigation task itself remains unsolved and largely unexplored. Such a capability, if reliably automated, could serve as a building block to streamline complex procedures and reduce the chance for tissue damage. Towards this end, we propose to automate the tool-navigation task by learning to mimic expert demonstrations of the task. Specifically, a deep network is trained to imitate expert trajectories toward various locations on the retina based on recorded visual servoing to a given goal specified by the user. The proposed autonomous navigation system is evaluated in simulation and in physical experiments using a silicone eye phantom. We show that the network can reliably navigate a needle surgical tool to various desired locations within 137 μm accuracy in physical experiments and 94 μm in simulation on average, and generalizes well to unseen situations such as in the presence of auxiliary surgical tools, variable eye backgrounds, and brightness conditions.


Title: Learn-to-Recover: Retrofitting UAVs with Reinforcement Learning-Assisted Flight Control Under Cyber-Physical Attacks
Abstract: In this paper, we present a generic fault-tolerant control (FTC) strategy via reinforcement learning (RL). We demonstrate the effectiveness of this method on quadcopter unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs). The fault-tolerant control policy is trained to handle actuator and sensor fault/attack. Unlike traditional FTC, this policy does not require fault detection and diagnosis (FDD) nor tailoring the controller for specific attack scenarios. Instead, the policy is running simultaneously alongside the stabilizing controller without the need for on- detection activation. The effectiveness of the policy is compared with traditional active and passive FTC strategies against actuator and sensor faults. We compare their performance in position control tasks via simulation and experiments on quadcopters. The result shows that the strategy can effectively tolerate different types of attacks/faults and maintain the vehicle's position, outperforming the other two methods.


Title: Towards the Probabilistic Fusion of Learned Priors into Standard Pipelines for 3D Reconstruction
Abstract: The best way to combine the results of deep learning with standard 3D reconstruction pipelines remains an open problem. While systems that pass the output of traditional multi-view stereo approaches to a network for regularisation or refinement currently seem to get the best results, it may be preferable to treat deep neural networks as separate components whose results can be probabilistically fused into geometry- based systems. Unfortunately, the error models required to do this type of fusion are not well understood, with many different approaches being put forward. Recently, a few systems have achieved good results by having their networks predict probability distributions rather than single values. We propose using this approach to fuse a learned single-view depth prior into a standard 3D reconstruction system. Our system is capable of incrementally producing dense depth maps for a set of keyframes. We train a deep neural network to predict discrete, nonparametric probability distributions for the depth of each pixel from a single image. We then fuse this "probability volume" with another probability volume based on the photometric consistency between subsequent frames and the keyframe image. We argue that combining the probability volumes from these two sources will result in a volume that is better conditioned. To extract depth maps from the volume, we minimise a cost function that includes a regularisation term based on network predicted surface normals and occlusion boundaries. Through a series of experiments, we demonstrate that each of these components improves the overall performance of the system.


Title: On Simple Reactive Neural Networks for Behaviour-Based Reinforcement Learning
Abstract: We present a behaviour-based reinforcement learning approach, inspired by Brook's subsumption architecture, in which simple fully connected networks are trained as reactive behaviours. Our working assumption is that a pick and place robotic task can be simplified by leveraging domain knowledge of a robotics developer to decompose and train reactive behaviours; namely, approach, grasp, and retract. Then the robot autonomously learns how to combine reactive behaviours via an Actor-Critic architecture. We use an Actor-Critic policy to determine the activation and inhibition mechanisms of the reactive behaviours in a particular temporal sequence. We validate our approach in a simulated robot environment where the task is about picking a block and taking it to a target position while orienting the gripper from a top grasp. The latter represents an extra degree-of-freedom of which current end-to-end reinforcement learning approaches fail to generalise. Our findings suggest that robotic learning can be more effective if each behaviour is learnt in isolation and then combined them to accomplish the task. That is, our approach learns the pick and place task in 8,000 episodes, which represents a drastic reduction in the number of training episodes required by an end-to-end approach ( 95,000 episodes) and existing state-of-the-art algorithms.


Title: Predicting optimal value functions by interpolating reward functions in scalarized multi-objective reinforcement learning
Abstract: A common approach for defining a reward function for multi-objective reinforcement learning (MORL) problems is the weighted sum of the multiple objectives. The weights are then treated as design parameters dependent on the expertise (and preference) of the person performing the learning, with the typical result that a new solution is required for any change in these settings. This paper investigates the relationship between the reward function and the optimal value function for MORL; specifically addressing the question of how to approximate the optimal value function well beyond the set of weights for which the optimization problem was actually solved, thereby avoiding the need to recompute for any particular choice. We prove that the value function transforms smoothly given a transformation of weights of the reward function (and thus a smooth interpolation in the policy space). A Gaussian process is used to obtain a smooth interpolation over the reward function weights of the optimal value function for three well-known examples: Gridworld, Objectworld and Pendulum. The results show that the interpolation can provide robust values for sample states and actions in both discrete and continuous domain problems. Significant advantages arise from utilizing this interpolation technique in the domain of autonomous vehicles: easy, instant adaptation of user preferences while driving and true randomization of obstacle vehicle behavior preferences during training.


Title: Integrated moment-based LGMD and deep reinforcement learning for UAV obstacle avoidance
Abstract: In this paper, a bio-inspired monocular vision perception method combined with a learning-based reaction local planner for obstacle avoidance of micro UAVs is presented. The system is more computationally efficient than other vision-based perception and navigation methods such as SLAM and optical flow because it does not need to calculate accurate distances. To improve the robustness of perception against illuminance change, the input image is remapped using image moment which is independent of illuminance variation. After perception, a local planner is trained using deep reinforcement learning for mapless navigation. The proposed perception and navigation methods are evaluated in some realistic simulation environments. The result shows that this light-weight monocular perception and navigation system works well in different complex environments without accurate depth information.


Title: Interactive Reinforcement Learning with Inaccurate Feedback
Abstract: Interactive Reinforcement Learning (RL) enables agents to learn from two sources: rewards taken from observations of the environment, and feedback or advice from a secondary critic source, such as human teachers or sensor feedback. The addition of information from a critic during the learning process allows the agents to learn more quickly than non-interactive RL. There are many methods that allow policy feedback or advice to be combined with RL. However, critics can often give imperfect information. In this work, we introduce a framework for characterizing Interactive RL methods with imperfect teachers and propose an algorithm, Revision Estimation from Partially Incorrect Resources (REPaIR), which can estimate corrections to imperfect feedback over time. We run experiments both in simulations and demonstrate performance on a physical robot, and find that when baseline algorithms do not have prior information on the exact quality of a feedback source, using REPaIR matches or improves the expected performance of these algorithms.


Title: Guided Uncertainty-Aware Policy Optimization: Combining Learning and Model-Based Strategies for Sample-Efficient Policy Learning
Abstract: Traditional robotic approaches rely on an accurate model of the environment, a detailed description of how to perform the task, and a robust perception system to keep track of the current state. On the other hand, reinforcement learning approaches can operate directly from raw sensory inputs with only a reward signal to describe the task, but are extremely sampleinefficient and brittle. In this work, we combine the strengths of model-based methods with the flexibility of learning-based methods to obtain a general method that is able to overcome inaccuracies in the robotics perception/actuation pipeline, while requiring minimal interactions with the environment. This is achieved by leveraging uncertainty estimates to divide the space in regions where the given model-based policy is reliable, and regions where it may have flaws or not be well defined. In these uncertain regions, we show that a locally learned-policy can be used directly with raw sensory inputs. We test our algorithm, Guided Uncertainty-Aware Policy Optimization (GUAPO), on a real-world robot performing peg insertion. Videos are available at: https://sites.google.com/view/guapo-rl.


Title: Benchmark for Skill Learning from Demonstration: Impact of User Experience, Task Complexity, and Start Configuration on Performance
Abstract: We contribute a study benchmarking the performance of multiple motion-based learning from demonstration approaches. Given the number and diversity of existing methods, it is critical that comprehensive empirical studies be performed comparing the relative strengths of these techniques. In particular, we evaluate four approaches based on properties an end user may desire for real-world tasks. To perform this evaluation, we collected data from nine participants, across four manipulation tasks. The resulting demonstrations were used to train 180 task models and evaluated on 720 task reproductions on a physical robot. Our results detail how i) complexity of the task, ii) the expertise of the human demonstrator, and iii) the starting configuration of the robot affect task performance. The collected dataset of demonstrations, robot executions, and evaluations are publicly available. Research insights and guidelines are also provided to guide future research and deployment choices about these approaches.


Title: Robot Programming without Coding
Abstract: An approach toward intuitive and easy robot programming, consists to transfer skills from humans to machines, through demonstration. A vast literature exists on learning from multiple demonstrations. This paper, on the other hand, tackles the problem of providing all needed information to execute a certain task by resorting to one single demonstration - hence, a problem closer to programming than to learning. We use wearable consumer devices - but no keyboard nor coding - as programming tools, to let the programmer tele-operate the robot, which in turn records the most salient features and affordances from the object, environment, robot, and human. To enable this goal we combine off-the-shelf soft-articulated robotic components with the framework of Dynamic Movement Primitives, which we contribute to extend to generalize human trajectories and impedance regulation skills. This framework enables to teach robot quickly and in a intuitive way without coding. Experimental tests have been performed on a dual-arm system composed by two 7-dofs collaborative robots equipped with anthropomorphic end-effectors. Experiments show the functionality of the framework and verify the effectiveness of the impedance extension.


Title: Predictive Modeling of Periodic Behavior for Human-Robot Symbiotic Walking
Abstract: We propose in this paper Periodic Interaction Primitives - a probabilistic framework that can be used to learn compact models of periodic behavior. Our approach extends existing formulations of Interaction Primitives to periodic movement regimes, i.e., walking. We show that this model is particularly well-suited for learning data-driven, customized models of human walking, which can then be used for generating predictions over future states or for inferring latent, biomechanical variables. We also demonstrate how the same framework can be used to learn controllers for a robotic prosthesis using an imitation learning approach. Results in experiments with human participants indicate that Periodic Interaction Primitives efficiently generate predictions and ankle angle control signals for a robotic prosthetic ankle, with MAE of 2.21° in 0.0008s per inference. Performance degrades gracefully in the presence of noise or sensor fall outs. Compared to alternatives, this algorithm functions 20 times faster and performed 4.5 times more accurately on test subjects.


Title: Inferring the Geometric Nullspace of Robot Skills from Human Demonstrations
Abstract: In this paper we present a framework to learn skills from human demonstrations in the form of geometric nullspaces, which can be executed using a robot. We collect data of human demonstrations, fit geometric nullspaces to them, and also infer their corresponding geometric constraint models. These geometric constraints provide a powerful mathematical model as well as an intuitive representation of the skill in terms of the involved objects. To execute the skill using a robot, we combine this geometric skill description with the robot's kinematics and other environmental constraints, from which poses can be sampled for the robot's execution. The result of our framework is a system that takes the human demonstrations as input, learns the underlying skill model, and executes the learnt skill with different robots in different dynamic environments. We evaluate our approach on a simulated industrial robot, and execute the final task on the iCub humanoid robot.


Title: A Dynamical System Approach for Adaptive Grasping, Navigation and Co-Manipulation with Humanoid Robots
Abstract: We present an integrated approach that provides compliant control of an iCub humanoid robot and adaptive reaching, grasping, navigating and co-manipulating capabilities. We use state-dependent dynamical systems (DS) to (i) coordinate and drive the robots hands (in both position and orientation) to grasp an object using an intermediate virtual object, and (ii) drive the robot's base while walking/navigating. The use of DS as motion generators allows us to adapt smoothly as the object moves and to re-plan on-line motion of the arms and body to reach the object's new location. The desired motion generated by the DS are used in combination with a whole-body compliant control strategy that absorbs perturbations while walking and offers compliant behaviors for grasping and manipulation tasks. Further, the desired dynamics for the arm and body can be learned from demonstrations. By integrating these components, we achieve unprecedented adaptive behaviors for whole body manipulation. We showcase this in simulations and real-world experiments where iCub robots (i) walk-to-grasp objects, (ii) follow a human (or another iCub) through interaction and (iii) learn to navigate or comanipulate an object from human guided demonstrations; whilst being robust to changing targets and perturbations.


Title: Learning Robotic Assembly Tasks with Lower Dimensional Systems by Leveraging Physical Softness and Environmental Constraints
Abstract: In this study, we present a novel control framework for assembly tasks with a soft robot. Typically, existing hard robots require high frequency controllers and precise force/torque sensors for assembly tasks. The resulting robot system is complex, entailing large amounts of engineering and maintenance. Physical softness allows the robot to interact with the environment easily. We expect soft robots to perform assembly tasks without the need for high frequency force/torque controllers and sensors. However, specific data-driven approaches are needed to deal with complex models involving nonlinearity and hysteresis. If we were to apply these approaches directly, we would be required to collect very large amounts of training data. To solve this problem, we argue that by leveraging softness and environmental constraints, a robot can complete tasks in lower dimensional state and action spaces, which could greatly facilitate the exploration of appropriate assembly skills. Then, we apply a highly efficient model-based reinforcement learning method to lower dimensional systems. To verify our method, we perform a simulation for peg-in-hole tasks. The results show that our method learns the appropriate skills faster than an approach that does not consider lower dimensional systems. Moreover, we demonstrate that our method works on a real robot equipped with a compliant module on the wrist.


Title: Titan: A Parallel Asynchronous Library for Multi-Agent and Soft-Body Robotics using NVIDIA CUDA
Abstract: While most robotics simulation libraries are built for low-dimensional and intrinsically serial tasks, soft-body and multi-agent robotics have created a demand for simulation environments that can model many interacting bodies in parallel. Despite the increasing interest in these fields, no existing simulation library addresses the challenge of providing a unified, highly-parallelized, GPU-accelerated interface for simulating large robotic systems. Titan is a versatile CUDA-based C++ robotics simulation library that employs a novel asynchronous computing model for GPU-accelerated simulations of robotics primitives. The innovative GPU architecture design permits simultaneous optimization and control on the CPU while the GPU runs asynchronously, enabling rapid topology optimization and reinforcement learning iterations. Kinematics are solved with a massively parallel integration scheme that incorporates constraints and environmental forces. We report dramatically improved performance over CPU baselines, simulating as many as 300 million primitive updates per second, while allowing flexibility for a wide range of research applications. We present several applications of Titan to high-performance simulations of soft-body and multi-agent robots.


Title: Motion Planning with Competency-Aware Transition Models for Underactuated Adaptive Hands
Abstract: Underactuated adaptive hands simplify grasping tasks but it is difficult to model their interactions with objects during in-hand manipulation. Learned data-driven models have been recently shown to be efficient in motion planning and control of such hands. Still, the accuracy of the models is limited even with the addition of more data. This becomes important for long horizon predictions, where errors are accumulated along the length of a path. Instead of throwing more data into learning the transition model, this work proposes to rather invest a portion of the training data in a critic model. The critic is trained to estimate the error of the transition model given a state and a sequence of future actions, along with information of past actions. The critic is used to reformulate the cost function of an asymptotically optimal motion planner. Given the critic, the planner directs planned paths to less erroneous regions in the state space. The approach is evaluated against standard motion planning on simulated and real hands. The results show that it outperforms an alternative where all the available data is used for training the transition model without a critic.


Title: Long-Horizon Prediction and Uncertainty Propagation with Residual Point Contact Learners
Abstract: The ability to simulate and predict the outcome of contacts is paramount to the successful execution of many robotic tasks. Simulators are powerful tools for the design of robots and their behaviors, yet the discrepancy between their predictions and observed data limit their usability. In this paper, we propose a self-supervised approach to learning residual models for rigid-body simulators that exploits corrections of contact models to refine predictive performance and propagate uncertainty. We empirically evaluate the framework by predicting the outcomes of planar dice rolls and compare it's performance to state-of-the-art techniques.


Title: Active Acoustic Contact Sensing for Soft Pneumatic Actuators
Abstract: We present an active acoustic sensor that turns soft pneumatic actuators into contact sensors. The whole surface of the actuator becomes a sensor, rendering the question of where best to place a contact sensor unnecessary. At the same time, the compliance of the soft actuator remains unaffected. A small, embedded speaker emits a frequency sweep which travels through the actuator before it is recorded with an embedded microphone. The specific contact state of the actuator affects how the sound is modulated while traversing the structure. We learn to recognize these changes in the sound and map them to the corresponding contact locations. We demonstrate the method on the PneuFlex actuator. The active acoustic sensor achieves a classification rate of 93% and mean regression error of 3.7mm. It is robust against background noises and different objects. Finally, we test it on a Panda robot arm and show that it is unaffected by motor noises and other active sensors.


Title: Simultaneous Learning from Human Pose and Object Cues for Real-Time Activity Recognition
Abstract: Real-time human activity recognition plays an essential role in real-world human-centered robotics applications, such as assisted living and human-robot collaboration. Although previous methods based on skeletal data to encode human poses showed promising results on real-time activity recognition, they lacked the capability to consider the context provided by objects within the scene and in use by the humans, which can provide a further discriminant between human activity categories. In this paper, we propose a novel approach to real-time human activity recognition, through simultaneously learning from observations of both human poses and objects involved in the human activity. We formulate human activity recognition as a joint optimization problem under a unified mathematical framework, which uses a regression-like loss function to integrate human pose and object cues and defines structured sparsity-inducing norms to identify discriminative body joints and object attributes. To evaluate our method, we perform extensive experiments on two benchmark datasets and a physical robot in a home assistance setting. Experimental results have shown that our method outperforms previous methods and obtains real-time performance for human activity recognition with a processing speed of 104 Hz.


Title: Demonstration of Hospital Receptionist Robot with Extended Hybrid Code Network to Select Responses and Gestures
Abstract: Task-oriented dialogue system has a vital role in Human-Robot Interaction (HRI). However, it has been developed based on conventional pipeline approach which has several drawbacks; expensive, time-consuming, and so on. Based on this approach, developers manually define a robot's behaviour such as gestures and facial expressions on the corresponding dialogue states. Recently, end-to-end learning of Recurrent Neural Networks (RNNs) is an attractive solution for the dialogue system. In this paper, we proposed a social robot system using end-to-end dialogue system in the context of hospital receptionist. We utilized Hybrid Code Network (HCN) as an end-to-end dialogue system and extended to select both response and gesture using RNN based gesture selector. We evaluate its performance with human users and compare the results with one of the conventional methods. Empirical result shows that the proposed method has benefits in terms of dialogue efficiency, which indicates how efficient users were in performing the given tasks with the help of the robot. Moreover, we achieved the same performance regarding the robot's gesture with the proposed method compared to manually defined gestures.


Title: Can I Trust You? A User Study of Robot Mediation of a Support Group
Abstract: Socially assistive robots have the potential to improve group dynamics when interacting with groups of people in social settings. This work contributes to the understanding of those dynamics through a user study of trust dynamics in the novel context of a robot mediated support group. For this study, a novel framework for robot mediation of a support group was developed and validated. To evaluate interpersonal trust in the multi-party setting, a dyadic trust scale was implemented and found to be uni-factorial, validating it as an appropriate measure of general trust. The results of this study demonstrate a significant increase in average interpersonal trust after the group interaction session, and qualitative post-session interview data report that participants found the interaction helpful and successfully supported and learned from one other. The results of the study validate that a robot-mediated support group can improve trust among strangers and allow them to share and receive support for their academic stress.


Title: A Real-Robot Dataset for Assessing Transferability of Learned Dynamics Models
Abstract: In the context of model-based reinforcement learning and control, a large number of methods for learning system dynamics have been proposed in recent years. The purpose of these learned models is to synthesize new control policies. An important open question is how robust current dynamics-learning methods are to shifts in the data distribution due to changes in the control policy. We present a real-robot dataset which allows to systematically investigate this question. This dataset contains trajectories of a 3 degrees-of-freedom (DOF) robot being controlled by a diverse set of policies. For comparison, we also provide a simulated version of the dataset. Finally, we benchmark a few widely-used dynamics-learning methods using the proposed dataset. Our results show that the iid test error of a learned model is not necessarily a good indicator of its accuracy under control policies different from the one which generated the training data. This suggests that it may be important to evaluate dynamics-learning methods in terms of their transfer performance, rather than only their iid error.


Title: MagNet: Discovering Multi-agent Interaction Dynamics using Neural Network
Abstract: We present the MagNet, a neural network-based multi-agent interaction model to discover the governing dynamics and predict evolution of a complex multi-agent system from observations. We formulate a multi-agent system as a coupled non-linear network with a generic ordinary differential equation (ODE) based state evolution, and develop a neural network-based realization of its time-discretized model. MagNet is trained to discover the core dynamics of a multi-agent system from observations, and tuned on-line to learn agent-specific parameters of the dynamics to ensure accurate prediction even when physical or relational attributes of agents, or number of agents change. We evaluate MagNet on a point-mass system in two-dimensional space, Kuramoto phase synchronization dynamics and predator-swarm interaction dynamics demonstrating orders of magnitude improvement in prediction accuracy over traditional deep learning models.


Title: Development of a Robotic System for Automated Decaking of 3D-Printed Parts
Abstract: With the rapid rise of 3D-printing as a competitive mass manufacturing method, manual "decaking" - i.e. removing the residual powder that sticks to a 3D-printed part - has become a significant bottleneck. Here, we introduce, for the first time to our knowledge, a robotic system for automated decaking of 3D-printed parts. Combining Deep Learning for 3D perception, smart mechanical design, motion planning, and force control for industrial robots, we developed a system that can automatically decake parts in a fast and efficient way. Through a series of decaking experiments performed on parts printed by a Multi Jet Fusion printer, we demonstrated the feasibility of robotic decaking for 3D-printing-based mass manufacturing.


Title: LyRN (Lyapunov Reaching Network): A Real-Time Closed Loop approach from Monocular Vision
Abstract: We propose a closed-loop, multi-instance control algorithm for visually guided reaching based on novel learning principles. A control Lyapunov function methodology is used to design a reaching action for a complex multi-instance task in the case where full state information (poses of all potential reaching points) is available. The proposed algorithm uses monocular vision and manipulator joint angles as the input to a deep convolution neural network to predict the value of the control Lyapunov function (cLf) and corresponding velocity control. The resulting network output is used in real-time as visual control for the grasping task with the multi-instance capability emerging naturally from the design of the control Lyapunov function. We demonstrate the proposed algorithm grasping mugs (textureless and symmetric objects) on a table-top from an over-the-shoulder monocular RGB camera. The manipulator dynamically converges to the best-suited target among multiple identical instances from any random initial pose within the workspace. The system trained with only simulated data is able to achieve 90.3% grasp success rate in the real-world experiments with up to 85Hz closed-loop control on one GTX 1080Ti GPU and significantly outperforms a Pose-Based-Visual-Servo (PBVS) grasping system adapted from a state-of-the-art single shot RGB 6D pose estimation algorithm. A key contribution of the paper is the inclusion of a first-order differential constraint associated with the cLf as a regularisation term during learning, and we provide evidence that this leads to more robust and reliable reaching/grasping performance than vanilla regression on general control inputs.


Title: Object Finding in Cluttered Scenes Using Interactive Perception
Abstract: Object finding in clutter is a skill that requires perception of the environment and in many cases physical interaction. In robotics, interactive perception defines a set of algorithms that leverage actions to improve the perception of the environment, and vice versa use perception to guide the next action. Scene interactions are difficult to model, therefore, most of the current systems use predefined heuristics. This limits their ability to efficiently search for the target object in a complex environment. In order to remove heuristics and the need for explicit models of the interactions, in this work we propose a reinforcement learning based active and interactive perception system for scene exploration and object search. We evaluate our work both in simulated and in real-world experiments using a robotic manipulator equipped with an RGB and a depth camera, and compare our system to two baselines. The results indicate that our approach, trained in simulation only, transfers smoothly to reality and can solve the object finding task efficiently and with more than 88% success rate.


Title: CCAN: Constraint Co-Attention Network for Instance Grasping
Abstract: Instance grasping is a challenging robotic grasping task when a robot aims to grasp a specified target object in cluttered scenes. In this paper, we propose a novel end-to-end instance grasping method using only monocular workspace and query images, where the workspace image includes several objects and the query image only contains the target object. To effectively extract discriminative features and facilitate the training process, a learning-based method, referred to as Constraint Co-Attention Network (CCAN), is proposed which consists of a constraint co-attention module and a grasp affordance predictor. An effective co-attention module is presented to construct the features of a workspace image from the extracted features of the query image. By introducing soft constraints into the co-attention module, it highlights the target object's features while trivializes other objects' features in the workspace image. Using the features extracted from the co-attention module, the cascaded grasp affordance interpreter network only predicts the grasp configuration for the target object. The training of the CCAN is totally based on simulated self-supervision. Extensive qualitative and quantitative experiments show the effectiveness of our method both in simulated and real-world environments even for totally unseen objects.


Title: 3D Object Detection and Tracking Based on Streaming Data
Abstract: Recent approaches for 3D object detection have made tremendous progresses due to the development of deep learning. However, previous researches are mostly based on individual frames, leading to limited exploitation of information between frames. In this paper, we attempt to leverage the temporal information in streaming data and explore 3D streaming based object detection as well as tracking. Toward this goal, we set up a dual-way network for 3D object detection based on keyframes, and then propagate predictions to non-key frames through a motion based interpolation algorithm guided by temporal information. Our framework is not only shown to have significant improvements on object detection compared with frame-by-frame paradigm, but also proven to produce competitive results on KITTI Object Tracking Benchmark, with 76.68% in MOTA and 81.65% in MOTP respectively.


Title: Learning 3D-aware Egocentric Spatial-Temporal Interaction via Graph Convolutional Networks
Abstract: To enable intelligent automated driving systems, a promising strategy is to understand how human drives and interacts with road users in complicated driving situations. In this paper, we propose a 3D-aware egocentric spatial-temporal interaction framework for automated driving applications. Graph convolution networks (GCN) is devised for interaction modeling. We introduce three novel concepts into GCN. First, we decompose egocentric interactions into ego-thing and ego- stuff interaction, modeled by two GCNs. In both GCNs, ego nodes are introduced to encode the interaction between thing objects (e.g., car and pedestrian), and interaction between stuff objects (e.g., lane marking and traffic light). Second, objects' 3D locations are explicitly incorporated into GCN to better model egocentric interactions. Third, to implement ego-stuff interaction in GCN, we propose a MaskAlign operation to extract features for irregular objects.We validate the proposed framework on tactical driver behavior recognition. Extensive experiments are conducted using Honda Research Institute Driving Dataset, the largest dataset with diverse tactical driver behavior annotations. Our framework demonstrates substantial performance boost over baselines on the two experimental settings by 3.9% and 6.0%, respectively. Furthermore, we visualize the learned affinity matrices, which encode ego-thing and ego-stuff interactions, to showcase the proposed framework can capture interactions effectively.


Title: C-3PO: Cyclic-Three-Phase Optimization for Human-Robot Motion Retargeting based on Reinforcement Learning
Abstract: Motion retargeting between heterogeneous polymorphs with different sizes and kinematic configurations requires a comprehensive knowledge of (inverse) kinematics. Moreover, it is non-trivial to provide a kinematic independent general solution. In this study, we developed a cyclic three-phase optimization method based on deep reinforcement learning for human-robot motion retargeting. The motion retargeting learning is performed using refined data in a latent space by the cyclic and filtering paths of our method. In addition, the human- in-the-loop based three-phase approach provides a framework for the improvement of the motion retargeting policy by both quantitative and qualitative manners. Using the proposed C- 3PO method, we were successfully able to learn the motion retargeting skill between the human skeleton and motion of the multiple robots such as NAO, Pepper, Baxter and C-3PO.


Title: AP-MTL: Attention Pruned Multi-task Learning Model for Real-time Instrument Detection and Segmentation in Robot-assisted Surgery
Abstract: Surgical scene understanding and multi-tasking learning are crucial for image-guided robotic surgery. Training a real-time robotic system for the detection and segmentation of high-resolution images provides a challenging problem with the limited computational resource. The perception drawn can be applied in effective real-time feedback, surgical skill assessment, and human-robot collaborative surgeries to enhance surgical outcomes. For this purpose, we develop a novel end-to-end trainable real-time Multi-Task Learning (MTL) model with weight-shared encoder and task-aware detection and segmentation decoders. Optimization of multiple tasks at the same convergence point is vital and presents a complex problem. Thus, we propose an asynchronous task-aware optimization (ATO) technique to calculate task-oriented gradients and train the decoders independently. Moreover, MTL models are always computationally expensive, which hinder real-time applications. To address this challenge, we introduce a global attention dynamic pruning (GADP) by removing less significant and sparse parameters. We further design a skip squeeze and excitation (SE) module, which suppresses weak features, excites significant features and performs dynamic spatial and channel-wise feature re-calibration. Validating on the robotic instrument segmentation dataset of MICCAI endoscopic vision challenge, our model significantly outperforms state-of-the-art segmentation and detection models, including best-performed models in the challenge.


Title: Automatic Gesture Recognition in Robot-assisted Surgery with Reinforcement Learning and Tree Search
Abstract: Automatic surgical gesture recognition is fundamental for improving intelligence in robot-assisted surgery, such as conducting complicated tasks of surgery surveillance and skill evaluation. However, current methods treat each frame individually and produce the outcomes without effective consideration on future information. In this paper, we propose a framework based on reinforcement learning and tree search for joint surgical gesture segmentation and classification. An agent is trained to segment and classify the surgical video in a human-like manner whose direct decisions are re-considered by tree search appropriately. Our proposed tree search algorithm unites the outputs from two designed neural networks, i.e., policy and value network. With the integration of complementary information from distinct models, our framework is able to achieve the better performance than baseline methods using either of the neural networks. For an overall evaluation, our developed approach consistently outperforms the existing methods on the suturing task of JIGSAWS dataset in terms of accuracy, edit score and F1 score. Our study highlights the utilization of tree search to refine actions in reinforcement learning framework for surgical robotic applications.


Title: ACNN: a Full Resolution DCNN for Medical Image Segmentation
Abstract: Deep Convolutional Neural Networks (DCNNs) are used extensively in medical image segmentation and hence 3D navigation for robot-assisted Minimally Invasive Surgeries (MISs). However, current DCNNs usually use down sampling layers for increasing the receptive field and gaining abstract semantic information. These down sampling layers decrease the spatial dimension of feature maps, which can be detrimental to image segmentation. Atrous convolution is an alternative for the down sampling layer. It increases the receptive field whilst maintains the spatial dimension of feature maps. In this paper, a method for effective atrous rate setting is proposed to achieve the largest and fully-covered receptive field with a minimum number of atrous convolutional layers. Furthermore, a new and full resolution DCNN - Atrous Convolutional Neural Network (ACNN), which incorporates cascaded atrous II-blocks, residual learning and Instance Normalization (IN) is proposed. Application results of the proposed ACNN to Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) and Computed Tomography (CT) image segmentation demonstrate that the proposed ACNN can achieve higher segmentation Intersection over Unions (IoUs) than U-Net and Deeplabv3+, but with reduced trainable parameters.


Title: Deep Imitative Reinforcement Learning for Temporal Logic Robot Motion Planning with Noisy Semantic Observations
Abstract: In this paper, we propose a Deep Imitative Q-learning (DIQL) method to synthesize control policies for mobile robots that need to satisfy Linear Temporal Logic (LTL) specifications using noisy semantic observations of their surroundings. The robot sensing error is modeled using probabilistic labels defined over the states of a Labeled Transition System (LTS) and the robot mobility is modeled using a Labeled Markov Decision Process (LMDP) with unknown transition probabilities. We use existing product-based model checkers (PMCs) as experts to guide the Q-learning algorithm to convergence. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first approach that models noise in semantic observations using probabilistic labeling functions and employs existing model checkers to provide suboptimal instructions to the Q-learning agent.


Title: Probabilistic TSDF Fusion Using Bayesian Deep Learning for Dense 3D Reconstruction with a Single RGB Camera
Abstract: In this paper, we address a 3D reconstruction problem using depth prediction from a single RGB image. With the recent advances in deep learning, depth prediction shows high performance. However, due to the discrepancy between training environment and test environment, 3D reconstruction can be vulnerable to the uncertainty of depth prediction. To consider the uncertainty of depth prediction for robust 3D reconstruction, we adopt Bayesian deep learning framework. Conventional Bayesian deep learning requires a large amount of time and GPU memory to perform Monte Carlo sampling. To address this problem, we propose a lightweight Bayesian neural network consisting of U-net structure and summation-based skip connections, which is performed in real-time. Estimated uncertainty is utilized in probabilistic TSDF fusion for dense 3D reconstruction by maximizing the posterior of TSDF value per voxel. As a result, global TSDF robust to erroneous depth values can be obtained and then dense 3D reconstruction from the global TSDF is achievable more accurately. To evaluate the performance of depth prediction and 3D reconstruction using our method, we utilized two official datasets and demonstrated the outperformance of the proposed method over other conventional methods.


Title: IF-Net: An Illumination-invariant Feature Network
Abstract: Feature descriptor matching is a critical step is many computer vision applications such as image stitching, image retrieval and visual localization. However, it is often affected by many practical factors which will degrade its performance. Among these factors, illumination variations are the most influential one, and especially no previous descriptor learning works focus on dealing with this problem. In this paper, we propose IF-Net, aimed to generate a robust and generic descriptor under crucial illumination changes conditions. We find out not only the kind of training data important but also the order it is presented. To this end, we investigate several dataset scheduling methods and propose a separation training scheme to improve the matching accuracy. Further, we propose a ROI loss and hard-positive mining strategy along with the training scheme, which can strengthen the ability of generated descriptor dealing with large illumination change conditions. We evaluate our approach on public patch matching benchmark and achieve the best results compared with several state-of-the-arts methods. To show the practicality, we further evaluate IF-Net on the task of visual localization under large illumination changes scenes, and achieves the best localization accuracy.


Title: Deep-Learning Assisted High-Resolution Binocular Stereo Depth Reconstruction
Abstract: This work presents dense stereo reconstruction using high-resolution images for infrastructure inspections. The state-of-the-art stereo reconstruction methods, both learning and non-learning ones, consume too much computational resource on high-resolution data. Recent learning-based methods achieve top ranks on most benchmarks. However, they suffer from the generalization issue due to lack of task-specific training data. We propose to use a less resource demanding non-learning method, guided by a learning-based model, to handle high-resolution images and achieve accurate stereo reconstruction. The deep-learning model produces an initial disparity prediction with uncertainty for each pixel of the down-sampled stereo image pair. The uncertainty serves as a self-measurement of its generalization ability and the perpixel searching range around the initially predicted disparity. The downstream process performs a modified version of the Semi-Global Block Matching method with the up-sampled perpixel searching range. The proposed deep-learning assisted method is evaluated on the Middlebury dataset and high-resolution stereo images collected by our customized binocular stereo camera. The combination of learning and non-learning methods achieves better performance on 12 out of 15 cases of the Middlebury dataset. In our infrastructure inspection experiments, the average 3D reconstruction error is less than 0.004m.


Title: Hybrid Zero Dynamics Inspired Feedback Control Policy Design for 3D Bipedal Locomotion using Reinforcement Learning
Abstract: This paper presents a novel model-free reinforcement learning (RL) framework to design feedback control policies for 3D bipedal walking. Existing RL algorithms are often trained in an end-to-end manner or rely on prior knowledge of some reference joint trajectories. Different from these studies, we propose a novel policy structure that appropriately incorporates physical insights gained from the hybrid nature of the walking dynamics and the well-established hybrid zero dynamics approach for 3D bipedal walking. As a result, the overall RL framework has several key advantages, including lightweight network structure, short training time, and less dependence on prior knowledge. We demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed method on Cassie, a challenging 3D bipedal robot. The proposed solution produces stable limit walking cycles that can track various walking speed in different directions. Surprisingly, without specifically trained with disturbances to achieve robustness, it also performs robustly against various adversarial forces applied to the torso towards both the forward and the backward directions.


Title: In-Hand Manipulation of Objects with Unknown Shapes
Abstract: This work addresses the problem of changing grasp configurations on objects with an unknown shape through in-hand manipulation. Our approach leverages shape priors, learned as deep generative models, to infer novel object shapes from partial visual sensing. The Dexterous Manipulation Graph method is extended to build incrementally and account for object shape uncertainty when planning a sequence of manipulation actions. We show that our approach successfully solves in-hand manipulation tasks with unknown objects, and demonstrate the validity of these solutions with robot experiments.


Title: Learning Hierarchical Control for Robust In-Hand Manipulation
Abstract: Robotic in-hand manipulation has been a longstanding challenge due to the complexity of modelling hand and object in contact and of coordinating finger motion for complex manipulation sequences. To address these challenges, the majority of prior work has either focused on model-based, low-level controllers or on model-free deep reinforcement learning that each have their own limitations. We propose a hierarchical method that relies on traditional, model-based controllers on the low-level and learned policies on the mid-level. The low-level controllers can robustly execute different manipulation primitives (reposing, sliding, flipping). The mid-level policy orchestrates these primitives. We extensively evaluate our approach in simulation with a 3-fingered hand that controls three degrees of freedom of elongated objects. We show that our approach can move objects between almost all the possible poses in the workspace while keeping them firmly grasped. We also show that our approach is robust to inaccuracies in the object models and to observation noise. Finally, we show how our approach generalizes to objects of other shapes.


Title: Monocular Visual Odometry using Learned Repeatability and Description
Abstract: Robustness and accuracy for monocular visual odometry (VO) under challenging environments are widely concerned. In this paper, we present a monocular VO system leveraging learned repeatability and description. In a hybrid scheme, the camera pose is initially tracked on the predicted repeatability maps in a direct manner and then refined with the patch-wise 3D-2D association. The local feature parameterization and the adapted mapping module further boost different functionalities in the system. Extensive evaluations on challenging public datasets are performed. The competitive performance on camera pose estimation demonstrates the effectiveness of our method. Additional studies on the local reconstruction accuracy and running time exhibit that our system is capable of maintaining a robust and lightweight backend.


Title: Interaction Graphs for Object Importance Estimation in On-road Driving Videos
Abstract: A vehicle driving along the road is surrounded by many objects, but only a small subset of them influence the driver's decisions and actions. Learning to estimate the importance of each object on the driver's real-time decision-making may help better understand human driving behavior and lead to more reliable autonomous driving systems. Solving this problem requires models that understand the interactions between the ego-vehicle and the surrounding objects. However, interactions among other objects in the scene can potentially also be very helpful, e.g., a pedestrian beginning to cross the road between the ego-vehicle and the car in front will make the car in front less important. We propose a novel framework for object importance estimation using an interaction graph, in which the features of each object node are updated by interacting with others through graph convolution. Experiments show that our model outperforms state-of-the-art baselines with much less input and pre-processing.


Title: Visual Geometric Skill Inference by Watching Human Demonstration
Abstract: We study the problem of learning manipulation skills from human demonstration video by inferring the association relationships between geometric features. Motivation for this work stems from the observation that humans perform eye-hand coordination tasks by using geometric primitives to define a task while a geometric control error drives the task through execution. We propose a graph based kernel regression method to directly infer the underlying association constraints from human demonstration video using Incremental Maximum Entropy Inverse Reinforcement Learning (InMaxEnt IRL). The learned skill inference provides human readable task definition and outputs control errors that can be directly plugged into traditional controllers. Our method removes the need for tedious feature selection and robust feature trackers required in traditional approaches (e.g. feature-based visual ser-voing). Experiments show our method infers correct geometric associations even with only one human demonstration video and can generalize well under variance.


Title: DFVS: Deep Flow Guided Scene Agnostic Image Based Visual Servoing
Abstract: Existing deep learning based visual servoing approaches regress the relative camera pose between a pair of images. Therefore, they require a huge amount of training data and sometimes fine-tuning for adaptation to a novel scene. Furthermore, current approaches do not consider underlying geometry of the scene and rely on direct estimation of camera pose. Thus, inaccuracies in prediction of the camera pose, especially for distant goals, lead to a degradation in the servoing performance. In this paper, we propose a two-fold solution: (i) We consider optical flow as our visual features, which are predicted using a deep neural network. (ii) These flow features are then systematically integrated with depth estimates provided by another neural network using interaction matrix. We further present an extensive benchmark in a photo-realistic 3D simulation across diverse scenes to study the convergence and generalisation of visual servoing approaches. We show convergence for over 3m and 40 degrees while maintaining precise positioning of under 2cm and 1 degree on our challenging benchmark where the existing approaches that are unable to converge for majority of scenarios for over 1.5m and 20 degrees. Furthermore, we also evaluate our approach for a real scenario on an aerial robot. Our approach generalizes to novel scenarios producing precise and robust servoing performance for 6 degrees of freedom positioning tasks with even large camera transformations without any retraining or fine-tuning.


Title: Photometric Path Planning for Vision-Based Navigation
Abstract: We present a vision-based navigation system that uses a visual memory to navigate. Such memory corresponds to a topological map of key images created from moving a virtual camera over a model of the real scene. The advantage of our approach is that it provides a useful insight into the navigability of a visual path without relying on a traditional learning stage. During the navigation stage, the robot is controlled by sequentially comparing the images stored in the memory with the images acquired by the onboard camera.The evaluation is conducted on a robotic arm equipped with a camera and the model of the environment corresponds to a top view image of an urban scene.


Title: Data-Driven Reinforcement Learning for Walking Assistance Control of a Lower Limb Exoskeleton with Hemiplegic Patients
Abstract: Lower limb exoskeleton (LLE) has received considerable interests in strength augmentation, rehabilitation and walking assistance scenarios. For walking assistance, the LLE is expected to have the capability of controlling the affected leg to track the unaffected leg's motion naturally. An important issue in this scenario is that the exoskeleton system needs to deal with unpredictable disturbance from the patient, which requires the controller of exoskeleton system to have the ability to adapt to different wearers. This paper proposes a novel Data-Driven Reinforcement Learning (DDRL) control strategy to adapt different hemiplegic patients with unpredictable disturbances. In the proposed DDRL strategy, the interaction between two lower limbs of LLE and the legs of hemiplegic patient are modeled in the context of leader-follower framework. The walking assistance control problem is transformed into a optimal control problem. Then, a policy iteration (PI) algorithm is introduced to learn optimal controller. To achieve online adaptation control for different patients, based on PI algorithm, an Actor-Critic Neural Network (ACNN) technology of the reinforcement learning (RL) is employed in the proposed DDRL. We conduct experiments both on a simulation environment and a real LLE system. Experimental results demonstrate that the proposed control strategy has strong robustness against disturbances and adaptability to different pilots.


Title: Learning Grasping Points for Garment Manipulation in Robot-Assisted Dressing
Abstract: Assistive robots have the potential to provide tremendous support for disabled and elderly people in their daily dressing activities. Recent studies on robot-assisted dressing usually simplify the setup of the initial robot configuration by manually attaching the garments on the robot end-effector and positioning them close to the user's arm. A fundamental challenge in automating such a process for robots is computing suitable grasping points on garments that facilitate robotic manipulation. In this paper, we address this problem by introducing a supervised deep neural network to locate a predefined grasping point on the garment, using depth images for their invariance to color and texture. To reduce the amount of real data required, which is costly to collect, we leverage the power of simulation to produce large amounts of labeled data. The network is jointly trained with synthetic datasets of depth images and a limited amount of real data. We introduce a robot-assisted dressing system that combines the grasping point prediction method, with a grasping and manipulation strategy which takes grasping orientation computation and robot-garment collision avoidance into account. The experimental results demonstrate that our method is capable of yielding accurate grasping point estimations. The proposed dressing system enables the Baxter robot to autonomously grasp a hospital gown hung on a rail, bring it close to the user and successfully dress the upper-body.


Title: Shared Autonomous Interface for Reducing Physical Effort in Robot Teleoperation via Human Motion Mapping
Abstract: Motion mapping is an intuitive method of teleoperation with a low learning curve. Our previous study investigates the physical fatigue caused by teleoperating a robot to perform general-purpose assistive tasks and this fatigue affects the operator's performance. The results from that study indicate that physical fatigue happens more in the tasks which involve more precise manipulation and steady posture maintenance. In this paper, we investigate how teleoperation assistance in terms of shared autonomy can reduce the physical workload in robot teleoperation via motion mapping. Specifically, we conduct a user study to compare the muscle effort in teleoperating a mobile humanoid robot to (1) reach and grasp an individual object and (2) collect objects in a cluttered workspace with and without an autonomous grasping function that can be triggered manually by the teleoperator. We also compare the participants' task performance, subjective user experience, and change in attitude towards the usage of teleoperation assistance in the future based on their experience using the assistance function. Our results show that: (1) teleoperation assistance like autonomous grasping can effectively reduce the physical effort, task completion time and number of errors; (2) based on their experience performing the tasks with and without assistance, the teleoperators reported that they would prefer to use automated functions for future teleoperation interfaces.


Title: DexPilot: Vision-Based Teleoperation of Dexterous Robotic Hand-Arm System
Abstract: Teleoperation offers the possibility of imparting robotic systems with sophisticated reasoning skills, intuition, and creativity to perform tasks. However, teleoperation solutions for high degree-of-actuation (DoA), multi-fingered robots are generally cost-prohibitive, while low-cost offerings usually offer reduced degrees of control. Herein, a low-cost, depth-based teleoperation system, DexPilot, was developed that allows for complete control over the full 23 DoA robotic system by merely observing the bare human hand. DexPilot enabled operators to solve a variety of complex manipulation tasks that go beyond simple pick-and-place operations and performance was measured through speed and reliability metrics. DexPilot cost-effectively enables the production of high dimensional, multi-modality, state-action data that can be leveraged in the future to learn sensorimotor policies for challenging manipulation tasks. The videos of the experiments can be found at https://sites.google.com/view/dex-pilot.


Title: Enhanced Teleoperation Using Autocomplete
Abstract: Controlling and manning robots from a remote location is difficult because of the limitations one faces in perception and available degrees of actuation. Although humans can become skilled teleoperators, the amount of training time required to acquire such skills is typically very high. In this paper, we propose a novel solution (named Autocomplete) to aid novice teleoperators in manning robots adroitly. At the input side, Autocomplete relies on machine learning to detect and categorize human inputs as one from a group of motion primitives. Once a desired motion is recognized, at the actuation side an automated command replaces the human input in performing the desired action. So far, Autocomplete can recognize and synthesize lines, arcs, full circles, 3-D helices, and sine trajectories. Autocomplete was tested in simulation on the teleoperation of an unmanned aerial vehicle, and results demonstrate the advantages of the proposed solution versus manual steering.


Title: Episodic Koopman Learning of Nonlinear Robot Dynamics with Application to Fast Multirotor Landing
Abstract: This paper presents a novel episodic method to learn a robot's nonlinear dynamics model and an increasingly optimal control sequence for a set of tasks. The method is based on the Koopman operator approach to nonlinear dynamical systems analysis, which models the flow of observables in a function space, rather than a flow in a state space. Practically, this method estimates a nonlinear diffeomorphism that lifts the dynamics to a higher dimensional space where they are linear. Efficient Model Predictive Control methods can then be applied to the lifted model. This approach allows for real time implementation in on-board hardware, with rigorous incorporation of both input and state constraints during learning. We demonstrate the method in a real-time implementation of fast multirotor landing, where the nonlinear ground effect is learned and used to improve landing speed and quality.


Title: Modeling Electromagnetic Navigation Systems for Medical Applications using Random Forests and Artificial Neural Networks
Abstract: Electromagnetic Navigation Systems (eMNS) can be used to control a variety of multiscale devices within the human body for remote surgery. Accurate modeling of the magnetic fields generated by the electromagnets of an eMNS is crucial for the precise control of these devices. Existing methods assume a linear behavior of these systems, leading to significant modeling errors within nonlinear regions exhibited at higher magnetic fields, preventing these systems from operating at full capacity. In this paper, we use a random forest (RF) and an artificial neural network (ANN) to model the nonlinear behavior of the magnetic fields generated by an eMNS. Both machine learning methods outperformed the state-of-the-art linear multipole electromagnet model (MPEM). The RF and the ANN model reduced the root mean squared error (RMSE) of the MPEM when predicting the field magnitude by approximately 40% and 87%, respectively, over the entire current range of the eMNS. At high current regions, especially between 30 and 35 A, the field-magnitude RMSE improvement of the ANN model over the MPEM was 37 mT, equivalent to 90% error reduction. This study demonstrates the feasibility of using machine learning to model an eMNS for medical applications, and its ability to account for complex nonlinear behavior at high currents. The use of machine learning thus shows promise in developing accurate field predicting models, and ultimately improving surgical procedures that use magnetic navigation.


Title: Towards Adaptive Benthic Habitat Mapping
Abstract: Autonomous Underwater Vehicles (AUVs) are increasingly being used to support scientific research and monitoring studies. One such application is in benthic habitat mapping where these vehicles collect seafloor imagery that complements broadscale bathymetric data collected using sonar. Using these two data sources, the relationship between remotely-sensed acoustic data and the sampled imagery can be learned, creating a habitat model. As the areas to be mapped are often very large and AUV systems collecting seafloor imagery can only sample from a small portion of the survey area, the information gathered should be maximised for each deployment. This paper illustrates how the habitat models themselves can be used to plan more efficient AUV surveys by identifying where to collect further samples in order to most improve the habitat model. A Bayesian neural network is used to predict visually-derived habitat classes when given broad-scale bathymetric data. This network can also estimate the uncertainty associated with a prediction, which can be deconstructed into its aleatoric (data) and epistemic (model) components. We demonstrate how these structured uncertainty estimates can be utilised to improve the model with fewer samples. Such adaptive approaches to benthic surveys have the potential to reduce costs by prioritizing further sampling efforts. We illustrate the effectiveness of the proposed approach using data collected by an AUV on offshore reefs in Tasmania, Australia.


Title: Reliability Validation of Learning Enabled Vehicle Tracking
Abstract: This paper studies the reliability of a real-world learning-enabled system, which conducts dynamic vehicle tracking based on a high-resolution wide-area motion imagery input. The system consists of multiple neural network components - to process the imagery inputs - and multiple symbolic (Kalman filter) components - to analyse the processed information for vehicle tracking. It is known that neural networks suffer from adversarial examples, which make them lack robustness. However, it is unclear if and how the adversarial examples over learning components can affect the overall system-level reliability. By integrating a coverage-guided neural network testing tool, DeepConcolic, with the vehicle tracking system, we found that (1) the overall system can be resilient to some adversarial examples thanks to the existence of other components, and (2) the overall system presents an extra level of uncertainty which cannot be determined by analysing the deep learning components only. This research suggests the need for novel verification and validation methods for learning-enabled systems.


Title: Form2Fit: Learning Shape Priors for Generalizable Assembly from Disassembly
Abstract: Is it possible to learn policies for robotic assembly that can generalize to new objects? We explore this idea in the context of the kit assembly task. Since classic methods rely heavily on object pose estimation, they often struggle to generalize to new objects without 3D CAD models or task-specific training data. In this work, we propose to formulate the kit assembly task as a shape matching problem, where the goal is to learn a shape descriptor that establishes geometric correspondences between object surfaces and their target placement locations from visual input. This formulation enables the model to acquire a broader understanding of how shapes and surfaces fit together for assembly - allowing it to generalize to new objects and kits. To obtain training data for our model, we present a self-supervised data-collection pipeline that obtains ground truth object-to-placement correspondences by disassembling complete kits. Our resulting real-world system, Form2Fit, learns effective pick and place strategies for assembling objects into a variety of kits - achieving 90% average success rates under different initial conditions (e.g. varying object and kit poses), 94% success under new configurations of multiple kits, and over 86% success with completely new objects and kits. Code, videos, and supplemental material are available at https://form2fit.github.io.


Title: Learning Rope Manipulation Policies Using Dense Object Descriptors Trained on Synthetic Depth Data
Abstract: Robotic manipulation of deformable 1D objects such as ropes, cables, and hoses is challenging due to the lack of high-fidelity analytic models and large configuration spaces. Furthermore, learning end-to-end manipulation policies directly from images and physical interaction requires significant time on a robot and can fail to generalize across tasks. We address these challenges using interpretable deep visual representations for rope, extending recent work on dense object descriptors for robot manipulation. This facilitates the design of interpretable and transferable geometric policies built on top of the learned representations, decoupling visual reasoning and control. We present an approach that learns point-pair correspondences between initial and goal rope configurations, which implicitly encodes geometric structure, entirely in simulation from synthetic depth images. We demonstrate that the learned representation - dense depth object descriptors (DDODs) - can be used to manipulate a real rope into a variety of different arrangements either by learning from demonstrations or using interpretable geometric policies. In 50 trials of a knot-tying task with the ABB YuMi Robot, the system achieves a 66% knot-tying success rate from previously unseen configurations. See https://tinyurl.com/rope-learning for supplementary material and videos.


Title: PST900: RGB-Thermal Calibration, Dataset and Segmentation Network
Abstract: In this work we propose long wave infrared (LWIR) imagery as a viable supporting modality for semantic segmentation using learning-based techniques. We first address the problem of RGB-thermal camera calibration by proposing a passive calibration target and procedure that is both portable and easy to use. Second, we present PST900, a dataset of 894 synchronized and calibrated RGB and Thermal image pairs with per pixel human annotations across four distinct classes from the DARPA Subterranean Challenge. Lastly, we propose a CNN architecture for fast semantic segmentation that combines both RGB and Thermal imagery in a way that leverages RGB imagery independently. We compare our method against the state-of-the-art and show that our method outperforms them in our dataset.


Title: Under the Radar: Learning to Predict Robust Keypoints for Odometry Estimation and Metric Localisation in Radar
Abstract: This paper presents a self-supervised framework for learning to detect robust keypoints for odometry estimation and metric localisation in radar. By embedding a differentiable point-based motion estimator inside our architecture, we learn keypoint locations, scores and descriptors from localisation error alone. This approach avoids imposing any assumption on what makes a robust keypoint and crucially allows them to be optimised for our application. Furthermore the architecture is sensor agnostic and can be applied to most modalities. We run experiments on 280km of real world driving from the Oxford Radar RobotCar Dataset and improve on the state-of-the-art in point-based radar odometry, reducing errors by up to 45% whilst running an order of magnitude faster, simultaneously solving metric loop closures. Combining these outputs, we provide a framework capable of full mapping and localisation with radar in urban environments.


Title: Any Motion Detector: Learning Class-agnostic Scene Dynamics from a Sequence of LiDAR Point Clouds
Abstract: Object detection and motion parameters estimation are crucial tasks for self-driving vehicle safe navigation in a complex urban environment. In this work we propose a novel real-time approach of temporal context aggregation for motion detection and motion parameters estimation based on 3D point cloud sequence. We introduce an ego-motion compensation layer to achieve real-time inference with performance comparable to a naive odometric transform of the original point cloud sequence. Not only is the proposed architecture capable of estimating the motion of common road participants like vehicles or pedestrians but also generalizes to other object categories which are not present in training data. We also conduct an in-deep analysis of different temporal context aggregation strategies such as recurrent cells and 3D convolutions. Finally, we provide comparison results of our state-of-the-art model with existing solutions on KITTI Scene Flow dataset.


Title: A Data-driven Planning Framework for Robotic Texture Painting on 3D Surfaces
Abstract: Painting textures on 3D surfaces requires an understanding of the surface geometry, paint flow and paint mixing. This work formulates automated painting as a planning problem and proposes a solution based on a self-supervised learning framework that enables a robot to paint monochromatic non-uniform textures on 3D surfaces. We developed a method that iteratively decides the actions to take based on constant feedback of the painting process. Inspired by recent results, we formulate our solution using a recurrent neural network (RNN) to decide where and what to paint on the surface at each time instant. Specifically, the paint delivery tool's flow rate, orientation and position relative to the surface at each time instant are evaluated. This data can then be processed by a robot's planner of choice for generating a painting mission that can achieve the desired end result. We evaluate the proposed approach by providing qualitative and quantitative results of the different components. Furthermore, we validate the effectiveness of the approach for the application by providing renderings from a paint simulation environment and show how a robot executes the planned painting mission on a generic 3D surface.


Title: Learned Critical Probabilistic Roadmaps for Robotic Motion Planning
Abstract: Sampling-based motion planning techniques have emerged as an efficient algorithmic paradigm for solving complex motion planning problems. These approaches use a set of probing samples to construct an implicit graph representation of the robot's state space, allowing arbitrarily accurate representations as the number of samples increases to infinity. In practice, however, solution trajectories only rely on a few critical states, often defined by structure in the state space (e.g., doorways). In this work we propose a general method to identify these critical states via graph-theoretic techniques (betweenness centrality) and learn to predict criticality from only local environment features. These states are then leveraged more heavily via global connections within a hierarchical graph, termed Critical Probabilistic Roadmaps. Critical PRMs are demonstrated to achieve up to three orders of magnitude improvement over uniform sampling, while preserving the guarantees and complexity of sampling-based motion planning. A video is available at https://youtu.be/AYoD-pGd9ms.


Title: Learning Heuristic A*: Efficient Graph Search using Neural Network
Abstract: In this paper, we consider the path planning problem on a graph. To reduce computation load by efficiently exploring the graph, we model the heuristic function as a neural network, which is trained by a training set derived from optimal paths to estimate the optimal cost between a pair of vertices on the graph. As such heuristic function cannot be proved to be an admissible heuristic to guarantee the global optimality of the path, we adapt an admissible heuristic function for the terminating criteria. Thus, proposed Learning Heuristic A* (LHA*) guarantees the bounded suboptimality of the path. The performance of LHA* was demonstrated by simulations in a maze-like map and compared with the performance of weighted A* with the same suboptimality bound.


Title: 3D-CNN Based Heuristic Guided Task-Space Planner for Faster Motion Planning
Abstract: Motion planning is important in a wide variety of applications such as robotic manipulation. However, it is still challenging to reliably find a collision-free path within a reasonable time. To address the issue, this paper proposes a novel framework which combines a sampling-based planner and deep learning for faster motion planning, focusing on heuristics. The proposed method extends Task-Space Rapidly-exploring Random Trees (TS-RRT) to guide the trees with a "heuristic map" where every voxel has a cost-to-go value toward the goal. It also utilizes fully convolutional neural networks (CNNs) for producing more appropriate heuristic maps, rather than manually-designed heuristics. To verify the effectiveness of the proposed method, experiments for motion planning using a real environment and mobile manipulator are carried out. The results indicate that it outperforms the existing planners, especially in terms of the average planning time with smaller variance.


Title: Learned Sampling Distributions for Efficient Planning in Hybrid Geometric and Object-Level Representations
Abstract: We would like to enable a robotic agent to quickly and intelligently find promising trajectories through structured, unknown environments. Many approaches to navigation in unknown environments are limited to considering geometric information only, which leads to myopic behavior. In this work, we show that learning a sampling distribution that incorporates both geometric information and explicit, object-level semantics for sampling-based planners enables efficient planning at longer horizons in partially-known environments. We demonstrate that our learned planner is up to 2.7 times more likely to find a plan than the baseline, and can result in up to a 16% reduction in traversal costs as calculated by linear regression. We also show promising qualitative results on real-world data.


Title: Deep Visual Heuristics: Learning Feasibility of Mixed-Integer Programs for Manipulation Planning
Abstract: In this paper, we propose a deep neural network that predicts the feasibility of a mixed-integer program from visual input for robot manipulation planning. Integrating learning into task and motion planning is challenging, since it is unclear how the scene and goals can be encoded as input to the learning algorithm in a way that enables to generalize over a variety of tasks in environments with changing numbers of objects and goals. To achieve this, we propose to encode the scene and the target object directly in the image space.Our experiments show that our proposed network generalizes to scenes with multiple objects, although during training only two objects are present at the same time. By using the learned network as a heuristic to guide the search over the discrete variables of the mixed-integer program, the number of optimization problems that have to be solved to find a feasible solution or to detect infeasibility can greatly be reduced.


Title: Look, Listen, and Act: Towards Audio-Visual Embodied Navigation
Abstract: A crucial ability of mobile intelligent agents is to integrate the evidence from multiple sensory inputs in an environment and to make a sequence of actions to reach their goals. In this paper, we attempt to approach the problem of Audio-Visual Embodied Navigation, the task of planning the shortest path from a random starting location in a scene to the sound source in an indoor environment, given only raw egocentric visual and audio sensory data. To accomplish this task, the agent is required to learn from various modalities, i.e., relating the audio signal to the visual environment. Here we describe an approach to audio-visual embodied navigation that takes advantage of both visual and audio pieces of evidence. Our solution is based on three key ideas: a visual perception mapper module that constructs its spatial memory of the environment, a sound perception module that infers the relative location of the sound source from the agent, and a dynamic path planner that plans a sequence of actions based on the audio-visual observations and the spatial memory of the environment to navigate toward the goal. Experimental results on a newly collected Visual-Audio-Room dataset using the simulated multi-modal environment demonstrate the effectiveness of our approach over several competitive baselines.


Title: Training-Set Distillation for Real-Time UAV Object Tracking
Abstract: Correlation filter (CF) has recently exhibited promising performance in visual object tracking for unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV). Such online learning method heavily depends on the quality of the training-set, yet complicated aerial scenarios like occlusion or out of view can reduce its reliability. In this work, a novel time slot-based distillation approach is proposed to efficiently and effectively optimize the training-set's quality on the fly. A cooperative energy minimization function is established to score the historical samples adaptively. To accelerate the scoring process, frames with high confident tracking results are employed as the keyframes to divide the tracking process into multiple time slots. After the establishment of a new slot, the weighted fusion of the previous samples generates one key-sample, in order to reduce the number of samples to be scored. Besides, when the current time slot exceeds the maximum frame number, which can be scored, the sample with the lowest score will be discarded. Consequently, the training-set can be efficiently and reliably distilled. Comprehensive tests on two well-known UAV benchmarks prove the effectiveness of our method with real-time speed on single CPU.


Title: Variable Impedance Control in Cartesian Latent Space while Avoiding Obstacles in Null Space
Abstract: Human-robot interaction is one of the keys of assistive robots. Robots are expected to be compliant with people but at the same time correctly perform the tasks. In such applications, Cartesian impedance control is preferred over joint control, as the desired interaction and environmental feedback can be described more naturally, and the force to be exerted by the robot can be readily adjusted.This paper addresses the problem of controlling a robot arm in the operational space with variable stiffness so as to continuously adapt the force exerted in each phase of motion according to the precision requirements. Moreover, performing dimensionality reduction we can separate the degrees of freedom (DoF) relevant for the task from the redundant ones. The stiffness of the former can be adjusted constantly to achieve the required accuracy, while task-redundant DoF can be used to achieve other goals such as avoiding obstacles by moving in the directions where accuracy is not critical. The designed method is tested teaching the robot to give water to drink to a model of human head. Our empirical results demonstrate that the robot can learn precision requirements from demonstration. Furthermore, dimensionality reduction is proved to be useful to avoid obstacles.


Title: Learning Pregrasp Manipulation of Objects from Ungraspable Poses
Abstract: In robotic grasping, objects are often occluded in ungraspable configurations such that no feasible grasp pose can be found, e.g. large flat boxes on the table that can only be grasped once lifted. Inspired by human bimanual manipulation, e.g. one hand to lift up things and the other to grasp, we address this type of problems by introducing pregrasp manipulation - push and lift actions. We propose a model-free Deep Reinforcement Learning framework to train feedback control policies that utilize visual information and proprioceptive states of the robot to autonomously discover robust pregrasp manipulation. The robot arm learns to push the object first towards a support surface and then lift up one side of the object, creating an object-table clearance for possible grasping solutions. Furthermore, we show the robustness of the proposed learning framework in training pregrasp policies that can be directly transferred to a real robot. Lastly, we evaluate the effectiveness and generalization ability of the learned policy in real-world experiments, and demonstrate pregrasp manipulation of objects with various sizes, shapes, weights, and surface friction.


Title: Attention-Guided Lightweight Network for Real-Time Segmentation of Robotic Surgical Instruments
Abstract: The real-time segmentation of surgical instruments plays a crucial role in robot-assisted surgery. However, it is still a challenging task to implement deep learning models to do real-time segmentation for surgical instruments due to their high computational costs and slow inference speed. In this paper, we propose an attention-guided lightweight network (LWANet), which can segment surgical instruments in real-time. LWANet adopts encoder-decoder architecture, where the encoder is the lightweight network MobileNetV2, and the decoder consists of depthwise separable convolution, attention fusion block, and transposed convolution. Depthwise separable convolution is used as the basic unit to construct the decoder, which can reduce the model size and computational costs. Attention fusion block captures global contexts and encodes semantic dependencies between channels to emphasize target regions, contributing to locating the surgical instrument. Transposed convolution is performed to upsample feature maps for acquiring refined edges. LWANet can segment surgical instruments in real-time while takes little computational costs. Based on 960x544 inputs, its inference speed can reach 39 fps with only 3.39 GFLOPs. Also, it has a small model size and the number of parameters is only 2.06 M. The proposed network is evaluated on two datasets. It achieves state-of-the- art performance 94.10% mean IOU on Cata7 and obtains a new record on EndoVis 2017 with a 4.10% increase on mean IOU.


Title: Single-Shot Pose Estimation of Surgical Robot Instruments’ Shafts from Monocular Endoscopic Images
Abstract: Surgical robots are used to perform minimally invasive surgery and alleviate much of the burden imposed on surgeons. Our group has developed a surgical robot to aid in the removal of tumors at the base of the skull via access through the nostrils. To avoid injuring the patients, a collision-avoidance algorithm that depends on having an accurate model for the poses of the instruments' shafts is used. Given that the model's parameters can change over time owing to interactions between instruments and other disturbances, the online estimation of the poses of the instrument's shaft is essential. In this work, we propose a new method to estimate the pose of the surgical instruments' shafts using a monocular endoscope. Our method is based on the use of an automatically annotated training dataset and an improved pose-estimation deep-learning architecture. In preliminary experiments, we show that our method can surpass state of the art vision-based marker-less pose estimation techniques (providing an error decrease of 55% in position estimation, 64% in pitch, and 69% in yaw) by using artificial images.


Title: End-to-End Real-time Catheter Segmentation with Optical Flow-Guided Warping during Endovascular Intervention
Abstract: Accurate real-time catheter segmentation is an important pre-requisite for robot-assisted endovascular intervention. Most of the existing learning-based methods for catheter segmentation and tracking are only trained on smallscale datasets or synthetic data due to the difficulties of ground-truth annotation. Furthermore, the temporal continuity in intraoperative imaging sequences is not fully utilised. In this paper, we present FW-Net, an end-to-end and real-time deep learning framework for endovascular intervention. The proposed FW-Net has three modules: a segmentation network with encoder-decoder architecture, a flow network to extract optical flow information, and a novel flow-guided warping function to learn the frame-to-frame temporal continuity. We show that by effectively learning temporal continuity, the network can successfully segment and track the catheters in real-time sequences using only raw ground-truth for training. Detailed validation results confirm that our FW-Net outperforms stateof-the-art techniques while achieving real-time performance.


Title: AVOT: Audio-Visual Object Tracking of Multiple Objects for Robotics
Abstract: Existing state-of-the-art object tracking can run into challenges when objects collide, occlude, or come close to one another. These visually based trackers may also fail to differentiate between objects with the same appearance but different materials. Existing methods may stop tracking or incorrectly start tracking another object. These failures are uneasy for trackers to recover from since they often use results from previous frames. By using audio of the impact sounds from object collisions, rolling, etc., our audio-visual object tracking (AVOT) neural network can reduce tracking error and drift. We train AVOT end to end and use audio-visual inputs over all frames. Our audio-based technique may be used in conjunction with other neural networks to augment visually based object detection and tracking methods. We evaluate its runtime frames-per-second (FPS) performance and intersection over union (IoU) performance against OpenCV object tracking implementations and a deep learning method. Our experiments, using the synthetic Sound-20K audio-visual dataset, demonstrate that AVOT outperforms single-modality deep learning methods, when there is audio from object collisions. A proposed scheduler network to switch between AVOT and other methods based on audio onset maximizes accuracy and performance over all frames in multimodal object tracking.


Title: 6-PACK: Category-level 6D Pose Tracker with Anchor-Based Keypoints
Abstract: We present 6-PACK, a deep learning approach to category-level 6D object pose tracking on RGB-D data. Our method tracks in real time novel object instances of known object categories such as bowls, laptops, and mugs. 6-PACK learns to compactly represent an object by a handful of 3D keypoints, based on which the interframe motion of an object instance can be estimated through keypoint matching. These keypoints are learned end-to-end without manual supervision in order to be most effective for tracking. Our experiments show that our method substantially outperforms existing methods on the NOCS category-level 6D pose estimation benchmark and supports a physical robot to perform simple vision-based closed-loop manipulation tasks. Our code and video are available at https://sites.google.com/view/6packtracking.


Title: Exoskeleton-covered soft finger with vision-based proprioception and tactile sensing
Abstract: Soft robots offer significant advantages in adaptability, safety, and dexterity compared to conventional rigid-body robots. However, it is challenging to equip soft robots with accurate proprioception and tactile sensing due to their high flexibility and elasticity. In this work, we describe the development of a vision-based proprioceptive and tactile sensor for soft robots called GelFlex, which is inspired by previous GelSight sensing techniques. More specifically, we develop a novel exoskeleton-covered soft finger with embedded cameras and deep learning methods that enable high-resolution proprioceptive sensing and rich tactile sensing. To do so, we design features along the axial direction of the finger, which enable high-resolution proprioceptive sensing, and incorporate a reflective ink coating on the surface of the finger to enable rich tactile sensing. We design a highly underactuated exoskeleton with a tendon-driven mechanism to actuate the finger. Finally, we assemble 2 of the fingers together to form a robotic gripper and successfully perform a bar stock classification task, which requires both shape and tactile information. We train neural networks for proprioception and shape (box versus cylinder) classification using data from the embedded sensors. The proprioception CNN had over 99% accuracy on our testing set (all six joint angles were within 1° of error) and had an average accumulative distance error of 0.77 mm during live testing, which is better than human finger proprioception. These proposed techniques offer soft robots the high-level ability to simultaneously perceive their proprioceptive state and peripheral environment, providing potential solutions for soft robots to solve everyday manipulation tasks. We believe the methods developed in this work can be widely applied to different designs and applications.


Title: Model Learning for Control of a Paralyzed Human Arm with Functional Electrical Stimulation
Abstract: Functional electrical stimulation (FES) is a promising technique for restoring reaching ability to individuals with tetraplegia. To this point, the complexities of goal-directed reaching motions and the shoulder-arm complex have prevented the realization of this potential in full-arm 3D reaching tasks. We trained a Gaussian process regression model to form the basis of a feedforward-feedback control structure capable of achieving reaching motions with a paralyzed upper limb. Over a series of 95 reaches of at least 10 cm in length, the controller achieved an average accuracy (measured by the Euclidean distance of the wrist to the final target position) of 3.8 cm and an average error along the path of 3.5 cm. This controller is the first demonstration of an accurate, complete-arm, FES-driven 3D reaching controller to be implemented with an individual with tetraplegia.


Title: Assistive Gym: A Physics Simulation Framework for Assistive Robotics
Abstract: Autonomous robots have the potential to serve as versatile caregivers that improve quality of life for millions of people worldwide. Yet, conducting research in this area presents numerous challenges, including the risks of physical interaction between people and robots. Physics simulations have been used to optimize and train robots for physical assistance, but have typically focused on a single task. In this paper, we present Assistive Gym, an open source physics simulation framework for assistive robots that models multiple tasks. It includes six simulated environments in which a robotic manipulator can attempt to assist a person with activities of daily living (ADLs): itch scratching, drinking, feeding, body manipulation, dressing, and bathing. Assistive Gym models a person's physical capabilities and preferences for assistance, which are used to provide a reward function. We present baseline policies trained using reinforcement learning for four different commercial robots in the six environments. We demonstrate that modeling human motion results in better assistance and we compare the performance of different robots. Overall, we show that Assistive Gym is a promising tool for assistive robotics research.


Title: Learning Whole-Body Human-Robot Haptic Interaction in Social Contexts
Abstract: This paper presents a learning-from-demonstration (LfD) framework for teaching human-robot social interactions that involve whole-body haptic interaction, i.e. direct human-robot contact over the full robot body. The performance of existing LfD frameworks suffers in such interactions due to the high dimensionality and spatiotemporal sparsity of the demonstration data. We show that by leveraging this sparsity, we can reduce the data dimensionality without incurring a significant accuracy penalty, and introduce three strategies for doing so. By combining these techniques with an LfD framework for learning multimodal human-robot interactions, we can model the spatiotemporal relationship between the tactile and kinesthetic information during whole-body haptic interactions. Using a teleoperated bimanual robot equipped with 61 force sensors, we experimentally demonstrate that a model trained with 121 sample hugs from 4 participants generalizes well to unseen inputs and human partners.


Title: Hand-worn Haptic Interface for Drone Teleoperation
Abstract: Drone teleoperation is usually accomplished using remote radio controllers, devices that can be hard to master for inexperienced users. Moreover, the limited amount of information fed back to the user about the robot's state, often limited to vision, can represent a bottleneck for operation in several conditions. In this work, we present a wearable interface for drone teleoperation and its evaluation through a user study. The two main features of the proposed system are a data glove to allow the user to control the drone trajectory by hand motion and a haptic system used to augment their awareness of the environment surrounding the robot. This interface can be employed for the operation of robotic systems in line of sight (LoS) by inexperienced operators and allows them to safely perform tasks common in inspection and search-and-rescue missions such as approaching walls and crossing narrow passages with limited visibility conditions. In addition to the design and implementation of the wearable interface, we performed a systematic study to assess the effectiveness of the system through three user studies (n = 36) to evaluate the users' learning path and their ability to perform tasks with limited visibility. We validated our ideas in both a simulated and a real-world environment. Our results demonstrate that the proposed system can improve teleoperation performance in different cases compared to standard remote controllers, making it a viable alternative to standard Human-Robot Interfaces.


Title: Helping Robots Learn: A Human-Robot Master-Apprentice Model Using Demonstrations via Virtual Reality Teleoperation
Abstract: As artificial intelligence becomes an increasingly prevalent method of enhancing robotic capabilities, it is important to consider effective ways to train these learning pipelines and to leverage human expertise. Working towards these goals, a master-apprentice model is presented and is evaluated during a grasping task for effectiveness and human perception. The apprenticeship model augments self-supervised learning with learning by demonstration, efficiently using the human's time and expertise while facilitating future scalability to supervision of multiple robots; the human provides demonstrations via virtual reality when the robot cannot complete the task autonomously. Experimental results indicate that the robot learns a grasping task with the apprenticeship model faster than with a solely self-supervised approach and with fewer human interventions than a solely demonstration-based approach; 100% grasping success is obtained after 150 grasps with 19 demonstrations. Preliminary user studies evaluating workload, usability, and effectiveness of the system yield promising results for system scalability and deployability. They also suggest a tendency for users to overestimate the robot's skill and to generalize its capabilities, especially as learning improves.


Title: Predicting Obstacle Footprints from 2D Occupancy Maps by Learning from Physical Interactions
Abstract: Horizontally scanning 2D laser rangefinders are a popular approach for indoor robot localization because of the high accuracy of the sensors and the compactness of the required 2D maps. As the scanners in this configuration only provide information about one slice of the environment, the measurements typically do not capture the full extent of a large variety of obstacles, including chairs or tables. Accordingly, obstacle avoidance based on laser scanners mounted in such a fashion is likely to fail. In this paper, we propose a learning-based approach to predict collisions in 2D occupancy maps. Our approach is based on a convolutional neural network which is trained on a 2D occupancy map and collision events recorded with a bumper while the robot is navigating in its environment. As the network operates on local structures only, it can generalize to new environments. In addition, the robot can collect and integrate new collision examples after an initial training phase. Extensive experiments carried out in simulation and a realistic real-world environment confirm that our approach allows robots to learn from collision events to avoid collisions in the future.


Title: Path Planning in Dynamic Environments using Generative RNNs and Monte Carlo Tree Search
Abstract: State of the art methods for robotic path planning in dynamic environments, such as crowds or traffic, rely on hand crafted motion models for agents. These models often do not reflect interactions of agents in real world scenarios. To overcome this limitation, this paper proposes an integrated path planning framework using generative Recurrent Neural Networks within a Monte Carlo Tree Search (MCTS). This approach uses a learnt model of social response to predict crowd dynamics during planning across the action space. This extends our recent work using generative RNNs to learn the relationship between planned robotic actions and the likely response of a crowd. We show that the proposed framework can considerably improve motion prediction accuracy during interactions, allowing more effective path planning. The performance of our method is compared in simulation with existing methods for collision avoidance in a crowd of pedestrians, demonstrating the ability to control future states of nearby individuals. We also conduct preliminary real world tests to validate the effectiveness of our method.


Title: Control Synthesis from Linear Temporal Logic Specifications using Model-Free Reinforcement Learning
Abstract: We present a reinforcement learning (RL) frame-work to synthesize a control policy from a given linear temporal logic (LTL) specification in an unknown stochastic environment that can be modeled as a Markov Decision Process (MDP). Specifically, we learn a policy that maximizes the probability of satisfying the LTL formula without learning the transition probabilities. We introduce a novel rewarding and discounting mechanism based on the LTL formula such that (i) an optimal policy maximizing the total discounted reward effectively maximizes the probabilities of satisfying LTL objectives, and (ii) a model-free RL algorithm using these rewards and discount factors is guaranteed to converge to such a policy. Finally, we illustrate the applicability of our RL-based synthesis approach on two motion planning case studies.


Title: Radar Sensors in Collaborative Robotics: Fast Simulation and Experimental Validation
Abstract: With the availability of small system in package realizations, radar systems become more and more attractive for a variety of applications in robotics, in particular also for collaborative robotics. As the simulation of robot systems in realistic scenarios has become an important tool, not only for design and optimization, but also e.g. for machine learning approaches, realistic simulation models are needed. In the case of radar sensor simulations, this means providing more realistic results than simple proximity sensors, e.g. in the presence of multiple objects and/or humans, objects with different relative velocities and differentiation between background and foreground movement. Due to the short wavelength in the millimeter range, we propose to utilize methods known from computer graphics (e.g. z-buffer, Lambertian reflectance model) to quickly acquire depth images and reflection estimates. This information is used to calculate an estimate of the received signal for a Frequency Modulated Continuous Wave (FMCW) radar by superposition of the corresponding signal contributions. Due to the moderate computational complexity, the approach can be used with various simulation environments such as V-Rep or Gazebo. Validity and benefits of the approach are demonstrated by means of a comparison with experimental data obtained with a radar sensor on a UR10 arm in different scenarios.


Title: Transferable Task Execution from Pixels through Deep Planning Domain Learning
Abstract: While robots can learn models to solve many manipulation tasks from raw visual input, they cannot usually use these models to solve new problems. On the other hand, symbolic planning methods such as STRIPS have long been able to solve new problems given only a domain definition and a symbolic goal, but these approaches often struggle on the real world robotic tasks due to the challenges of grounding these symbols from sensor data in a partially-observable world. We propose Deep Planning Domain Learning (DPDL), an approach that combines the strengths of both methods to learn a hierarchical model. DPDL learns a high-level model which predicts values for a large set of logical predicates consisting of the current symbolic world state, and separately learns a low-level policy which translates symbolic operators into executable actions on the robot. This allows us to perform complex, multistep tasks even when the robot has not been explicitly trained on them. We show our method on manipulation tasks in a photorealistic kitchen scenario.


Title: Depth by Poking: Learning to Estimate Depth from Self-Supervised Grasping
Abstract: Accurate depth estimation remains an open problem for robotic manipulation; even state of the art techniques including structured light and LiDAR sensors fail on reflective or transparent surfaces. We address this problem by training a neural network model to estimate depth from RGB-D images, using labels from physical interactions between a robot and its environment. Our network predicts, for each pixel in an input image, the z position that a robot's end effector would reach if it attempted to grasp or poke at the corresponding position. Given an autonomous grasping policy, our approach is self-supervised as end effector position labels can be recovered through forward kinematics, without human annotation. Although gathering such physical interaction data is expensive, it is necessary for training and routine operation of state of the art manipulation systems. Therefore, this depth estimator comes for free while collecting data for other tasks (e.g., grasping, pushing, placing). We show our approach achieves significantly lower root mean squared error than traditional structured light sensors and unsupervised deep learning methods on dif cult, industry-scale jumbled bin datasets.


Title: Online Learning of Object Representations by Appearance Space Feature Alignment
Abstract: We propose a self-supervised approach for learning representations of objects from monocular videos and demonstrate it is particularly useful for robotics. The main contributions of this paper are: 1) a self-supervised model called Object-Contrastive Network (OCN) that can discover and disentangle object attributes from video without using any labels; 2) we leverage self-supervision for online adaptation: the longer our online model looks at objects in a video, the lower the object identification error, while the offline baseline remains with a large fixed error; 3) we show the usefulness of our approach for a robotic pointing task; a robot can point to objects similar to the one presented in front of it. Videos illustrating online object adaptation and robotic pointing are provided as supplementary material.


Title: Visual Prediction of Priors for Articulated Object Interaction
Abstract: Exploration in novel settings can be challenging without prior experience in similar domains. However, humans are able to build on prior experience quickly and efficiently. Children exhibit this behavior when playing with toys. For example, given a toy with a yellow and blue door, a child will explore with no clear objective, but once they have discovered how to open the yellow door, they will most likely be able to open the blue door much faster. Adults also exhibit this behaviour when entering new spaces such as kitchens. We develop a method, Contextual Prior Prediction, which provides a means of transferring knowledge between interactions in similar domains through vision. We develop agents that exhibit exploratory behavior with increasing efficiency, by learning visual features that are shared across environments, and how they correlate to actions. Our problem is formulated as a Contextual Multi-Armed Bandit where the contexts are images, and the robot has access to a parameterized action space. Given a novel object, the objective is to maximize reward with few interactions. A domain which strongly exhibits correlations between visual features and motion is kinemetically constrained mechanisms. We evaluate our method on simulated prismatic and revolute joints1.


Title: MT-DSSD: Deconvolutional Single Shot Detector Using Multi Task Learning for Object Detection, Segmentation, and Grasping Detection
Abstract: This paper presents the multi-task Deconvolutional Single Shot Detector (MT-DSSD), which runs three tasks-object detection, semantic object segmentation, and grasping detection for a suction cup-in a single network based on the DSSD. Simultaneous execution of object detection and segmentation by multi-task learning improves the accuracy of these two tasks. Additionally, the model detects grasping points and performs the three recognition tasks necessary for robot manipulation. The proposed model can perform fast inference, which reduces the time required for grasping operation. Evaluations using the Amazon Robotics Challenge (ARC) dataset showed that our model has better object detection and segmentation performance than comparable methods, and robotic experiments for grasping show that our model can detect the appropriate grasping point.


Title: Stillleben: Realistic Scene Synthesis for Deep Learning in Robotics
Abstract: Training data is the key ingredient for deep learning approaches, but difficult to obtain for the specialized domains often encountered in robotics. We describe a synthesis pipeline capable of producing training data for cluttered scene perception tasks such as semantic segmentation, object detection, and correspondence or pose estimation. Our approach arranges object meshes in physically realistic, dense scenes using physics simulation. The arranged scenes are rendered using high-quality rasterization with randomized appearance and material parameters. Noise and other transformations introduced by the camera sensors are simulated. Our pipeline can be run online during training of a deep neural network, yielding applications in life-long learning and in iterative render-and-compare approaches. We demonstrate the usability by learning semantic segmentation on the challenging YCB-Video dataset without actually using any training frames, where our method achieves performance comparable to a conventionally trained model. Additionally, we show successful application in a real-world regrasping system.


Title: Spatiotemporal Representation Learning with GAN Trained LSTM-LSTM Networks
Abstract: Learning robot behaviors in unstructured environments often requires handcrafting the features for a given task. In this paper, we present and evaluate an unsupervised representation learning architecture, Layered Spatiotemporal Memory Long Short-Term Memory (LSTM-LSTM), that learns the underlying representation without knowledge of the task. The goal of this architecture is to learn the dynamics of the environment from high-dimensional raw video inputs. Using a Generative Adversarial Network (GAN) framework with the proposed network, this architecture is able to learn a spatiotemporal representation in its lower-dimensional latent space directly from raw input sequences. We show that our approach learns the spatial and temporal information simultaneously as opposed to a two-stage learning approach of alternating between training a Convolutional Neural Network (ConvNet) and a Long Short-Term Network (LSTM). Furthermore, by using LSTM-LSTM cells that shrink in size with the increase in the number of layers, the network learns a hierarchical representation with a low-dimensional representation at the top layer. We show that this architecture achieves state-of-the-art results with a substantially lower-dimensional representation than existing methods. We evaluate our approach on a video prediction task with standard benchmark datasets like Moving MNIST and KTH Action, as well as a simulated robot dataset.


Title: Belief Regulated Dual Propagation Nets for Learning Action Effects on Groups of Articulated Objects
Abstract: In recent years, graph neural networks have been successfully applied for learning the dynamics of complex and partially observable physical systems. However, their use in the robotics domain is, to date, still limited. In this paper, we introduce Belief Regulated Dual Propagation Networks (BRDPN), a general-purpose learnable physics engine, which enables a robot to predict the effects of its actions in scenes containing groups of articulated multi-part objects. Specifically, our framework extends recently proposed propagation networks (PropNets) and consists of two complementary components, a physics predictor and a belief regulator. While the former predicts the future states of the object(s) manipulated by the robot, the latter constantly corrects the robot's knowledge regarding the objects and their relations. Our results showed that after training in a simulator, the robot can reliably predict the consequences of its actions in object trajectory level and exploit its own interaction experience to correct its belief about the state of the environment, enabling better predictions in partially observable environments. Furthermore, the trained model was transferred to the real world and verified in predicting trajectories of pushed interacting objects whose joint relations were initially unknown. We compared BRDPN against PropNets, and showed that BRDPN performs consistently well. Moreover, BRDPN can adapt its physic predictions, since the relations can be predicted online.


Title: Deep Kinematic Models for Kinematically Feasible Vehicle Trajectory Predictions
Abstract: Self-driving vehicles (SDVs) hold great potential for improving traffic safety and are poised to positively affect the quality of life of millions of people. To unlock this potential one of the critical aspects of the autonomous technology is understanding and predicting future movement of vehicles surrounding the SDV. This work presents a deep-learning- based method for kinematically feasible motion prediction of such traffic actors. Previous work did not explicitly encode vehicle kinematics and instead relied on the models to learn the constraints directly from the data, potentially resulting in kinematically infeasible, suboptimal trajectory predictions. To address this issue we propose a method that seamlessly combines ideas from the AI with physically grounded vehicle motion models. In this way we employ best of the both worlds, coupling powerful learning models with strong feasibility guarantees for their outputs. The proposed approach is general, being applicable to any type of learning method. Extensive experiments using deep convnets on real-world data strongly indicate its benefits, outperforming the existing state-of-the-art.


Title: Predicting Pushing Action Effects on Spatial Object Relations by Learning Internal Prediction Models
Abstract: Understanding the effects of actions is essential for planning and executing robot tasks. By imagining possible action consequences, a robot can choose specific action parameters to achieve desired goal states. We present an approach for parametrizing pushing actions based on learning internal prediction models. These pushing actions must fulfill constraints given by a high-level planner, e. g., after the push the brown box must be to the right of the orange box. In this work, we represent the perceived scenes as object-centric graphs and learn an internal model, which predicts object pose changes due to pushing actions. We train this internal model on a large synthetic data set, which was generated in simulation, and record a smaller data set on the real robot for evaluation. For a given scene and goal state, the robot generates a set of possible pushing action candidates by sampling the parameter space and then evaluating the candidates by internal simulation, i. e., by comparing the predicted effect resulting from the internal model with the desired effect provided by the high-level planner. In the evaluation, we show that our model achieves high prediction accuracy in scenes with a varying number of objects and, in contrast to state-of-the-art approaches, is able to generalize to scenes with more objects than seen during training. In experiments on the humanoid robot ARMAR-6, we validate the transfer from simulation and show that the learned internal model can be used to manipulate scenes into desired states effectively.


Title: Learning of Key Pose Evaluation for Efficient Multi-contact Motion Planner
Abstract: It is necessary to use not only foot but also hand, knee and other body parts to support body weight for locomotion in uneven terrain. Such multi-contact motion planning is an important research topic including lots of previous works; however, a problem of computational speed of planning is still remaining. In this paper, we propose a learning-based algorithm to speed up the planning. The algorithm reduces replanning of contact states by learning an evaluation function of key pose to reach goal. We investigated the learning performance by comparing three neural network configurations and two activation function. This research aims at achieving robust robotics system in unknown environments.


Title: Differentiable Gaussian Process Motion Planning
Abstract: Modern trajectory optimization based approaches to motion planning are fast, easy to implement, and effective on a wide range of robotics tasks. However, trajectory optimization algorithms have parameters that are typically set in advance (and rarely discussed in detail). Setting these parameters properly can have a significant impact on the practical performance of the algorithm, sometimes making the difference between finding a feasible plan or failing at the task entirely. We propose a method for leveraging past experience to learn how to automatically adapt the parameters of Gaussian Process Motion Planning (GPMP) algorithms. Specifically, we propose a differentiable extension to the GPMP2 algorithm, so that it can be trained end-to-end from data. We perform several experiments that validate our algorithm and illustrate the benefits of our proposed learning-based approach to motion planning.


Title: Learn and Link: Learning Critical Regions for Efficient Planning
Abstract: This paper presents a new approach to learning for motion planning (MP) where critical regions of an environment are learned from a given set of motion plans and used to improve performance on new environments and problem instances. We introduce a new suite of sampling-based motion planners, Learn and Link. Our planners leverage critical regions to overcome the limitations of uniform sampling, while still maintaining guarantees of correctness inherent to sampling-based algorithms. We also show that convolutional neural networks (CNNs) can be used to identify critical regions for motion planning problems. We evaluate Learn and Link against planners from the Open Motion Planning Library (OMPL) using an extensive suite of experiments on challenging motion planning problems. We show that our approach requires far less planning time than existing sampling-based planners.


Title: EVDodgeNet: Deep Dynamic Obstacle Dodging with Event Cameras
Abstract: Dynamic obstacle avoidance on quadrotors requires low latency. A class of sensors that are particularly suitable for such scenarios are event cameras. In this paper, we present a deep learning based solution for dodging multiple dynamic obstacles on a quadrotor with a single event camera and on-board computation. Our approach uses a series of shallow neural networks for estimating both the ego-motion and the motion of independently moving objects. The networks are trained in simulation and directly transfer to the real world without any fine-tuning or retraining. We successfully evaluate and demonstrate the proposed approach in many real-world experiments with obstacles of different shapes and sizes, achieving an overall success rate of 70% including objects of unknown shape and a low light testing scenario. To our knowledge, this is the first deep learning - based solution to the problem of dynamic obstacle avoidance using event cameras on a quadrotor. Finally, we also extend our work to the pursuit task by merely reversing the control policy, proving that our navigation stack can cater to different scenarios.


Title: On training datasets for machine learning-based visual relative localization of micro-scale UAVs
Abstract: By leveraging our relative Micro-scale Unmanned Aerial Vehicle localization sensor UVDAR, we generated an automatically annotated dataset MIDGARD, which the community is invited to use for training and testing their machine learning systems for the detection and localization of Microscale Unmanned Aerial Vehicles (MAVs) by other MAVs. Furthermore, we provide our system as a mechanism for rapidly generating custom annotated datasets specifically tailored for the needs of a given application. The recent literature is rich in applications of machine learning methods in automation and robotics. One particular subset of these methods is visual object detection and localization, using means such as Convolutional Neural Networks, which nowadays enable objects to be detected and classified with previously inconceivable precision and reliability. Most of these applications, however, rely on a carefully crafted training dataset of annotated camera footage. These must contain the objects of interest in environments similar to those where the detector is expected to operate. Notably, the positions of the objects must be provided in annotations. For non-laboratory settings, the construction of such datasets requires many man-hours of manual annotation, which is especially the case for use onboard Micro-scale Unmanned Aerial Vehicles. In this paper, we are providing for the community a practical alternative to that kind of approach.


Title: Dynamic Actor-Advisor Programming for Scalable Safe Reinforcement Learning
Abstract: Real-world robots have complex strict constraints. Therefore, safe reinforcement learning algorithms that can simultaneously minimize the total cost and the risk of constraint violation are crucial. However, almost no algorithms exist that can scale to high-dimensional systems to the best of our knowledge. In this paper, we propose Dynamic Actor-Advisor Programming (DAAP), as an algorithm for sample-efficient and scalable safe reinforcement learning. DAAP employs two control policies, actor and advisor. They are updated to minimize total cost and risk of constraint violation intertwiningly and smoothly towards each other's direction by using the other as the baseline policy in the Kullback-Leibler divergence of Dynamic Policy Programming framework. We demonstrate the scalability and sample efficiency of DAAP through its application on simulated robot arm control tasks with performance comparisons to baselines.


Title: Discrete Deep Reinforcement Learning for Mapless Navigation
Abstract: Our goal is to investigate whether discrete state space algorithms are a viable solution to continuous alternatives for mapless navigation. To this end we present an approach based on Double Deep Q-Network and employ parallel asynchronous training and a multi-batch Priority Experience Replay to reduce the training time. Experiments show that our method trains faster and outperforms both the continuous Deep Deterministic Policy Gradient and Proximal Policy Optimization algorithms. Moreover, we train the models in a custom environment built on the recent Unity learning toolkit and show that they can be exported on the TurtleBot3 simulator and to the real robot without further training. Overall our optimized method is 40% faster compared to the original discrete algorithm. This setting significantly reduces the training times with respect to the continuous algorithms, maintaining a similar level of success rate hence being a viable alternative for mapless navigation.


Title: Learning Multi-Robot Decentralized Macro-Action-Based Policies via a Centralized Q-Net
Abstract: In many real-world multi-robot tasks, high-quality solutions often require a team of robots to perform asynchronous actions under decentralized control. Decentralized multi-agent reinforcement learning methods have difficulty learning decentralized policies because of the environment appearing to be non-stationary due to other agents also learning at the same time. In this paper, we address this challenge by proposing a macro-action-based decentralized multi-agent double deep recurrent Q-net (MacDec-MADDRQN) which trains each decentralized Q-net using a centralized Q-net for action selection. A generalized version of MacDec-MADDRQN with two separate training environments, called Parallel-MacDec-MADDRQN, is also presented to leverage either centralized or decentralized exploration. The advantages and the practical nature of our methods are demonstrated by achieving near-centralized results in simulation and having real robots accomplish a warehouse tool delivery task in an efficient way.


Title: Robust Model-free Reinforcement Learning with Multi-objective Bayesian Optimization
Abstract: In reinforcement learning (RL), an autonomous agent learns to perform complex tasks by maximizing an exogenous reward signal while interacting with its environment. In real world applications, test conditions may differ substantially from the training scenario and, therefore, focusing on pure reward maximization during training may lead to poor results at test time. In these cases, it is important to trade-off between performance and robustness while learning a policy. While several results exist for robust, model-based RL, the model-free case has not been widely investigated. In this paper, we cast the robust, model-free RL problem as a multi-objective optimization problem. To quantify the robustness of a policy, we use delay margin and gain margin, two robustness indicators that are common in control theory. We show how these metrics can be estimated from data in the model-free setting. We use multi-objective Bayesian optimization (MOBO) to solve efficiently this expensive-to-evaluate, multi-objective optimization problem. We show the benefits of our robust formulation both in sim-to-real and pure hardware experiments to balance a Furuta pendulum.


Title: Ensemble of Sparse Gaussian Process Experts for Implicit Surface Mapping with Streaming Data
Abstract: Creating maps is an essential task in robotics and provides the basis for effective planning and navigation. In this paper, we learn a compact and continuous implicit surface map of an environment from a stream of range data with known poses. For this, we create and incrementally adjust an ensemble of approximate Gaussian process (GP) experts which are each responsible for a different part of the map. Instead of inserting all arriving data into the GP models, we greedily trade-off between model complexity and prediction error. Our algorithm therefore uses less resources on areas with few geometric features and more where the environment is rich in variety. We evaluate our approach on synthetic and real-world data sets and analyze sensitivity to parameters and measurement noise. The results show that we can learn compact and accurate implicit surface models under different conditions, with a performance comparable to or better than that of exact GP regression with subsampled data.


Title: Multi-Task Learning for Single Image Depth Estimation and Segmentation Based on Unsupervised Network
Abstract: Deep neural networks have significantly enhanced the performance of various computer vision tasks, including single image depth estimation and image segmentation. However, most existing approaches handle them in supervised manners and require a large number of ground truth labels that consume extensive human efforts and are not always available in real scenarios. In this paper, we propose a novel framework to estimate disparity maps and segment images simultaneously by jointly training an encoder-decoder-based interactive convolutional neural network (CNN) for single image depth estimation and a multiple class CNN for image segmentation. Learning the neural network for one task can be beneficial from simultaneously learning from another one under a multi-task learning framework. We show that our proposed model can learn per-pixel depth regression and segmentation from just a single image input. Extensive experiments on available public datasets, including KITTI, Cityscapes urban, and PASCAL-VOC demonstrate the effectiveness of our model compared with other state-of-the-art methods for both tasks.


Title: Sufficiently Accurate Model Learning
Abstract: Modeling how a robot interacts with the environment around it is an important prerequisite for designing control and planning algorithms. In fact, the performance of controllers and planners is highly dependent on the quality of the model. One popular approach is to learn data driven models in order to compensate for inaccurate physical measurements and to adapt to systems that evolve over time. In this paper, we investigate a method to regularize model learning techniques to provide better error characteristics for traditional control and planning algorithms. This work proposes learning "Sufficiently Accurate" models of dynamics using a primal-dual method that can explicitly enforce constraints on the error in pre-defined parts of the state-space. The result of this method is that the error characteristics of the learned model is more predictable and can be better utilized by planning and control algorithms. The characteristics of Sufficiently Accurate models are analyzed through experiments on a simulated ball paddle system.


Title: A Mobile Manipulation System for One-Shot Teaching of Complex Tasks in Homes
Abstract: We describe a mobile manipulation hardware and software system capable of autonomously performing complex human-level tasks in real homes, after being taught the task with a single demonstration from a person in virtual reality. This is enabled by a highly capable mobile manipulation robot, whole-body task space hybrid position/force control, teaching of parameterized primitives linked to a robust learned dense visual embeddings representation of the scene, and a task graph of the taught behaviors. We demonstrate the robustness of the approach by presenting results for performing a variety of tasks, under different environmental conditions, in multiple real homes. Our approach achieves 85% overall success rate on three tasks that consist of an average of 45 behaviors each. The video is available at: https://youtu.be/HSyAGMGikLk.


Title: Task-Aware Novelty Detection for Visual-based Deep Learning in Autonomous Systems
Abstract: Deep-learning driven safety-critical autonomous systems, such as self-driving cars, must be able to detect situations where its trained model is not able to make a trustworthy prediction. This ability to determine the novelty of a new input with respect to a trained model is critical for such systems because novel inputs due to changes in the environment, adversarial attacks, or even unintentional noise can potentially lead to erroneous, perhaps life-threatening decisions. This paper proposes a learning framework that leverages information learned by the prediction model in a task-aware manner to detect novel scenarios. We use network saliency to provide the learning architecture with knowledge of the input areas that are most relevant to the decision-making and learn an association between the saliency map and the predicted output to determine the novelty of the input. We demonstrate the efficacy of this method through experiments on real-world driving datasets as well as through driving scenarios in our in-house indoor driving environment where the novel image can be sampled from another similar driving dataset with similar features or from adversarial attacked images from the training dataset. We find that our method is able to systematically detect novel inputs and quantify the deviation from the target prediction through this task-aware approach.


Title: DirectShape: Direct Photometric Alignment of Shape Priors for Visual Vehicle Pose and Shape Estimation
Abstract: Scene understanding from images is a challenging problem encountered in autonomous driving. On the object level, while 2D methods have gradually evolved from computing simple bounding boxes to delivering finer grained results like instance segmentations, the 3D family is still dominated by estimating 3D bounding boxes. In this paper, we propose a novel approach to jointly infer the 3D rigid-body poses and shapes of vehicles from a stereo image pair using shape priors. Unlike previous works that geometrically align shapes to point clouds from dense stereo reconstruction, our approach works directly on images by combining a photometric and a silhouette alignment term in the energy function. An adaptive sparse point selection scheme is proposed to efficiently measure the consistency with both terms. In experiments, we show superior performance of our method on 3D pose and shape estimation over the previous geometric approach and demonstrate that our method can also be applied as a refinement step and significantly boost the performances of several state-of-the-art deep learning based 3D object detectors. All related materials and demonstration videos are available at the project page https://vision.in.tum.de/research/vslam/direct-shape.


Title: End-to-end Learning for Inter-Vehicle Distance and Relative Velocity Estimation in ADAS with a Monocular Camera
Abstract: Inter-vehicle distance and relative velocity estimations are two basic functions for any ADAS (Advanced driver-assistance systems). In this paper, we propose a monocular camera based inter-vehicle distance and relative velocity estimation method based on end-to-end training of a deep neural network. The key novelty of our method is the integration of multiple visual clues provided by any two time-consecutive monocular frames, which include deep feature clue, scene geometry clue, as well as temporal optical flow clue. We also propose a vehicle-centric sampling mechanism to alleviate the effect of perspective distortion in the motion field (i.e. optical flow). We implement the method by a light-weight deep neural network. Extensive experiments are conducted which confirm the superior performance of our method over other state-of-the-art methods, in terms of estimation accuracy, computational speed, and memory footprint.


Title: Learning an Action-Conditional Model for Haptic Texture Generation
Abstract: Rich haptic sensory feedback in response to user interactions is desirable for an effective, immersive virtual reality or teleoperation system. However, this feedback depends on material properties and user interactions in a complex, non-linear manner. Therefore, it is challenging to model the mapping from material and user interactions to haptic feedback in a way that generalizes over many variations of the user's input. Current methodologies are typically conditioned on user interactions, but require a separate model for each material. In this paper, we present a learned action-conditional model that uses data from a vision-based tactile sensor (GelSight) and user's action as input. This model predicts an induced acceleration that could be used to provide haptic vibration feedback to a user. We trained our proposed model on a publicly available dataset (Penn Haptic Texture Toolkit) that we augmented with GelSight measurements of the different materials. We show that a unified model over all materials outperforms previous methods and generalizes to new actions and new instances of the material categories in the dataset.


Title: Autonomous Tissue Scanning under Free-Form Motion for Intraoperative Tissue Characterisation
Abstract: In Minimally Invasive Surgery (MIS), tissue scanning with imaging probes is required for subsurface visualisation to characterise the state of the tissue. However, scanning of large tissue surfaces in the presence of motion is a challenging task for the surgeon. Recently, robot-assisted local tissue scanning has been investigated for motion stabilisation of imaging probes to facilitate the capturing of good quality images and reduce the surgeon's cognitive load. Nonetheless, these approaches require the tissue surface to be static or translating with periodic motion. To eliminate these assumptions, we propose a visual servoing framework for autonomous tissue scanning, able to deal with free-form tissue motion. The 3D structure of the surgical scene is recovered, and a feature-based method is proposed to estimate the motion of the tissue in real-time. The desired scanning trajectory is manually defined on a reference frame and continuously updated using projective geometry to follow the tissue motion and control the movement of the robotic arm. The advantage of the proposed method is that it does not require the learning of the tissue motion prior to scanning and can deal with free-form motion. We deployed this framework on the da Vinci®surgical robot using the da Vinci Research Kit (dVRK) for Ultrasound tissue scanning. Our framework can be easily extended to other probe-based imaging modalities.


Title: Collision-free Navigation of Human-centered Robots via Markov Games
Abstract: We exploit Markov games as a framework for collision-free navigation of human-centered robots. Unlike the classical methods which formulate robot navigation as a single-agent Markov decision process with a static environment, our framework of Markov games adopts a multi-agent formulation with one primary agent representing the robot and the remaining auxiliary agents form a dynamic or even competing environment. Such a framework allows us to develop a path-following type adversarial training strategy to learn a robust decentralized collision avoidance policy. Through thorough experiments on both simulated and real-world mobile robots, we show that the learnt policy outperforms the state-of-the-art algorithms in both sample complexity and runtime robustness.


Title: DenseCAvoid: Real-time Navigation in Dense Crowds using Anticipatory Behaviors
Abstract: We present DenseCAvoid, a novel algorithm for navigating a robot through dense crowds and avoiding collisions by anticipating pedestrian behaviors. Our formulation uses visual sensors and a pedestrian trajectory prediction algorithm to track pedestrians in a set of input frames and compute bounding boxes that extrapolate to the pedestrian positions in a future time. Our hybrid approach combines this trajectory prediction with a Deep Reinforcement Learning-based collision avoidance method to train a policy to generate smoother, safer, and more robust trajectories during run-time. We train our policy in realistic 3-D simulations of static and dynamic scenarios with multiple pedestrians. In practice, our hybrid approach generalizes well to unseen, real-world scenarios and can navigate a robot through dense crowds (~1-2 humans per square meter) in indoor scenarios, including narrow corridors and lobbies. As compared to cases where prediction was not used, we observe that our method reduces the occurrence of the robot freezing in a crowd by up to 48%, and performs comparably with respect to trajectory lengths and mean arrival times to goal.


Title: A Model-Free Approach to Meta-Level Control of Anytime Algorithms
Abstract: Anytime algorithms offer a trade-off between solution quality and computation time that has proven to be useful in autonomous systems for a wide range of real-time planning problems. In order to optimize this trade-off, an autonomous system has to solve a challenging meta-level control problem: it must decide when to interrupt the anytime algorithm and act on the current solution. Prevailing meta-level control techniques, however, make a number of unrealistic assumptions that reduce their effectiveness and usefulness in the real world. Eliminating these assumptions, we first introduce a model-free approach to meta-level control based on reinforcement learning and prove its optimality. We then offer a general meta-level control technique that can use different reinforcement learning methods. Finally, we show that our approach is effective across several common benchmark domains and a mobile robot domain.


Title: Evaluating Adaptation Performance of Hierarchical Deep Reinforcement Learning
Abstract: Deep Reinforcement Learning has been used to exploit specific environments, but has difficulty transferring learned policies to new situations. This issue poses a problem for practical applications of Reinforcement Learning, as real-world scenarios may introduce unexpected differences that drastically reduce policy performance. We propose the use of differentiated sub-policies governed by a hierarchical controller to support adaptation in such scenarios. We also introduce a confidence- based training process for the hierarchical controller which improves training stability and convergence times. We evaluate these methods in a new Capture the Flag environment designed to explore adaptation in autonomous multi-agent settings.


Title: Reactive Temporal Logic Planning for Multiple Robots in Unknown Environments
Abstract: This paper proposes a new reactive mission planning algorithm for multiple robots that operate in unknown environments. The robots are equipped with individual sensors that allow them to collectively learn and continuously update a map of the unknown environment. The goal of the robots is to accomplish complex tasks, captured by global co-safe Linear Temporal Logic (LTL) formulas. The majority of existing temporal logic planning approaches rely on discrete abstractions of the robot dynamics operating in known environments and, as a result, they cannot be applied to the more realistic scenarios where the environment is initially unknown. In this paper, we address this novel challenge by proposing the first reactive, and abstraction-free LTL planning algorithm that can be applied for complex mission planning of multiple robots operating in unknown environments. Our algorithm is reactive in the sense that temporal logic planning is adapting to the updated map of the environment and abstraction-free as it does not rely on designing abstractions of robot dynamics. Our proposed algorithm is complete under mild assumptions on the structure of the environment and the sensor models. Our paper provides extensive numerical simulations and hardware experiments that illustrate the theoretical analysis and show that the proposed algorithm can address complex planning tasks in unknown environments.


Title: Higher Order Function Networks for View Planning and Multi-View Reconstruction
Abstract: We consider the problem of planning views for a robot to acquire images of an object for visual inspection and reconstruction. In contrast to offline methods which require a 3D model of the object as input or online methods which rely on only local measurements, our method uses a neural network which encodes shape information for a large number of objects. We build on recent deep learning methods capable of generating a complete 3D reconstruction of an object from a single image. Specifically, in this work, we extend a recent method which uses Higher Order Functions (HOF) to represent the shape of the object. We present a new generalization of this method to incorporate multiple images as input and establish a connection between visibility and reconstruction quality. This relationship forms the foundation of our view planning method where we compute viewpoints to visually cover the output of the multiview HOF network with as few images as possible. Experiments indicate that our method provides a good compromise between online and offline methods: Similar to online methods, our method does not require the true object model as input. In terms of number of views, it is much more efficient. In most cases, its performance is comparable to the optimal offline case even on object classes the network has not been trained on.


Title: Residual Reactive Navigation: Combining Classical and Learned Navigation Strategies For Deployment in Unknown Environments
Abstract: In this work we focus on improving the efficiency and generalisation of learned navigation strategies when transferred from its training environment to previously unseen ones. We present an extension of the residual reinforcement learning framework from the robotic manipulation literature and adapt it to the vast and unstructured environments that mobile robots can operate in. The concept is based on learning a residual control effect to add to a typical sub-optimal classical controller in order to close the performance gap, whilst guiding the exploration process during training for improved data efficiency. We exploit this tight coupling and propose a novel deployment strategy, switching Residual Reactive Navigation (sRRN), which yields efficient trajectories whilst probabilistically switching to a classical controller in cases of high policy uncertainty. Our approach achieves improved performance over end-to-end alternatives and can be incorporated as part of a complete navigation stack for cluttered indoor navigation tasks in the real world. The code and training environment for this project is made publicly available at https://sites.google.com/view/srrn/home.


Title: Learning Continuous 3D Reconstructions for Geometrically Aware Grasping
Abstract: Deep learning has enabled remarkable improvements in grasp synthesis for previously unseen objects from partial object views. However, existing approaches lack the ability to explicitly reason about the full 3D geometry of the object when selecting a grasp, relying on indirect geometric reasoning derived when learning grasp success networks. This abandons explicit geometric reasoning, such as avoiding undesired robot object collisions. We propose to utilize a novel, learned 3D reconstruction to enable geometric awareness in a grasping system. We leverage the structure of the reconstruction network to learn a grasp success classifier which serves as the objective function for a continuous grasp optimization. We additionally explicitly constrain the optimization to avoid undesired contact, directly using the reconstruction. We examine the role of geometry in grasping both in the training of grasp metrics and through 96 robot grasping trials. Our results can be found on https://sites.google.com/view/reconstruction-grasp/.


