total paper: 187
Title: Advanced BIT* (ABIT*): Sampling-Based Planning with Advanced Graph-Search Techniques
Abstract: Path planning is an active area of research essential for many applications in robotics. Popular techniques include graph-based searches and sampling-based planners. These approaches are powerful but have limitations.This paper continues work to combine their strengths and mitigate their limitations using a unified planning paradigm. It does this by viewing the path planning problem as the two subproblems of search and approximation and using advanced graph-search techniques on a sampling-based approximation.This perspective leads to Advanced BIT*. ABIT* combines truncated anytime graph-based searches, such as ATD*, with anytime almost-surely asymptotically optimal sampling-based planners, such as RRT*. This allows it to quickly find initial solutions and then converge towards the optimum in an anytime manner. ABIT* outperforms existing single-query, sampling- based planners on the tested problems in ℝ4 and ℝ8, and was demonstrated on real-world problems with NASA/JPL-Caltech.


Title: Voxel-based General Voronoi Diagram for Complex Data with Application on Motion Planning
Abstract: One major challenge in Assembly Sequence Planning (ASP) for complex real-world CAD-scenarios is to find appropriate disassembly paths for all assembled parts. Such a path places demands on its length and clearance. In the past, it became apparent that planning the disassembly path based on the (approximate) General Voronoi Diagram (GVD) is a good approach to achieve these requirements. But for complex real-world data, every known solution for computing the GVD is either too slow or very memory consuming, even if only approximating the GVD.We present a new approach for computing the approximate GVD and demonstrate its practicability using a representative vehicle data set. We can calculate an approximation of the GVD within minutes and meet the accuracy requirement of some few millimeters for the subsequent path planning. This is achieved by voxelizing the surface with a common error-bounded GPU render approach. We then use an error-bounded wavefront propagation technique and combine it with a novel hash table-based data structure, the so-called Voronoi Voxel History (VVH). On top of the GVD, we present a novel approach for the creation of a General Voronoi Diagram Graph (GVDG) that leads to an extensive roadmap. For the later motion planning task this roadmap can be used to suggest appropriate disassembly paths.


Title: Motion Primitives-based Path Planning for Fast and Agile Exploration using Aerial Robots
Abstract: This paper presents a novel path planning strategy for fast and agile exploration using aerial robots. Tailored to the combined need for large-scale exploration of challenging and confined environments, despite the limited endurance of micro aerial vehicles, the proposed planner employs motion primitives to identify admissible paths that search the configuration space, while exploiting the dynamic flight properties of small aerial robots. Utilizing a computationally efficient volumetric representation of the environment, the planner provides fast collision-free and future-safe paths that maximize the expected exploration gain and ensure continuous fast navigation through the unknown environment. The new method is field-verified in a set of deployments relating to subterranean exploration and specifically, in both modern and abandoned underground mines in Northern Nevada utilizing a 0.55m-wide collision-tolerant flying robot exploring with a speed of up to 2m/s and navigating sections with width as small as 0.8m.


Title: Optimized Foothold Planning and Posture Searching for Energy-Efficient Quadruped Locomotion over Challenging Terrains
Abstract: Energy-efficient locomotion is of primary importance for legged robot to extend operation time in practical applications. This paper presents an approach to achieve energy-efficient locomotion for a quadrupedal robot walking over challenging terrains. Firstly, we optimize the nominal stance parameters based on the analysis of leg torque distribution. Secondly, we proposed the foothold planner and the center of gravity (COG) trajectory planner working together to guide the robot to place its standing legs in an energy-saving stance posture. We have validated the effectiveness of our method on a real quadrupedal robot in experiments including autonomously walking on plain ground and climbing stairs.


Title: Learning Generalizable Locomotion Skills with Hierarchical Reinforcement Learning
Abstract: Learning to locomote to arbitrary goals on hardware remains a challenging problem for reinforcement learning. In this paper, we present a hierarchical framework that improves sample-efficiency and generalizability of learned locomotion skills on real-world robots. Our approach divides the problem of goal-oriented locomotion into two sub-problems: learning diverse primitives skills, and using model-based planning to sequence these skills. We parametrize our primitives as cyclic movements, improving sample-efficiency of learning from scratch on a 18 degrees of freedom robot. Then, we learn coarse dynamics models over primitive cycles and use them in a model predictive control framework. This allows us to learn to walk to arbitrary goals up to 12m away, after about two hours of training from scratch on hardware. Our results on a Daisy hexapod hardware and simulation demonstrate the efficacy of our approach at reaching distant targets, in different environments, and with sensory noise.


Title: Efficient Multi-Agent Trajectory Planning with Feasibility Guarantee using Relative Bernstein Polynomial
Abstract: This paper presents a new efficient algorithm which guarantees a solution for a class of multi-agent trajectory planning problems in obstacle-dense environments. Our algorithm combines the advantages of both grid-based and optimization-based approaches, and generates safe, dynamically feasible trajectories without suffering from an erroneous optimization setup such as imposing infeasible collision constraints. We adopt a sequential optimization method with dummy agents to improve the scalability of the algorithm, and utilize the convex hull property of Bernstein and relative Bernstein polynomial to replace non-convex collision avoidance constraints to convex ones. The proposed method can compute the trajectory for 64 agents on average 6.36 seconds with Intel Core i7-7700 @ 3.60GHz CPU and 16G RAM, and it reduces more than 50% of the objective cost compared to our previous work. We validate the proposed algorithm through simulation and flight tests.


Title: Optimal Sequential Task Assignment and Path Finding for Multi-Agent Robotic Assembly Planning
Abstract: We study the problem of sequential task assignment and collision-free routing for large teams of robots in applications with inter-task precedence constraints (e.g., task A and task B must both be completed before task C may begin). Such problems commonly occur in assembly planning for robotic manufacturing applications, in which sub-assemblies must be completed before they can be combined to form the final product. We propose a hierarchical algorithm for computing makespan-optimal solutions to the problem. The algorithm is evaluated on a set of randomly generated problem instances where robots must transport objects between stations in a "factory" grid world environment. In addition, we demonstrate in high-fidelity simulation that the output of our algorithm can be used to generate collision-free trajectories for non-holonomic differential-drive robots.


Title: Adaptive Directional Path Planner for Real-Time, Energy-Efficient, Robust Navigation of Mobile Robots
Abstract: Autonomous navigation through unknown and complex environments is a fundamental capability that is essential in almost all robotic applications. Optimal robot path planning is critical to enable efficient navigation. Path planning is a complex, compute and memory intensive task. Traditional methods employ either graph based search methods or sample based methods to implement path planning, which are sub-optimal and compute/memory-intensive. To this end, an Adaptive Directional Planner (ADP) algorithm is devised to achieve real-time, energy-efficient, memory-optimized, robust local path planning for enabling efficient autonomous navigation of mobile robots. The ADP algorithm ensures that the paths are optimal and kinematically-feasible. Further, the proposed algorithm is tested with different challenging scenarios verifying the functionality and robustness. The ADP algorithm implementation results demonstrate 40- 60X less number of nodes and 40 - 50X less execution time compared to the standard TP-RRT schemes, without compromising on accuracy. Finally, the algorithm has also been implemented as an accelerator for non-holonomic, multi-shape, small form factor mobile robots to provide a silicon solution with high performance and low memory footprint (28KB).


Title: Wasserstein Distributionally Robust Motion Planning and Control with Safety Constraints Using Conditional Value-at-Risk
Abstract: In this paper, we propose an optimization-based decision-making tool for safe motion planning and control in an environment with randomly moving obstacles. The unique feature of the proposed method is that it limits the risk of unsafety by a pre-specified threshold even when the true probability distribution of the obstacles' movements deviates, within a Wasserstein ball, from an available empirical distribution. Another advantage is that it provides a probabilistic out-of-sample performance guarantee of the risk constraint. To develop a computationally tractable method for solving the distributionally robust model predictive control problem, we propose a set of reformulation procedures using (i) the Kantorovich duality principle, (ii) the extremal representation of conditional value-at-risk, and (iii) a geometric expression of the distance to the union of halfspaces. The performance and utility of this distributionally robust method are demonstrated through simulations using a 12D quadrotor model in a 3D environment.


Title: Grasping Fragile Objects Using A Stress-Minimization Metric
Abstract: We present a new method to generate optimal grasps for brittle and fragile objects using a novel stress- minimization (SM) metric. Our approach is designed for objects that are composed of homogeneous isotopic materials. Our SM metric measures the maximal resistible external wrenches that would not result in fractures in the target objects. In this paper, we propose methods to compute our new metric. We also use our SM metric to design optimal grasp planning algorithms. Finally, we compare the performance of our metric and conventional grasp metrics, including Q1,Q∞,QG11,QMSV,QVEW. Our experiments show that our SM metric takes into account the material characteristics and object shapes to indicate the fragile regions, where prior methods may not work well. We also show that the computational cost of our SM metric is on par with prior methods. Finally, we show that grasp planners guided by our metric can lower the probability of breaking target objects.


Title: Grasp Control for Enhancing Dexterity of Parallel Grippers
Abstract: A robust grasp controller for both slipping avoidance and controlled sliding is proposed based on force/tactile feedback only. The model-based algorithm exploits a modified LuGre friction model to consider rotational frictional sliding motions. The modification relies on the Limit Surface concept where a novel computationally efficient method is introduced to compute in real-time the minimum grasping force to balance tangential and torsional loads. The two control modalities are considered by the robot motion planning algorithm that automatically generates robot motions and gripper commands to solve complex manipulation tasks in a material handling application.


Title: Beyond Top-Grasps Through Scene Completion
Abstract: Current end-to-end grasp planning methods propose grasps in the order of seconds that attain high grasp success rates on a diverse set of objects, but often by constraining the workspace to top-grasps. In this work, we present a method that allows end-to-end top-grasp planning methods to generate full six-degree-of-freedom grasps using a single RGBD view as input. This is achieved by estimating the complete shape of the object to be grasped, then simulating different viewpoints of the object, passing the simulated viewpoints to an end-to-end grasp generation method, and finally executing the overall best grasp. The method was experimentally validated on a Franka Emika Panda by comparing 429 grasps generated by the state-of-the-art Fully Convolutional Grasp Quality CNN, both on simulated and real camera images. The results show statistically significant improvements in terms of grasp success rate when using simulated images over real camera images, especially when the real camera viewpoint is angled. Code and video are available at https://irobotics.aalto.fi/beyond-topgrasps-through-scene-completion/.


Title: Dex-Net AR: Distributed Deep Grasp Planning Using a Commodity Cellphone and Augmented Reality App
Abstract: Consumer demand for augmented reality (AR) in mobile phone applications, such as the Apple ARKit. Such applications have potential to expand access to robot grasp planning systems such as Dex-Net. AR apps use structure from motion methods to compute a point cloud from a sequence of RGB images taken by the camera as it is moved around an object. However, the resulting point clouds are often noisy due to estimation errors. We present a distributed pipeline, Dex-Net AR, that allows point clouds to be uploaded to a server in our lab, cleaned, and evaluated by Dex-Net grasp planner to generate a grasp axis that is returned and displayed as an overlay on the object. We implement Dex-Net AR using the iPhone and ARKit and compare results with those generated with high-performance depth sensors. The success rates with AR on harder adversarial objects are higher than traditional depth images. The server URL is https://sites.google.com/berkeley.edu/dex-net-ar/home.


Title: Center-of-Mass-based Robust Grasp Planning for Unknown Objects Using Tactile-Visual Sensors
Abstract: An unstable grasp pose can lead to slip, thus an unstable grasp pose can be predicted by slip detection. A regrasp is required afterwards to correct the grasp pose in order to finish the task. In this work, we propose a novel regrasp planner with multi-sensor modules to plan grasp adjustments with the feedback from a slip detector. Then a regrasp planner is trained to estimate the location of center of mass, which helps robots find an optimal grasp pose. The dataset in this work consists of 1 025 slip experiments and 1 347 regrasps collected by one pair of tactile sensors, an RGB-D camera and one Franka Emika robot arm equipped with joint force/torque sensors. We show that our algorithm can successfully detect and classify the slip for 5 unknown test objects with an accuracy of 76.88% and a regrasp planner increases the grasp success rate by 31.0% compared to the state-of-the-art vision-based grasping algorithm.


Title: Scaling Local Control to Large-Scale Topological Navigation
Abstract: Visual topological navigation has been revitalized recently thanks to the advancement of deep learning that substantially improves robot perception. However, the scalability and reliability issue remain challenging due to the complexity and ambiguity of real world images and mechanical constraints of real robots. We present an intuitive approach to show that by accurately measuring the capability of a local controller, large-scale visual topological navigation can be achieved while being scalable and robust. Our approach achieves state-of-the-art results in trajectory following and planning in large-scale environments. It also generalizes well to real robots and new environments without retraining or finetuning.


Title: Hierarchical Planning in Time-Dependent Flow Fields for Marine Robots
Abstract: We present an efficient approach for finding shortest paths in flow fields that vary as a sequence of flow predictions over time. This approach is applicable to motion planning for slow marine robots that are subject to dynamic ocean currents. Although the problem is NP-hard in general form, we incorporate recent results from the theory of finding shortest paths in time-dependent graphs to construct a polynomial-time algorithm that finds continuous trajectories in time-dependent flow fields. The algorithm has a hierarchical structure where a graph is constructed with time-varying edge costs that are derived from sets of continuous trajectories in the underlying flow field. We show that the continuous algorithm retains the time complexity and path quality properties of the discrete graph solution, and demonstrate its application to surface and underwater vehicles including a traversal along the East Australian Current with an autonomous marine vehicle. Results show that the algorithm performs efficiently in practice and can find paths that adapt to changing ocean currents. These results are significant to marine robotics because they allow for efficient use of time-varying ocean predictions for motion planning.


Title: Navigation in the Presence of Obstacles for an Agile Autonomous Underwater Vehicle
Abstract: Navigation underwater traditionally is done by keeping a safe distance from obstacles, resulting in "fly-overs" of the area of interest. Movement of an autonomous underwater vehicle (AUV) through a cluttered space, such as a shipwreck or a decorated cave, is an extremely challenging problem that has not been addressed in the past. This paper proposes a novel navigation framework utilizing an enhanced version of Trajopt for fast 3D path-optimization planning for AUVs. A sampling-based correction procedure ensures that the planning is not constrained by local minima, enabling navigation through narrow spaces. Two different modalities are proposed: planning with a known map results in efficient trajectories through cluttered spaces; operating in an unknown environment utilizes the point cloud from the visual features detected to navigate efficiently while avoiding the detected obstacles. The proposed approach is rigorously tested, both on simulation and in-pool experiments, proven to be fast enough to enable safe real-time 3D autonomous navigation for an AUV.


Title: Uncertainty Measured Markov Decision Process in Dynamic Environments
Abstract: Successful robot path planning is challenging in the presence of visual occlusions and moving targets. Classical methods to solve this problem have used visioning and perception algorithms in addition to partially observable markov decision processes to aid in path planning for pursuit-evasion and robot tracking. We present a predictive path planning process that measures and utilizes the uncertainty present during robot motion planning. We develop a variant of subjective logic in combination with the Markov decision process (MDP) and provide a measure for belief, disbelief, and uncertainty in relation to feasible trajectories being generated. We then model the MDP to identify the best path planning method from a list of possible choices. Our results show a high percentage accuracy based on the closest acquired proximity between a target and a tracking robot and a simplified pursuer trajectory in comparison with related work.


Title: Learning error models for graph SLAM
Abstract: Following recent developments, this paper investigates the possibility to predict uncertainty models for monocular graph SLAM using topological features of the problem. An architecture to learn relative (i.e. inter-keyframe) uncertainty models using the resistance distance in the covisibility graph is presented. The proposed architecture is applied to simulated UAV coverage path planning trajectories and an analysis of the approaches strengths and shortcomings is provided.


Title: Real-Time UAV Path Planning for Autonomous Urban Scene Reconstruction
Abstract: Unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs) are frequently used for large-scale scene mapping and reconstruction. However, in most cases, drones are operated manually, which should be more effective and intelligent. In this article, we present a method of real-time UAV path planning for autonomous urban scene reconstruction. Considering the obstacles and time costs, we utilize the top view to generate the initial path. Then we estimate the building heights and take close-up pictures that reveal building details through a SLAM framework. To predict the coverage of the scene, we propose a novel method which combines information on reconstructed point clouds and possible coverage areas. The experimental results reveal that the reconstruction quality of our method is good enough. Our method is also more time-saving than the state-of-the-arts.


Title: A Fast Marching Gradient Sampling Strategy for Motion Planning using an Informed Certificate Set
Abstract: We present a novel fast marching gradient sampling strategy to accelerate the convergence speed of sampling-based motion planning algorithms. This strategy is based on an informed certificate set which consists of the robot states with exact collision status as well as the minimum distance and the gradient to the nearest obstacle. The informed certificate set covers almost the whole planning space such that it contains rich information for the planner. The best quality point in this set is selected as the marching seed to guide the search graph move steadily to the goal set. The distance and gradient information of the marching seed helps to generate a new sample with almost sure collision status. When a feasible solution has been found, this set can construct the restricted subset that can improve current path quality. This marching gradient sampling strategy is applied to the RRT and RRT* algorithms. Simulation experiments demonstrate that the convergence speed to a feasible solution or to the optimal solution is almost twice faster than that of the safety certificate algorithms.


Title: Privacy-Aware UAV Flights through Self-Configuring Motion Planning
Abstract: During flights, an unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV) may not be allowed to move across certain areas due to soft constraints such as privacy restrictions. Current methods on self-adaption focus mostly on motion planning such that the trajectory does not trespass predetermined restricted areas. When the environment is cluttered with uncertain obstacles, however, these motion planning algorithms are not flexible enough to find a trajectory that satisfies additional privacy-preserving requirements within a tight time budget during the flights. In this paper, we propose a privacy risk aware motion planning method through the reconfiguration of privacy-sensitive sensors. It minimises environmental impact by re-configuring the sensor during flight, while still guaranteeing the safety and energy hard constraints such as collision avoidance and timeliness. First, we formulate a model for assessing privacy risks of dynamically detected restricted areas. In case the UAV cannot find a feasible solution to satisfy both hard and soft constraints from the current configuration, our decision making method can then produce an optimal reconfiguration of the privacy-sensitive sensor with a more efficient trajectory. We evaluate the proposal through various simulations with different settings in a virtual environment and also validate the approach through real test flights on DJI Matrice 100 UAV.


Title: Improved C-Space Exploration and Path Planning for Robotic Manipulators Using Distance Information
Abstract: We present a simple method to quickly explore C-spaces of robotic manipulators and thus facilitate path planning. The method is based on a novel geometrical structure called generalized bur. It is a star-like tree, rooted at a given point in free C-space, with an arbitrary number of guaranteed collision-free edges computed using distance information from the workspace and simple forward kinematics. Generalized bur captures large portions of free C-space, enabling accelerated exploration. The workspace is assumed to be decomposable into a finite set of (possibly overlapping) convex obstacles. When plugged in a suitable RRT-like planning algorithm, generalized burs enable significant performance improvements, while at the same time enabling exact collision-free paths.


Title: Robust Real-time UAV Replanning Using Guided Gradient-based Optimization and Topological Paths
Abstract: Gradient-based trajectory optimization (GTO) has gained wide popularity for quadrotor trajectory replanning. However, it suffers from local minima, which is not only fatal to safety but also unfavorable for smooth navigation. In this paper, we propose a replanning method based on GTO addressing this issue systematically. A path-guided optimization (PGO) approach is devised to tackle infeasible local minima, which improves the replanning success rate significantly. A topological path searching algorithm is developed to capture a collection of distinct useful paths in 3-D environments, each of which then guides an independent trajectory optimization. It activates a more comprehensive exploration of the solution space and output superior replanned trajectories. Benchmark evaluation shows that our method outplays state-of-the-art methods regarding replanning success rate and optimality. Challenging experiments of aggressive autonomous flight are presented to demonstrate the robustness of our method. We will release our implementation as an open-source package1.


Title: Learning-based Path Planning for Autonomous Exploration of Subterranean Environments
Abstract: In this work we present a new methodology on learning-based path planning for autonomous exploration of subterranean environments using aerial robots. Utilizing a recently proposed graph-based path planner as a "training expert" and following an approach relying on the concepts of imitation learning, we derive a trained policy capable of guiding the robot to autonomously explore underground mine drifts and tunnels. The algorithm utilizes only a short window of range data sampled from the onboard LiDAR and achieves an exploratory behavior similar to that of the training expert with a more than an order of magnitude reduction in computational cost, while simultaneously relaxing the need to maintain a consistent and online reconstructed map of the environment. The trained path planning policy is extensively evaluated both in simulation and experimentally within field tests relating to the autonomous exploration of underground mines.


Title: Learning to Drive Off Road on Smooth Terrain in Unstructured Environments Using an On-Board Camera and Sparse Aerial Images
Abstract: We present a method for learning to drive on smooth terrain while simultaneously avoiding collisions in challenging off-road and unstructured outdoor environments using only visual inputs. Our approach applies a hybrid model-based and model-free reinforcement learning method that is entirely self-supervised in labeling terrain roughness and collisions using on-board sensors. Notably, we provide both first-person and overhead aerial image inputs to our model. We nd that the fusion of these complementary inputs improves planning foresight and makes the model robust to visual obstructions. Our results show the ability to generalize to environments with plentiful vegetation, various types of rock, and sandy trails. During evaluation, our policy attained 90% smooth terrain traversal and reduced the proportion of rough terrain driven over by 6.1 times compared to a model using only first-person imagery. Video and project details can be found at www.cim.mcgill.ca/mrl/offroad_driving/.


Title: Reliable Trajectories for Dynamic Quadrupeds using Analytical Costs and Learned Initializations
Abstract: Dynamic traversal of uneven terrain is a major objective in the field of legged robotics. The most recent model predictive control approaches for these systems can generate robust dynamic motion of short duration; however, planning over a longer time horizon may be necessary when navigating complex terrain. A recently-developed framework, Trajectory Optimization for Walking Robots (TOWR), computes such plans but does not guarantee their reliability on real platforms, under uncertainty and perturbations. We extend TOWR with analytical costs to generate trajectories that a state-of-the-art whole-body tracking controller can successfully execute. To reduce online computation time, we implement a learning-based scheme for initialization of the nonlinear program based on offline experience. The execution of trajectories as long as 16 footsteps and 5.5 s over different terrains by a real quadruped demonstrates the effectiveness of the approach on hardware. This work builds toward an online system which can efficiently and robustly replan dynamic trajectories.


Title: On the Hardware Feasibility of Nonlinear Trajectory Optimization for Legged Locomotion based on a Simplified Dynamics
Abstract: Simplified models are useful to increase the computational efficiency of a motion planning algorithm, but their lack of accuracy have to be managed. We propose two feasibility constraints to be included in a Single Rigid Body Dynamics-based trajectory optimizer in order to obtain robust motions in challenging terrain. The first one finds an approximate relationship between joint-torque limits and admissible contact forces, without requiring the joint positions. The second one proposes a leg model to prevent leg collision with the environment. Such constraints have been included in a simplified nonlinear non-convex trajectory optimization problem. We demonstrate the feasibility of the resulting motion plans both in simulation and on the Hydraulically actuated Quadruped (HyQ) robot, considering experiments on an irregular terrain.


Title: Agile Legged-Wheeled Reconfigurable Navigation Planner Applied on the CENTAURO Robot
Abstract: Hybrid legged-wheeled robots such as the CEN-TAURO, are capable of varying their footprint polygon to carry out various agile motions. This property can be advantageous for wheeled-only planning in cluttered spaces, which is our focus. In this paper, we present an improved algorithm that builds upon our previously introduced preliminary footprint varying A* planner, which was based on the rectangular symmetry of the foot support polygon. In particular, we introduce a Theta* based planner with trapezium-like search, which aims to further reduce the limitations imposed upon the wheeled-only navigation of the CENTAURO robot by the low-dimensional search space, maintaining the real-time computational efficiency. The method is tested on the simulated and real full-size CENTAURO robot in cluttered environments.


Title: Planning for the Unexpected: Explicitly Optimizing Motions for Ground Uncertainty in Running
Abstract: We propose a method to generate actuation plans for a reduced order, dynamic model of bipedal running. This method explicitly enforces robustness to ground uncertainty. The plan generated is not a fixed body trajectory that is aggressively stabilized: instead, the plan interacts with the passive dynamics of the reduced order model to create emergent robustness. The goal is to create plans for legged robots that will be robust to imperfect perception of the environment, and to work with dynamics that are too complex to optimize in real-time. Working within this dynamic model of legged locomotion, we optimize a set of disturbance cases together with the nominal case, all with linked inputs. The input linking is nontrivial due to the hybrid dynamics of the running model but our solution is effective and has analytical gradients. The optimization procedure proposed is significantly slower than a standard trajectory optimization, but results in robust gaits that reject disturbances extremely effectively without any replanning required.


Title: One-Shot Multi-Path Planning for Robotic Applications Using Fully Convolutional Networks
Abstract: Path planning is important for robot action execution, since a path or a motion trajectory for a particular action has to be defined first before the action can be executed. Most of the current approaches are iterative methods where the trajectory is generated by predicting the next state based on the current state. Here we propose a novel method by utilising a fully convolutional neural network, which allows generation of complete paths even for several agents with one network prediction iteration. We demonstrate that our method is able to successfully generate optimal or close to optimal paths (less than 10% longer) in more than 99% of the cases for single path predictions in 2D and 3D environments. Furthermore, we show that the network is - without specific training on such cases - able to create (close to) optimal paths in 96% of the cases for two and in 84% of the cases for three simultaneously generated paths.


Title: Enhancing Grasp Pose Computation in Gripper Workspace Spheres
Abstract: In this paper, enhancement to the novel grasp planning algorithm based on gripper workspace spheres is presented. Our development requires a registered point cloud of the target from different views, assuming no prior knowledge of the object, nor any of its properties. This work features a new set of metrics for grasp pose candidates evaluation, as well as exploring the impact of high object sampling on grasp success rates. In addition to gripper position sampling, we now perform orientation sampling about the x, y, and z-axes, hence the grasping algorithm no longer require object orientation estimation. Successful experiments have been conducted on a simple jaw gripper (Franka Panda gripper) as well as a complex, high Degree of Freedom (DoF) hand (Allegro hand) as a proof of its versatility. Higher grasp success rates of 76% and 85.5% respectively has been reported by real world experiments.


Title: Enabling Topological Planning with Monocular Vision
Abstract: Topological strategies for navigation meaningfully reduce the space of possible actions available to a robot, allowing use of heuristic priors or learning to enable computationally efficient, intelligent planning. The challenges in estimating structure with monocular SLAM in low texture or highly cluttered environments have precluded its use for topological planning in the past. We propose a robust sparse map representation that can be built with monocular vision and overcomes these shortcomings. Using a learned sensor, we estimate high-level structure of an environment from streaming images by detecting sparse "vertices" (e.g., boundaries of walls) and reasoning about the structure between them. We also estimate the known free space in our map, a necessary feature for planning through previously unknown environments. We show that our mapping technique can be used on real data and is sufficient for planning and exploration in simulated multi-agent search and learned subgoal planning applications.


Title: VariPath: A Database for Modelling the Variance of Human Pathways in Manual and HRC Processes with Heavy-Duty Robots
Abstract: Unlike robots, humans do not have constant movements. Their pathways are individually changeable and influenced by circumstances. This paper presents a method to investigate human pathway variations in a real study. In systematically selected tasks, human pathways are examined for 100 participants in manual and human-robot collaboration (HRC) scenarios. As a result, the variations of pathways are presented depending on various features: e.g. in nearly all cases the variance of women's walking pathways is smaller than that of men. VariPath database can be used in any planning process of manual or HRC scenarios to ensure safety and efficiency.


Title: Distance and Steering Heuristics for Streamline-Based Flow Field Planning
Abstract: Motion planning for vehicles under the influence of flow fields can benefit from the idea of streamline-based planning, which exploits ideas from fluid dynamics to achieve computational efficiency. Important to such planners is an efficient means of computing the travel distance and direction between two points in free space, but this is difficult to achieve in strong incompressible flows such as ocean currents. We propose two useful distance functions in analytical form that combine Euclidean distance with values of the stream function associated with a flow field, and with an estimation of the strength of the opposing flow between two points. Further, we propose steering heuristics that are useful for steering towards a sampled point. We evaluate these ideas by integrating them with RRT* and comparing the algorithm's performance with state-of-the-art methods in an artificial flow field and in actual ocean prediction data in the region of the dominant East Australian Current between Sydney and Brisbane. Results demonstrate the method's computational efficiency and ability to find high-quality paths outperforming state-of-the-art methods, and show promise for practical use with autonomous marine robots.


Title: VALID: A Comprehensive Virtual Aerial Image Dataset
Abstract: Aerial imagery plays an important role in land-use planning, population analysis, precision agriculture, and unmanned aerial vehicle tasks. However, existing aerial image datasets generally suffer from the problem of inaccurate labeling, single ground truth type, and few category numbers. In this work, we implement a simulator that can simultaneously acquire diverse visual ground truth data in the virtual environment. Based on that, we collect a comprehensive Virtual AeriaL Image Dataset named VALID, consisting of 6690 high-resolution images, all annotated with panoptic segmentation on 30 categories, object detection with oriented bounding box, and binocular depth maps, collected in 6 different virtual scenes and 5 various ambient conditions (sunny, dusk, night, snow and fog). To our knowledge, VALID is the first aerial image dataset that can provide panoptic level segmentation and complete dense depth maps. We analyze the characteristics of VALID and evaluate state-of-the-art methods for multiple tasks to provide reference baselines. The experiment results demonstrate that VALID is well presented and challenging. The dataset is available at https://sites.google.com/view/valid-dataset/.


Title: A New Path Planning Architecture to Consider Motion Uncertainty in Natural Environment
Abstract: This paper proposes a new path planning algorithm to consider motion uncertainty for wheeled robots in rough environments. The proposed method uses particles to express the uncertainty propagation in complicated environments constructed with various types of terrain. Also, RRT (Rapidly-exploring Random Tree) is expanded based on the uncertainty of each node in order to prevent increasing the accumulated position uncertainty. As a result, the generated path reduces the times of path-following and re-planning based on inaccurate localization information. The effectiveness of the proposed method is evaluated in simulation using motion uncertainty models obtained by experiments. The results show that the proposed method decreases the position uncertainty while keeping the probability to avoid collisions and to reach the goal area compared with conventional approaches.


Title: Revisiting the Asymptotic Optimality of RRT*
Abstract: RRT* is one of the most widely used sampling-based algorithms for asymptotically-optimal motion planning. RRT* laid the foundations for optimality in motion planning as a whole, and inspired the development of numerous new algorithms in the field, many of which build upon RRT* itself. In this paper, we first identify a logical gap in the optimality proof of RRT*, which was developed by Karaman and Frazzoli (2011). Then, we present an alternative and mathematically-rigorous proof for asymptotic optimality. Our proof suggests that the connection radius used by RRT* should be increased from γ (log n/n)1/d to γ' (log n/n)1/(d+1) in order to account n n for the additional dimension of time that dictates the samples' ordering. Here γ, γ' are constants, and n, d are the number of samples and the dimension of the problem, respectively.


Title: Sample Complexity of Probabilistic Roadmaps via ε-nets
Abstract: We study fundamental theoretical aspects of probabilistic roadmaps (PRM) in the finite time (non-asymptotic) regime. In particular, we investigate how completeness and optimality guarantees of the approach are influenced by the underlying deterministic sampling distribution X and connection radius r > 0. We develop the notion of (δ, ε)-completeness of the parameters X, r, which indicates that for every motion-planning problem of clearance at least δ > 0, PRM using X, r returns a solution no longer than 1+ε times the shortest δ-clear path. Leveraging the concept of e-nets, we characterize in terms of lower and upper bounds the number of samples needed to guarantee (δ, ε)-completeness. This is in contrast with previous work which mostly considered the asymptotic regime in which the number of samples tends to infinity. In practice, we propose a sampling distribution inspired by e-nets that achieves nearly the same coverage as grids while using fewer samples.


Title: Safe Mission Planning under Dynamical Uncertainties
Abstract: This paper considers safe robot mission planning in uncertain dynamical environments. This problem arises in applications such as surveillance, emergency rescue, and autonomous driving. It is a challenging problem due to mod-eling and integrating dynamical uncertainties into a safe planning framework, and finding a solution in a computationally tractable way. In this work, we first develop a probabilistic model for dynamical uncertainties. Then, we provide a framework to generate a path that maximizes safety for complex missions by incorporating the uncertainty model. We also devise a Monte Carlo method to obtain a safe path efficiently. Finally, we evaluate the performance of our approach and compare it to potential alternatives in several case studies.


Title: An Iterative Quadratic Method for General-Sum Differential Games with Feedback Linearizable Dynamics
Abstract: Iterative linear-quadratic (ILQ) methods are widely used in the nonlinear optimal control community. Recent work has applied similar methodology in the setting of multi-player general-sum differential games. Here, ILQ methods are capable of finding local equilibria in interactive motion planning problems in real-time. As in most iterative procedures, however, this approach can be sensitive to initial conditions and hyperparameter choices, which can result in poor computational performance or even unsafe trajectories. In this paper, we focus our attention on a broad class of dynamical systems which are feedback linearizable, and exploit this structure to improve both algorithmic reliability and runtime. We showcase our new algorithm in three distinct traffic scenarios, and observe that in practice our method converges significantly more often and more quickly than was possible without exploiting the feedback linearizable structure.


Title: Binary DAD-Net: Binarized Driveable Area Detection Network for Autonomous Driving
Abstract: Driveable area detection is a key component for various applications in the field of autonomous driving (AD), such as ground-plane detection, obstacle detection and maneuver planning. Additionally, bulky and over-parameterized networks can be easily forgone and replaced with smaller networks for faster inference on embedded systems. The driveable area detection, posed as a two class segmentation task, can be efficiently modeled with slim binary networks. This paper proposes a novel binarized driveable area detection network (binary DAD-Net), which uses only binary weights and activations in the encoder, the bottleneck, and the decoder part. The latent space of the bottleneck is efficiently increased (×32→×16 downsampling) through binary dilated convolutions, learning more complex features. Along with automatically generated training data, the binary DAD-Net outperforms state-of-the-art semantic segmentation networks on public datasets. In comparison to a full-precision model, our approach has a ×14.3 reduced compute complexity on an FPGA and it requires only 0.9MB memory resources. Therefore, commodity SIMD-based AD-hardware is capable of accelerating the binary DAD-Net.


Title: Adaptive Unknown Object Rearrangement Using Low-Cost Tabletop Robot
Abstract: Studies on object rearrangement planning typically consider known objects. Some learning-based methods can predict the movement of an unknown object after single-step interaction, but require intermediate targets, which are generated manually, to achieve the rearrangement task. In this work, we propose a framework for unknown object rearrangement. Our system first models an object through a small-amount of identification actions and adjust the model parameters during task execution. We implement the proposed framework based on a low-cost tabletop robot (under 180 USD) to demonstrate the advantages of using a physics engine to assist action prediction. Experimental results reveal that after running our adaptive learning procedure, the robot can successfully arrange a novel object using an average of five discrete pushes on our tabletop environment and satisfy a precise 3.5 cm translation and 5° rotation criterion.


Title: Design and Kinematic Modeling of a Novel Steerable Needle for Image-Guided Insertion
Abstract: Needle-based procedures, such as biopsy and percutaneous tumor ablation, highly depend on the accuracy of needle placement. The accuracy is significantly affected by the needle-tissue interaction no matter what needles (straight or steerable) are used. Due to the unknown tissue mechanics, it is challenging to achieve high accuracy in practice. This paper hence proposes a needle design with an articulated tip for increased steerability and improved needle path consistency. Due to the passive needle tip articulation, tissue mechanics always plays a dominant role such that the needle creates similar paths with approximately piece-wise constant curvature in different tissues. Kinematics model for the proposed needle is presented. The algorithms of path planning and needle tip pose estimation under external imaging modality are developed. Experimental verifications were conducted to demonstrate the needle's steerability as well as the target-reaching capability with obstacles avoidance.


Title: GA3C Reinforcement Learning for Surgical Steerable Catheter Path Planning
Abstract: Path planning algorithms for steerable catheters, must guarantee anatomical obstacles avoidance, reduce the insertion length and ensure the compliance with needle kinematics. The majority of the solutions in literature focuses on graph based or sampling based methods, both limited by the impossibility to directly obtain smooth trajectories. In this work we formulate the path planning problem as a reinforcement learning problem and show that the trajectory planning model, generated from the training, can provide the user with optimal trajectories in terms of obstacle clearance and kinematic constraints. We obtain 2D and 3D environments from MRI images processing and we implement a GA3C algorithm to create a path planning model, able to generalize on different patients anatomies. The curvilinear trajectories obtained from the model in 2D and 3D environments are compared to the ones obtained by A* and RRT* algorithms. Our method achieves state-of-the-art performances in terms of obstacle avoidance, trajectory smoothness and computational time proving this algorithm as valid planning method for complex environments.


Title: Distributed Attack-Robust Submodular Maximization for Multi-Robot Planning
Abstract: We aim to guard swarm-robotics applications against denial-of-service (DoS) attacks that result in withdrawals of robots. We focus on applications requiring the selection of actions for each robot, among a set of available ones, e.g., which trajectory to follow. Such applications are central in large-scale robotic applications, e.g., multi-robot motion planning for target tracking. But the current attack-robust algorithms are centralized, and scale quadratically with the problem size (e.g., number of robots). In this paper, we propose a general-purpose distributed algorithm towards robust optimization at scale, with local communications only. We name it distributed robust maximization (DRM). DRM proposes a divide-and-conquer approach that distributively partitions the problem among K cliques of robots. The cliques optimize in parallel, independently of each other. That way, DRM also offers computational speed-ups up to 1/K2 the running time of its centralized counterparts. K depends on the robots' communication range, which is given as input to DRM. DRM also achieves a close-to-optimal performance. We demonstrate DRM's performance in Gazebo and MATLAB simulations, in scenarios of active target tracking with multiple robots. We observe DRM achieves significant computational speed-ups (it is 3 to 4 orders faster) and, yet, nearly matches the tracking performance of its centralized counterparts.


Title: Learning Control Policies from Optimal Trajectories
Abstract: The ability to optimally control robotic systems offers significant advantages for their performance. While time-dependent optimal trajectories can numerically be computed for high dimensional nonlinear system dynamic models, constraints and objectives, finding optimal feedback control policies for such systems is hard. This is unfortunate, as without a policy, the control of real-world systems requires frequent correction or replanning to compensate for disturbances and model errors.In this paper, a feedback control policy is learned from a set of optimal reference trajectories using Gaussian processes. Information from existing trajectories and the current policy is used to find promising start points for the computation of further optimal trajectories. This aspect is important as it avoids exhaustive sampling of the complete state space, which is impractical due to the high dimensional state space, and to focus on the relevant region.The presented method has been applied in simulation to a swing-up problem of an underactuated pendulum and an energy-minimal point-to-point movement of a 3-DOF industrial robot.


Title: Grasp for Stacking via Deep Reinforcement Learning
Abstract: Integrated robotic arm system should contain both grasp and place actions. However, most grasping methods focus more on how to grasp objects, while ignoring the placement of the grasped objects, which limits their applications in various industrial environments. In this research, we propose a model-free deep Q-learning method to learn the grasping-stacking strategy end-to-end from scratch. Our method maps the images to the actions of the robotic arm through two deep networks: the grasping network (GNet) using the observation of the desk and the pile to infer the gripper's position and orientation for grasping, and the stacking network (SNet) using the observation of the platform to infer the optimal location when placing the grasped object. To make a long-range planning, the two observations are integrated in the grasping for stacking network (GSN). We evaluate the proposed GSN on a grasping-stacking task in both simulated and real-world scenarios.


Title: egoTEB: Egocentric, Perception Space Navigation Using Timed-Elastic-Bands
Abstract: The TEB hierarchical planner for real-time navigation through unknown environments is highly effective at balancing collision avoidance with goal directed motion. Designed over several years and publications, it implements a multi-trajectory optimization based synthesis method for identifying topologically distinct trajectory candidates through navigable space. Unfortunately, the underlying factor graph approach to the optimization problem induces a mismatch between grid-based representations and the optimization graph, which leads to several time and optimization inefficiencies. This paper explores the impact of using egocentric, perception space representations for the local planning map. Doing so alleviates many of the identified issues related to TEB and leads to a new method called egoTEB. Timing experiments and Monte Carlo evaluations in benchmark worlds quantify the benefits of egoTEB for navigation through uncertain environments.


Title: Self-Supervised Sim-to-Real Adaptation for Visual Robotic Manipulation
Abstract: Collecting and automatically obtaining reward signals from real robotic visual data for the purposes of training reinforcement learning algorithms can be quite challenging and time-consuming. Methods for utilizing unlabeled data can have a huge potential to further accelerate robotic learning. We consider here the problem of performing manipulation tasks from pixels. In such tasks, choosing an appropriate state representation is crucial for planning and control. This is even more relevant with real images where noise, occlusions and resolution affect the accuracy and reliability of state estimation. In this work, we learn a latent state representation implicitly with deep reinforcement learning in simulation, and then adapt it to the real domain using unlabeled real robot data. We propose to do so by optimizing sequence-based self- supervised objectives. These use the temporal nature of robot experience, and can be common in both the simulated and real domains, without assuming any alignment of underlying states in simulated and unlabeled real images. We further propose a novel such objective, the Contrastive Forward Dynamics loss, which combines dynamics model learning with time-contrastive techniques. The learned state representation that results from our methods can be used to robustly solve a manipulation task in simulation and to successfully transfer the learned skill on a real system. We demonstrate the effectiveness of our approaches by training a vision-based reinforcement learning agent for cube stacking. Agents trained with our method, using only 5 hours of unlabeled real robot data for adaptation, shows a clear improvement over domain randomization, and standard visual domain adaptation techniques for sim-to-real transfer.


Title: DeepRacer: Autonomous Racing Platform for Experimentation with Sim2Real Reinforcement Learning
Abstract: DeepRacer is a platform for end-to-end experimentation with RL and can be used to systematically investigate the key challenges in developing intelligent control systems. Using the platform, we demonstrate how a 1/18th scale car can learn to drive autonomously using RL with a monocular camera. It is trained in simulation with no additional tuning in the physical world and demonstrates: 1) formulation and solution of a robust reinforcement learning algorithm, 2) narrowing the reality gap through joint perception and dynamics, 3) distributed on-demand compute architecture for training optimal policies, and 4) a robust evaluation method to identify when to stop training. It is the first successful large-scale deployment of deep reinforcement learning on a robotic control agent that uses only raw camera images as observations and a model-free learning method to perform robust path planning. We open source our code and video demo on GitHub2.


Title: Congestion-aware Evacuation Routing using Augmented Reality Devices
Abstract: We present a congestion-aware routing solution for indoor evacuation, which produces real-time individual-customized evacuation routes among multiple destinations while keeping tracks of all evacuees' locations. A population density map, obtained on-the-fly by aggregating locations of evacuees from user-end Augmented Reality (AR) devices, is used to model the congestion distribution inside a building. To efficiently search the evacuation route among all destinations, a variant of A* algorithm is devised to obtain the optimal solution in a single pass. In a series of simulated studies, we show that the proposed algorithm is more computationally optimized compared to classic path planning algorithms; it generates a more time-efficient evacuation route for each individual that minimizes the overall congestion. A complete system using AR devices is implemented for a pilot study in real-world environments, demonstrating the efficacy of the proposed approach.


Title: Human-robot interaction for robotic manipulator programming in Mixed Reality
Abstract: The paper presents an approach for interactive programming of the robotic manipulator using mixed reality. The developed system is based on the HoloLens glasses connected through Robotic Operation System to Unity engine and robotic manipulators. The system gives a possibility to recognize the real robot location by the point cloud analysis, to use virtual markers and menus for the task creation, to generate a trajectory for execution in the simulator or on the real manipulator. It also provides the possibility of scaling virtual and real worlds for more accurate planning. The proposed framework has been tested on pick-and-place and contact operations execution by UR10e and KUKA iiwa robots.


Title: Gaussian-Dirichlet Random Fields for Inference over High Dimensional Categorical Observations
Abstract: We propose a generative model for the spatio-temporal distribution of high dimensional categorical observations. These are commonly produced by robots equipped with an imaging sensor such as a camera, paired with an image classifier, potentially producing observations over thousands of categories. The proposed approach combines the use of Dirichlet distributions to model sparse co-occurrence relations between the observed categories using a latent variable, and Gaussian processes to model the latent variable's spatio-temporal distribution. Experiments in this paper show that the resulting model is able to efficiently and accurately approximate the temporal distribution of high dimensional categorical measurements such as taxonomic observations of microscopic organisms in the ocean, even in unobserved (held out) locations, far from other samples. This work's primary motivation is to enable deployment of informative path planning techniques over high dimensional categorical fields, which until now have been limited to scalar or low dimensional vector observations.


Title: A GNC Architecture for Planetary Rovers with Autonomous Navigation
Abstract: This paper proposes a Guidance, Navigation, and Control (GNC) architecture for planetary rovers targeting the conditions of upcoming Mars exploration missions such as Mars 2020 and the Sample Fetching Rover (SFR). The navigation requirements of these missions demand a control architecture featuring autonomous capabilities to achieve a fast and long traverse. The proposed solution presents a two-level architecture where the efficient navigation (lower) level is always active and the full navigation (upper) level is enabled according to the difficulty of the terrain. The first level is an efficient implementation of the basic functionalities for autonomous navigation based on hazard detection, local path replanning, and trajectory control with visual odometry. The second level implements an adaptive SLAM algorithm that improves the relative localization, evaluates the traversability of the terrain ahead for a more optimal path planning, and performs global (absolute) localization that corrects the pose drift during longer traverses. The architecture provides a solution for long-range, low supervision, and fast planetary exploration. Both navigation levels have been validated on planetary analog field test campaigns.


Title: Loam livox: A fast, robust, high-precision LiDAR odometry and mapping package for LiDARs of small FoV
Abstract: LiDAR odometry and mapping (LOAM) has been playing an important role in autonomous vehicles, due to its ability to simultaneously localize the robot's pose and build high-precision, high-resolution maps of the surrounding environment. This enables autonomous navigation and safe path planning of autonomous vehicles. In this paper, we present a robust, real-time LOAM algorithm for LiDARs with small FoV and irregular samplings. By taking effort on both frontend and back-end, we address several fundamental challenges arising from such LiDARs, and achieve better performance in both precision and efficiency compared to existing baselines. To share our findings and to make contributions to the community, we open source our codes on Github1.


Title: Active SLAM using 3D Submap Saliency for Underwater Volumetric Exploration
Abstract: In this paper, we present an active SLAM framework for volumetric exploration of 3D underwater environments with multibeam sonar. Recent work in integrated SLAM and planning performs localization while maintaining volumetric free-space information. However, an absence of informative loop closures can lead to imperfect maps, and therefore unsafe behavior. To solve this, we propose a navigation policy that reduces vehicle pose uncertainty by balancing between volumetric exploration and revisitation. To identify locations to revisit, we build a 3D visual dictionary from real-world sonar data and compute a metric of submap saliency. Revisit actions are chosen based on propagated pose uncertainty and sensor information gain. Loop closures are integrated as constraints in our pose-graph SLAM formulation and these deform the global occupancy grid map. We evaluate our performance in simulation and real-world experiments, and highlight the advantages over an uncertainty-agnostic framework.


Title: Adaptively Informed Trees (AIT*): Fast Asymptotically Optimal Path Planning through Adaptive Heuristics
Abstract: Informed sampling-based planning algorithms exploit problem knowledge for better search performance. This knowledge is often expressed as heuristic estimates of solution cost and used to order the search. The practical improvement of this informed search depends on the accuracy of the heuristic. Selecting an appropriate heuristic is difficult. Heuristics applicable to an entire problem domain are often simple to define and inexpensive to evaluate but may not be beneficial for a specific problem instance. Heuristics specific to a problem instance are often difficult to define or expensive to evaluate but can make the search itself trivial. This paper presents Adaptively Informed Trees (AIT*), an almost-surely asymptotically optimal sampling-based planner based on BIT*. AIT* adapts its search to each problem instance by using an asymmetric bidirectional search to simultaneously estimate and exploit a problem-specific heuristic. This allows it to quickly find initial solutions and converge towards the optimum. AIT* solves the tested problems as fast as RRT-Connect while also converging towards the optimum.


Title: Informing Multi-Modal Planning with Synergistic Discrete Leads
Abstract: Robotic manipulation problems are inherently continuous, but typically have underlying discrete structure, e.g., whether or not an object is grasped. This means many problems are multi-modal and in particular have a continuous infinity of modes. For example, in a pick-and-place manipulation domain, every grasp and placement of an object is a mode. Usually manipulation problems require the robot to transition into different modes, e.g., going from a mode with an object placed to another mode with the object grasped. To successfully find a manipulation plan, a planner must find a sequence of valid single-mode motions as well as valid transitions between these modes. Many manipulation planners have been proposed to solve tasks with multi-modal structure. However, these methods require mode-specific planners and fail to scale to very cluttered environments or to tasks that require long sequences of transitions. This paper presents a general layered planning approach to multi-modal planning that uses a discrete "lead" to bias search towards useful mode transitions. The difficulty of achieving specific mode transitions is captured online and used to bias search towards more promising sequences of modes. We demonstrate our planner on complex scenes and show that significant performance improvements are tied to both our discrete "lead" and our continuous representation.


Title: Hierarchical Coverage Path Planning in Complex 3D Environments
Abstract: State-of-the-art coverage planning methods perform well in simple environments but take an ineffectively long time to converge to an optimal solution in complex three-dimensional (3D) environments. As more structures are present in the same volume of workspace, these methods slow down as they spend more time searching for all of the nooks and crannies concealed in three-dimensional spaces. This work presents a method for coverage planning that employs a multi-resolution hierarchical framework to solve the problem at two different levels, producing much higher efficiency than the state-of-the-art. First, a high-level algorithm separates the environment into multiple subspaces at different resolutions and computes an order of the subspaces for traversal. Second, a low-level sampling-based algorithm solves for paths within the subspaces for detailed coverage. In experiments, we evaluate our method using real-world datasets from complex three-dimensional scenes. Our method finds paths that are constantly shorter and converges at least ten times faster than the state-of-the-art. Further, we show results of a physical experiment where a lightweight UAV follows the paths to realize the coverage.


Title: Perception-aware time optimal path parameterization for quadrotors
Abstract: The increasing popularity of quadrotors has given rise to a class of predominantly vision-driven vehicles. This paper addresses the problem of perception-aware time optimal path parametrization for quadrotors. Although many different choices of perceptual modalities are available, the low weight and power budgets of quadrotor systems makes a camera ideal for on-board navigation and estimation algorithms. However, this does come with a set of challenges. The limited field of view of the camera can restrict the visibility of salient regions in the environment, which dictates the necessity to consider perception and planning jointly. The main contribution of this paper is an efficient time optimal path parametrization algorithm for quadrotors with limited field of view constraints. We show in a simulation study that a state-of-the-art controller can track planned trajectories, and we validate the proposed algorithm on a quadrotor platform in experiments.


Title: Generating Visibility-Aware Trajectories for Cooperative and Proactive Motion Planning
Abstract: The safety of an autonomous vehicle not only depends on its own perception of the world around it, but also on the perception and recognition from other vehicles. If an ego vehicle considers the uncertainty other vehicles have about itself, then by reducing the estimated uncertainty it can increase its safety. In this paper, we focus on how an ego vehicle plans its trajectories through the blind spots of other vehicles. We create visibility-aware planning, where the ego vehicle chooses its trajectories such that it reduces the perceived uncertainty other vehicles may have about the state of the ego vehicle. We present simulations of traffic and highway environments, where an ego vehicle must pass another vehicle, make a lane change, or traverse a partially-occluded intersection. Emergent behavior shows that when using visibility-aware planning, the ego vehicle spends less time in a blind spot, and may slow down before entering the blind spot so as to increase the likelihood other vehicles perceive the ego vehicle.


Title: An obstacle-interaction planning method for navigation of actuated vine robots
Abstract: The field of soft robotics is grounded on the idea that, due to their inherent compliance, soft robots can safely interact with the environment. Thus, the development of effective planning and control pipelines for soft robots should incorporate reliable robot-environment interaction models. This strategy enables soft robots to effectively exploit contacts to autonomously navigate and accomplish tasks in the environment. However, for a class of soft robots, namely vine-inspired, tip-extending or "vine" robots, such interaction models and the resulting planning and control strategies do not exist. In this paper, we analyze the behavior of vine robots interacting with their environment and propose an obstacle-interaction model that characterizes the bending and wrinkling deformation induced by the environment. Starting from this, we devise a novel obstacle-interaction planning method for these robots. We show how obstacle interactions can be effectively leveraged to enlarge the set of reachable workspace for the robot tip, and verify our findings with both simulated and real experiments. Our work improves the capabilities of this new class of soft robot, helping to advance the field of soft robotics.


Title: Variational Inference with Mixture Model Approximation for Applications in Robotics
Abstract: We propose to formulate the problem of representing a distribution of robot configurations (e.g. joint angles) as that of approximating a product of experts. Our approach uses variational inference, a popular method in Bayesian computation, which has several practical advantages over sampling-based techniques. To be able to represent complex and multimodal distributions of configurations, mixture models are used as approximate distribution. We show that the problem of approximating a distribution of robot configurations while satisfying multiple objectives arises in a wide range of problems in robotics, for which the properties of the proposed approach have relevant consequences. Several applications are discussed, including learning objectives from demonstration, planning, and warm-starting inverse kinematics problems. Simulated experiments are presented with a 7-DoF Panda arm and a 28-DoF Talos humanoid.


Title: An NMPC Approach using Convex Inner Approximations for Online Motion Planning with Guaranteed Collision Avoidance
Abstract: Even though mobile robots have been around for decades, trajectory optimization and continuous time collision avoidance remain subject of active research. Existing methods trade off between path quality, computational complexity, and kinodynamic feasibility. This work approaches the problem using a nonlinear model predictive control (NMPC) framework, that is based on a novel convex inner approximation of the collision avoidance constraint. The proposed Convex Inner ApprOximation (CIAO) method finds kinodynamically feasible and continuous time collision free trajectories, in few iterations, typically one. For a feasible initialization, the approach is guaranteed to find a feasible solution, i.e. it preserves feasibility. Our experimental evaluation shows that CIAO outperforms state of the art baselines in terms of planning efficiency and path quality. Experiments show that it also efficiently scales to high-dimensional systems. Furthermore real-world experiments demonstrate its capability of unifying trajectory optimization and tracking for safe motion planning in dynamic environments.


Title: Online Trajectory Planning Through Combined Trajectory Optimization and Function Approximation: Application to the Exoskeleton Atalante
Abstract: Autonomous robots require online trajectory planning capability to operate in the real world. Efficient offline trajectory planning methods already exist, but are computationally demanding, preventing their use online. In this paper, we present a novel algorithm called Guided Trajectory Learning that learns a function approximation of solutions computed through trajectory optimization while ensuring accurate and reliable predictions. This function approximation is then used online to generate trajectories. This algorithm is designed to be easy to implement, and practical since it does not require massive computing power. It is readily applicable to any robotics systems and effortless to set up on real hardware since robust control strategies are usually already available. We demonstrate the computational performance of our algorithm on flat-foot walking with the self-balanced exoskeleton Atalante.


Title: Act, Perceive, and Plan in Belief Space for Robot Localization
Abstract: In this paper, we outline an interleaved acting and planning technique to rapidly reduce the uncertainty of the estimated robot's pose by perceiving relevant information from the environment, as recognizing an object or asking someone for a direction. Generally, existing localization approaches rely on low-level geometric features such as points, lines, and planes. While these approaches provide the desired accuracy, they may require time to converge, especially with incorrect initial guesses. In our approach, a task planner computes a sequence of action and perception tasks to actively obtain relevant information from the robot's perception system. We validate our approach in large state spaces, to show how the approach scales, and in real environments, to show the applicability of our method on real robots. We prove that our approach is sound, probabilistically complete, and tractable in practical cases.


Title: Fast and resilient manipulation planning for target retrieval in clutter
Abstract: This paper presents a task and motion planning (TAMP) framework for a robotic manipulator in order to retrieve a target object from clutter. We consider a configuration of objects in a confined space with a high density so no collision-free path to the target exists. The robot must relocate some objects to retrieve the target without collisions. For fast completion of object rearrangement, the robot aims to optimize the number of pick-and-place actions which often determines the efficiency of a TAMP framework.We propose a task planner incorporating motion planning to generate executable plans which aims to minimize the number of pick-and-place actions. In addition to fully known and static environments, our method can deal with uncertain and dynamic situations incurred by occluded views. Our method is shown to reduce the number of pick-and-place actions compared to baseline methods (e.g., at least 28.0% of reduction in a known static environment with 20 objects).


Title: Trajectory Optimization for a Six-DOF Cable-Suspended Parallel Robot with Dynamic Motions Beyond the Static Workspace
Abstract: This paper presents a trajectory optimization formulation for planning dynamic trajectories of a six-degree-of-freedom (six-DOF) cable-suspended parallel robot (CSPR) that extend beyond the static workspace. The optimization is guided by low-dimensional dynamic models to overcome the local minima and accelerate the exploration of the narrow feasible state space. The dynamic similarity between the six-DOF CSPR and the three-DOF point-mass CSPR is discussed with the analyses of their feasible force polyhedra. Finally, the transition trajectories of a three-DOF CSPR are used as the initial guess of the translational part of the six-DOF motion. With the proposed approach, highly dynamic motions for a six-DOF CSPR are efficiently generated with multiple oscillations. The feasibility is demonstrated by point-to-point and periodic trajectories in the physics simulation.


Title: An Efficient Planning and Control Framework for Pruning Fruit Trees
Abstract: Dormant pruning is a major cost component of fresh market tree fruit production, nearly equal in scale to harvesting the fruit. However, relatively little focus has been given to the problem of pruning trees autonomously. In this paper, we introduce a robotic system consisting of an industrial manipulator, an eye-in-hand RGB-D camera configuration, and a custom pneumatic cutter. The system is capable of planning and executing a sequence of cuts while making minimal assumptions about the environment. We leverage a novel planning framework designed for high-throughput operation which builds upon previous work to reduce motion planning time and sequence cut points intelligently. In end-to-end experiments with a set of ten different branch configurations, the system achieved a high success rate in plan execution and a 1.5x speedup in throughput versus a baseline planner, representing a significant step towards the goal of practical implementation of robotic pruning.


Title: Context Dependant Iterative Parameter Optimisation for Robust Robot Navigation
Abstract: Progress in autonomous mobile robotics has seen significant advances in the development of many algorithms for motion control and path planning. However, robust performance from these algorithms can often only be expected if the parameters controlling them are tuned specifically for the respective robot model, and optimised for specific scenarios in the environment the robot is working in. Such parameter tuning can, depending on the underlying algorithm, amount to a substantial combinatorial challenge, often rendering extensive manual tuning of these parameters intractable. In this paper, we present a framework that permits the use of different navigation actions and/or parameters depending on the spatial context of the navigation task. We consider the respective navigation algorithms themselves mostly as a "black box", and find suitable parameters by means of an iterative optimisation, improving for performance metrics in simulated environments. We present a genetic algorithm incorporated into the framework, and empirically show that the resulting parameter sets lead to substantial performance improvements in both simulated and real-world environments in the domain of agricultural robots.


Title: SUMMIT: A Simulator for Urban Driving in Massive Mixed Traffic
Abstract: Autonomous driving in an unregulated urban crowd is an outstanding challenge, especially, in the presence of many aggressive, high-speed traffic participants. This paper presents SUMMIT, a high-fidelity simulator that facilitates the development and testing of crowd-driving algorithms. By leveraging the open-source OpenStreetMap map database and a heterogeneous multi-agent motion prediction model developed in our earlier work, SUMMIT simulates dense, unregulated urban traffic for heterogeneous agents at any worldwide locations that OpenStreetMap supports. SUMMIT is built as an extension of CARLA and inherits from it the physics and visual realism for autonomous driving simulation. SUMMIT supports a wide range of applications, including perception, vehicle control and planning, and end-to-end learning. We provide a context-aware planner together with benchmark scenarios and show that SUMMIT generates complex, realistic traffic behaviors in challenging crowd-driving settings.


Title: Toward Optimal FDM Toolpath Planning with Monte Carlo Tree Search
Abstract: The most widely used methods for toolpath planning in 3D printing slice the input model into successive 2D layers to construct the toolpath. Unfortunately the methods can incur a substantial amount of wasted motion (i.e., the extruder is moving while not printing). In recent years we have introduced a new paradigm that characterizes the space of feasible toolpaths using a dependency graph on the input model, along with several algorithms that optimize objective functions (wasted motion or print time). A natural question that arises is, under what circumstances can we efficiently compute an optimal toolpath? In this paper, we give an algorithm for computing fused deposition modeling (FDM) toolpaths that utilizes Monte Carlo Tree Search (MCTS), a powerful generalpurpose method for navigating large search spaces that is guaranteed to converge to the optimal solution. Under reasonable assumptions on printer geometry that allow us to compress the dependency graph, our MCTS-based algorithm converges to find the optimal toolpath. We validate our algorithm on a dataset of 75 models and examine the performance on MCTS against our previous best local search-based algorithm in terms of toolpath quality. We show that a relatively short time budget for MCTS yields results on par with local search, while a larger time budget yields a 15% improvement in quality over local search. Additionally, we examine the properties of the models and MCTS executions that lead to better or worse results.


Title: Reactive Control and Metric-Topological Planning for Exploration
Abstract: Autonomous navigation in unknown environments with the intent of exploring all traversable areas is a significant challenge for robotic platforms. In this paper, a simple yet reliable method for exploring unknown environments is presented based on bio-inspired reactive control and metric-topological planning. The reactive control algorithm is modeled after the spatial decomposition of wide and small-field patterns of optic flow in the insect visuomotor system. Centering behaviour and small obstacle detection and avoidance are achieved through wide-field integration and Fourier residual analysis of instantaneous measured nearness respectively. A topological graph is estimated using image processing techniques on a continuous occupancy grid. Node paths are rapidly generated to navigate to the nearest unexplored edge in the graph. It is shown through rigorous field-testing that the proposed control and planning method is robust, reliable, and computationally efficient.


Title: Information Theoretic Active Exploration in Signed Distance Fields
Abstract: This paper focuses on exploration and occupancy mapping of unknown environments using a mobile robot. While a truncated signed distance field (TSDF) is a popular, efficient, and highly accurate representation of occupancy, few works have considered optimizing robot sensing trajectories for autonomous TSDF mapping. We propose an efficient approach for maintaining TSDF uncertainty and predicting its evolution from potential future sensor measurements without actually receiving them. Efficient uncertainty prediction is critical for long-horizon optimization of potential sensing trajectories. We develop a deterministic tree-search algorithm that evaluates the information gain between the TSDF distribution and potential observations along sequences of robot motion primitives. Efficient planning is achieved by branch-and-bound pruning of uninformative sensing trajectories. The effectiveness of our active TSDF mapping approach is evaluated in several simulated environments with complex visibility constraints.


Title: 3D Scene Geometry-Aware Constraint for Camera Localization with Deep Learning
Abstract: Camera localization is a fundamental and key component of autonomous driving vehicles and mobile robots to localize themselves globally for further environment perception, path planning and motion control. Recently end-to-end approaches based on convolutional neural network have been much studied to achieve or even exceed 3D-geometry based traditional methods. In this work, we propose a compact network for absolute camera pose regression. Inspired from those traditional methods, a 3D scene geometry-aware constraint is also introduced by exploiting all available information including motion, depth and image contents. We add this constraint as a regularization term to our proposed network by defining a pixel-level photometric loss and an image-level structural similarity loss. To benchmark our method, different challenging scenes including indoor and outdoor environment are tested with our proposed approach and state-of-the-arts. And the experimental results demonstrate significant performance improvement of our method on both prediction accuracy and convergence efficiency.


Title: Fog Robotics Algorithms for Distributed Motion Planning Using Lambda Serverless Computing
Abstract: For robots using motion planning algorithms such as RRT and RRT*, the computational load can vary by orders of magnitude as the complexity of the local environment changes. To adaptively provide such computation, we propose Fog Robotics algorithms in which cloud-based serverless lambda computing provides parallel computation on demand. To use this parallelism, we propose novel motion planning algorithms that scale effectively with an increasing number of serverless computers. However, given that the allocation of computing is typically bounded by both monetary and time constraints, we show how prior learning can be used to efficiently allocate resources at runtime. We demonstrate the algorithms and application of learned parallel allocation in both simulation and with the Fetch commercial mobile manipulator using Amazon Lambda to complete a sequence of sporadically computationally intensive motion planning tasks.


Title: R3T: Rapidly-exploring Random Reachable Set Tree for Optimal Kinodynamic Planning of Nonlinear Hybrid Systems
Abstract: We introduce R3T, a reachability-based variant of the rapidly-exploring random tree (RRT) algorithm that is suitable for (optimal) kinodynamic planning in nonlinear and hybrid systems. We developed tools to approximate reachable sets using polytopes and perform sampling-based planning with them. This method has a unique advantage in hybrid systems: different dynamic modes in the reachable set can be explicitly represented using multiple polytopes. We prove that under mild assumptions, R3T is probabilistically complete in kinodynamic systems, and asymptotically optimal through rewiring. Moreover, R3T provides a formal verification method for reachability analysis of nonlinear systems. The advantages of R3T are demonstrated with case studies on nonlinear, hybrid, and contact-rich robotic systems.


Title: DeepSemanticHPPC: Hypothesis-based Planning over Uncertain Semantic Point Clouds
Abstract: Planning in unstructured environments is challenging - it relies on sensing, perception, scene reconstruction, and reasoning about various uncertainties. We propose DeepSemanticHPPC, a novel uncertainty-aware hypothesis-based planner for unstructured environments. Our algorithmic pipeline consists of: a deep Bayesian neural network which segments surfaces with uncertainty estimates; a flexible point cloud scene representation; a next-best-view planner which minimizes the uncertainty of scene semantics using sparse visual measurements; and a hypothesis-based path planner that proposes multiple kinematically feasible paths with evolving safety confidences given next-best-view measurements. Our pipeline iteratively decreases semantic uncertainty along planned paths, filtering out unsafe paths with high confidence. We show that our framework plans safe paths in real-world environments where existing path planners typically fail.


Title: Balancing Actuation and Computing Energy in Motion Planning
Abstract: We study a novel class of motion planning problems, inspired by emerging low-energy robotic vehicles, such as insect-size flyers, chip-size satellites, and high-endurance autonomous blimps, for which the energy consumed by computing hardware during planning a path can be as large as the energy consumed by actuation hardware during the execution of the same path. We propose a new algorithm, called Compute Energy Included Motion Planning (CEIMP). CEIMP operates similarly to any other anytime planning algorithm, except it stops when it estimates further computing will require more computing energy than potential savings in actuation energy. We show that CEIMP has the same asymptotic computational complexity as existing sampling-based motion planning algorithms, such as PRM*. We also show that CEIMP outperforms the average baseline of using maximum computing resources in realistic computational experiments involving 10 floor plans from MIT buildings. In one representative experiment, CEIMP outperforms the average baseline 90.6% of the time when energy to compute one more second is equal to the energy to move one more meter, and 99.7% of the time when energy to compute one more second is equal to or greater than the energy to move 3 more meters.


Title: Posterior Sampling for Anytime Motion Planning on Graphs with Expensive-to-Evaluate Edges
Abstract: Collision checking is a computational bottleneck in motion planning, requiring lazy algorithms that explicitly reason about when to perform this computation. Optimism in the face of collision uncertainty minimizes the number of checks before finding the shortest path. However, this may take a prohibitively long time to compute, with no other feasible paths discovered during this period. For many real-time applications, we instead demand strong anytime performance, defined as minimizing the cumulative lengths of the feasible paths yielded over time. We introduce Posterior Sampling for Motion Planning (PSMP), an anytime lazy motion planning algorithm that leverages learned posteriors on edge collisions to quickly discover an initial feasible path and progressively yield shorter paths. PSMP obtains an expected regret bound of Õ(√(SAT)) and outperforms comparative baselines on a set of 2D and 7D planning problems.


Title: Coordinate-Free Dynamics and Differential Flatness of a Class of 6DOF Aerial Manipulators
Abstract: In this work, we derive a coordinate-free formulation of the coupled dynamics of a class of 6DOF aerial manipulators consisting of an underactuated quadrotor equipped with a 2DOF articulated manipulator, and demonstrate that the system is differentially flat with respect to the end effector pose. In particular, we require the center of mass of the entire system to be fixed in the end effector frame, suggesting a reasonable mechanical design criterion. We make use of an inertial decoupling transformation to demonstrate differential flatness, allowing us to plan dynamically feasible trajectories for the system in the space of the 6DOF pose of the end effector, which is ideal for achieving precise manipulator tasks. Simulation results validate the flatness-based planning methodology for our dynamic model, and its usefulness is demonstrated in a simulated aerial videography task.


Title: Interacting Vehicle Trajectory Prediction with Convolutional Recurrent Neural Networks
Abstract: Anticipating the future trajectories of surrounding vehicles is a crucial and challenging task in path planning for autonomy. We propose a novel Convolutional Long Short Term Memory (Conv-LSTM) based neural network architecture to predict the future positions of cars using several seconds of historical driving observations. This consists of three modules: 1) Interaction Learning to capture the effect of surrounding cars, 2) Temporal Learning to identify the dependency on past movements and 3) Motion Learning to convert the extracted features from these two modules into future positions. To continuously achieve accurate prediction, we introduce a novel feedback scheme where the current predicted positions of each car are leveraged to update future motion, encapsulating the effect of the surrounding cars. Experiments on two public datasets demonstrate that the proposed methodology can match or outperform the state-of-the-art methods for long-term trajectory prediction.


Title: Learning Navigation Costs from Demonstration in Partially Observable Environments
Abstract: This paper focuses on inverse reinforcement learning (IRL) to enable safe and efficient autonomous navigation in unknown partially observable environments. The objective is to infer a cost function that explains expert-demonstrated navigation behavior while relying only on the observations and state-control trajectory used by the expert. We develop a cost function representation composed of two parts: a probabilistic occupancy encoder, with recurrent dependence on the observation sequence, and a cost encoder, defined over the occupancy features. The representation parameters are optimized by differentiating the error between demonstrated controls and a control policy computed from the cost encoder. Such differentiation is typically computed by dynamic programming through the value function over the whole state space. We observe that this is inefficient in large partially observable environments because most states are unexplored. Instead, we rely on a closed-form subgradient of the cost-to-go obtained only over a subset of promising states via an efficient motion-planning algorithm such as A* or RRT. Our experiments show that our model exceeds the accuracy of baseline IRL algorithms in robot navigation tasks, while substantially improving the efficiency of training and test-time inference.


Title: From Bipedal Walking to Quadrupedal Locomotion: Full-Body Dynamics Decomposition for Rapid Gait Generation
Abstract: This paper systematically decomposes a quadrupedal robot into bipeds to rapidly generate walking gaits and then recomposes these gaits to obtain quadrupedal locomotion. We begin by decomposing the full-order, nonlinear and hybrid dynamics of a three-dimensional quadrupedal robot, including its continuous and discrete dynamics, into two bipedal systems that are subject to external forces. Using the hybrid zero dynamics (HZD) framework, gaits for these bipedal robots can be rapidly generated (on the order of seconds) along with corresponding controllers. The decomposition is achieved in such a way that the bipedal walking gaits and controllers can be composed to yield dynamic walking gaits for the original quadrupedal robot - the result is the rapid generation of dynamic quadruped gaits utilizing the full-order dynamics. This methodology is demonstrated through the rapid generation (3.96 seconds on average) of four stepping-in-place gaits and one diagonally symmetric ambling gait at 0.35 m/s on a quadrupedal robot - the Vision 60, with 36 state variables and 12 control inputs - both in simulation and through outdoor experiments. This suggested a new approach for fast quadrupedal trajectory planning using full-body dynamics, without the need for empirical model simplification, wherein methods from dynamic bipedal walking can be directly applied to quadrupeds.


Title: Learning to combine primitive skills: A step towards versatile robotic manipulation §
Abstract: Manipulation tasks such as preparing a meal or assembling furniture remain highly challenging for robotics and vision. Traditional task and motion planning (TAMP) methods can solve complex tasks but require full state observability and are not adapted to dynamic scene changes. Recent learning methods can operate directly on visual inputs but typically require many demonstrations and/or task-specific reward engineering. In this work we aim to overcome previous limitations and propose a reinforcement learning (RL) approach to task planning that learns to combine primitive skills. First, compared to previous learning methods, our approach requires neither intermediate rewards nor complete task demonstrations during training. Second, we demonstrate the versatility of our vision-based task planning in challenging settings with temporary occlusions and dynamic scene changes. Third, we propose an efficient training of basic skills from few synthetic demonstrations by exploring recent CNN architectures and data augmentation. Notably, while all of our policies are learned on visual inputs in simulated environments, we demonstrate the successful transfer and high success rates when applying such policies to manipulation tasks on a real UR5 robotic arm.


Title: Arm-hand motion-force coordination for physical interactions with non-flat surfaces using dynamical systems: Toward compliant robotic massage
Abstract: Many manipulation tasks require coordinated motions for arm and fingers. Complexity increases when the task requires to control for the force at contact against a non-flat surface; This becomes even more challenging when this contact is done on a human. All these challenges are regrouped when one, for instance, massages a human limb. When massaging, the robotic arm is required to continuously adapt its orientation and distance to the limb while the robot fingers exert desired patterns of forces and motion on the skin surface. To address these challenges, we adopt a Dynamical System (DS) approach that offers a unified motion-force control approach and enables to easily coordinate multiple degrees of freedom. As each human limb may slightly differ, we learn a model of the surface using support vector regression (SVR) which enable us to obtain a distance-to-surface mapping. The gradient of this mapping, along with the DS, generates the desired motions for the interaction with the surface. A DS-based impedance control for the robotic fingers allows to control separately for force along the normal direction of the surface while moving in the tangential plane. We validate our approach using the KUKA IIWA robotic arm and Allegro robotic hand for massaging a mannequin arm covered with a skin-like material. We show that our approach allows for 1) reactive motion planning to reach for an unknown surface, 2) following desired motion patterns on the surface, and 3) exerting desired interaction forces profiles. Our results show the effectiveness of our approach; especially the robustness toward uncertainties for shape and the given location of the surface.


Title: Motion Reasoning for Goal-Based Imitation Learning
Abstract: We address goal-based imitation learning, where the aim is to output the symbolic goal from a third-person video demonstration. This enables the robot to plan for execution and reproduce the same goal in a completely different environment. The key challenge is that the goal of a video demonstration is often ambiguous at the level of semantic actions. The human demonstrators might unintentionally achieve certain subgoals in the demonstrations with their actions. Our main contribution is to propose a motion reasoning framework that combines task and motion planning to disambiguate the true intention of the demonstrator in the video demonstration. This allows us to recognize the goals that cannot be disambiguated by previous action-based approaches. We evaluate our approach on a new dataset of 96 video demonstrations in a mockup kitchen environment. We show that our motion reasoning plays an important role in recognizing the actual goal of the demonstrator and improves the success rate by over 20%. We further show that by using the automatically inferred goal from the video demonstration, our robot is able to reproduce the same task in a real kitchen environment.


Title: Learning User Preferences from Corrections on State Lattices
Abstract: Enabling a broader range of users to efficiently deploy autonomous mobile robots requires intuitive frameworks for specifying a robot's task and behaviour. We present a novel approach using learning from corrections (LfC), where a user is iteratively presented with a solution to a motion planning problem. Users might have preferences about parts of a robot's environment that are suitable for robot traffic or that should be avoided as well as preferences on the control actions a robot can take. The robot is initially unaware of these preferences; thus, we ask the user to provide a correction to the presented path. We assume that the user evaluates paths based on environment and motion features. From a sequence of corrections we learn weights for these features, which are then considered by the motion planner, resulting in future paths that better fit the user's preferences. We prove completeness of our algorithm and demonstrate its performance in simulations. Thereby, we show that the learned preferences yield good results not only for a set of training tasks but also for test tasks, as well as for different types of user behaviour.


Title: Time Optimal Motion Planning with ZMP Stability Constraint for Timber Manipulation
Abstract: This paper presents a dynamic stability-constrained optimal motion planning algorithm developed for a timber harvesting machine working on rough terrain. First, the kinematics model of the machine, and the Zero Moment Point (ZMP) stability measure is presented. Then, an approach to simplify the model to gain insight and achieve a fast solution of the optimization problem is introduced. The performance and computation time of the motion plan obtained with the simplified model is compared against that obtained with the full kinematics model of the machine with the help of MATLAB simulations. The results demonstrate feasibility of fast motion planning while satisfying the dynamic stability constraint.


Title: Planning, Learning and Reasoning Framework for Robot Truck Unloading
Abstract: We consider the task of autonomously unloading boxes from trucks using an industrial manipulator robot. There are multiple challenges that arise: (1) real-time motion planning for a complex robotic system carrying two articulated mechanisms, an arm and a scooper, (2) decision-making in terms of what action to execute next given imperfect information about boxes such as their masses, (3) accounting for the sequential nature of the problem where current actions affect future state of the boxes, and (4) real-time execution that interleaves high-level decision-making with lower level motion planning. In this work, we propose a planning, learning, and reasoning framework to tackle these challenges, and describe its components including motion planning, belief space planning for offline learning, online decision-making based on offline learning, and an execution module to combine decision-making with motion planning. We analyze the performance of the framework on real-world scenarios. In particular, motion planning and execution modules are evaluated in simulation and on a real robot, while offline learning and online decision-making are evaluated in simulated real-world scenarios.


Title: GOMP: Grasp-Optimized Motion Planning for Bin Picking
Abstract: Rapid and reliable robot bin picking is a critical challenge in automating warehouses, often measured in picks-per-hour (PPH). We explore increasing PPH using faster motions based on optimizing over a set of candidate grasps. The source of this set of grasps is two-fold: (1) grasp-analysis tools such as Dex-Net generate multiple candidate grasps, and (2) each of these grasps has a degree of freedom about which a robot gripper can rotate. In this paper, we present Grasp-Optimized Motion Planning (GOMP), an algorithm that speeds up the execution of a bin-picking robot's operations by incorporating robot dynamics and a set of candidate grasps produced by a grasp planner into an optimizing motion planner. We compute motions by optimizing with sequential quadratic programming (SQP) and iteratively updating trust regions to account for the non-convex nature of the problem. In our formulation, we constrain the motion to remain within the mechanical limits of the robot while avoiding obstacles. We further convert the problem to a time-minimization by repeatedly shorting a time horizon of a trajectory until the SQP is infeasible. In experiments with a UR5, GOMP achieves a speedup of 9x over a baseline planner.


Title: Motion Planning and Task Allocation for a Jumping Rover Team
Abstract: This paper presents a cooperative robotic team composed of unmanned ground vehicles (UGVs) with hybrid operational modes to tackle the multiple traveling salesman problem (mTSP) with obstacles. The hybrid operational modes allow every UGV in the team to not only travel on a ground surface but also jump over obstacles. We name these UGVs jumping rovers. The jumping capability provides a flexible form of locomotion by leaping and landing on top of obstacles instead of navigating around obstacles. To solve the mTSP, an optimal path between any two objective points in an mTSP is determined by the optimized rapidly-exploring random tree method, named RRT*, and is further improved through a refined RRT* algorithm to find a smoother path between targets. We then formulate the mTSP as a mixed-integer linear programming (MILP) problem to search for the most cost-effective combination of paths for multiple UGVs. The effectiveness of the hybrid operational modes and optimized motion with assigned tasks is verified in an indoor, physical experimental environment using the customized jumping rovers.


Title: Active 3D Modeling via Online Multi-View Stereo
Abstract: Multi-view stereo (MVS) algorithms have been commonly used to model large-scale structures. When processing MVS, image acquisition is an important issue because its reconstruction quality depends heavily on the acquired images. Recently, an explore-then-exploit strategy has been used to acquire images for MVS. This method first constructs a coarse model by exploring an entire scene using a pre-allocated camera trajectory. Then, it rescans the unreconstructed regions from the coarse model. However, this strategy is inefficient because of the frequent overlap of the initial and rescanning trajectories. Furthermore, given the complete coverage of images, MVS algorithms do not guarantee an accurate reconstruction result.In this study, we propose a novel view path-planning method based on an online MVS system. This method aims to incrementally construct the target three-dimensional (3D) model in real time. View paths are continually planned based on online feedbacks from the partially constructed model. The obtained paths fully cover low-quality surfaces while maximizing the reconstruction performance of MVS. Experimental results demonstrate that the proposed method can construct high quality 3D models with one exploration trial, without any rescanning trial as in the explore-then-exploit method.


Title: TUNERCAR: A Superoptimization Toolchain for Autonomous Racing
Abstract: TUNERCAR is a toolchain that jointly optimizes racing strategy, planning methods, control algorithms, and vehicle parameters for an autonomous racecar. In this paper, we detail the target hardware, software, simulators, and systems infrastructure for this toolchain. Our methodology employs a parallel implementation of CMA-ES which enables simulations to proceed 6 times faster than real-world rollouts. We show our approach can reduce the lap times in autonomous racing, given a fixed computational budget. For all tested tracks, our method provides the lowest lap time, and relative improvements in lap time between 7-21%. We demonstrate improvements over a naive random search method with equivalent computational budget of over 15 seconds/lap, and improvements over expert solutions of over 2 seconds/lap. We further compare the performance of our method against hand-tuned solutions submitted by over 30 international teams, comprised of graduate students working in the field of autonomous vehicles. Finally, we discuss the effectiveness of utilizing an online planning mechanism to reduce the reality gap between our simulation and actual tests.


Title: Risk Assessment and Planning with Bidirectional Reachability for Autonomous Driving
Abstract: Risk assessment to quantify the danger associated with taking a certain action is critical to navigating safely through crowded urban environments during autonomous driving. Risk assessment and subsequent planning is usually done by first tracking and predicting trajectories of other agents, such as vehicles and pedestrians, and then choosing an action to avoid future collisions. However, few existing risk assessment algorithms handle occlusion and other sensory limitations effectively. One either assesses the risk in the worst-case scenario and thus makes the ego vehicle overly conservative, or predicts as many hidden agents as possible and thus makes the computation intensive. This paper explores the possibility of efficient risk assessment under occlusion via both forward and backward reachability. The proposed algorithm can not only identify the location of risk-inducing factors, but can also be used during motion planning. The proposed method is evaluated on various four-way highly occluded intersections with up to five other vehicles in the scene. Compared with other risk assessment algorithms, the proposed method shows better efficiency, meaning that the ego vehicle reaches the goal at a higher speed. In addition, it also lowers the median collision rate by 7.5× when compared to state of the art techniques.


Title: Driving in Dense Traffic with Model-Free Reinforcement Learning
Abstract: Traditional planning and control methods could fail to find a feasible trajectory for an autonomous vehicle to execute amongst dense traffic on roads. This is because the obstacle-free volume in spacetime is very small in these scenarios for the vehicle to drive through. However, that does not mean the task is infeasible since human drivers are known to be able to drive amongst dense traffic by leveraging the cooperativeness of other drivers to open a gap. The traditional methods fail to take into account the fact that the actions taken by an agent affect the behaviour of other vehicles on the road. In this work, we rely on the ability of deep reinforcement learning to implicitly model such interactions and learn a continuous control policy over the action space of an autonomous vehicle. The application we consider requires our agent to negotiate and open a gap in the road in order to successfully merge or change lanes. Our policy learns to repeatedly probe into the target road lane while trying to find a safe spot to move in to. We compare against two model-predictive control-based algorithms and show that our policy outperforms them in simulation. As part of this work, we introduce a benchmark for driving in dense traffic for use by the community.


Title: Analyzing the Suitability of Cost Functions for Explaining and Imitating Human Driving Behavior based on Inverse Reinforcement Learning
Abstract: Autonomous vehicles are sharing the road with human drivers. In order to facilitate interactive driving and cooperative behavior in dense traffic, a thorough understanding and representation of other traffic participants' behavior are necessary. Cost functions (or reward functions) have been widely used to describe the behavior of human drivers since they can not only explicitly incorporate the rationality of human drivers and the theory of mind (TOM), but also share similarity with the motion planning problem of autonomous vehicles. Hence, more human-like driving behavior and comprehensible trajectories can be generated to enable safer interaction and cooperation. However, the selection of cost functions in different driving scenarios is not trivial, and there is no systematic summary and analysis for cost function selection and learning from a variety of driving scenarios. In this work, we aim to investigate to what extent cost functions are suitable for explaining and imitating human driving behavior. Further, we focus on how cost functions differ from each other in different driving scenarios. Towards this goal, we first comprehensively review existing cost function structures in literature. Based on that, we point out required conditions for demonstrations to be suitable for inverse reinforcement learning (IRL). Finally, we use IRL to explore suitable features and learn cost function weights from human driven trajectories in three different scenarios.


Title: Toward Autonomous Robotic Micro-Suturing using Optical Coherence Tomography Calibration and Path Planning
Abstract: Robotic automation has the potential to assist human surgeons in performing suturing tasks in microsurgery, and in order to do so a robot must be able to guide a needle with sub-millimeter precision through soft tissue. This paper presents a robotic suturing system that uses 3D optical coherence tomography (OCT) system for imaging feedback. Calibration of the robot-OCT and robot-needle transforms, wound detection, keypoint identification, and path planning are all performed automatically. The calibration method handles pose uncertainty when the needle is grasped using a variant of iterative closest points. The path planner uses the identified wound shape to calculate needle entry and exit points to yield an evenly-matched wound shape after closure. Experiments on tissue phantoms and animal tissue demonstrate that the system can pass a suture needle through wounds with 0.200 mm overall accuracy in achieving the planned entry and exit points, and over 20× more precise than prior autonomous suturing robots.


Title: MAMS-A*: Multi-Agent Multi-Scale A*
Abstract: We present a multi-scale forward search algorithm for distributed agents to solve single-query shortest path planning problems. Each agent first builds a representation of its own search space of the common environment as a multi-resolution graph, it communicates with the other agents the result of its local search, and it uses received information from other agents to refine its own graph and update the local inconsistency conditions. As a result, all agents attain a common subgraph that includes a provably optimal path in the most informative graph available among all agents, if one exists, without necessarily communicating the entire graph. We prove the completeness and optimality of the proposed algorithm, and present numerical results supporting the advantages of the proposed approach.


Title: Incorporating Motion Planning Feasibility Considerations during Task-Agent Assignment to Perform Complex Tasks Using Mobile Manipulators
Abstract: Multi-arm mobile manipulators can be represented as a combination of multiple robotic agents from the perspective of task-assignment and motion planning. Depending upon the task, agents might collaborate or work independently. Integrating motion planning with task-agent assignment is a computationally slow process as infeasible assignments can only be detected through expensive motion planning queries. We present three speed-up techniques for addressing this problem-(1) spatial constraint checking using conservative surrogates for motion planners, (2) instantiating symbolic conditions for pruning infeasible assignments, and (3) efficiently caching and reusing previously generated motion plans. We show that the developed method is useful for real-world operations that require complex interaction and coordination among high-DOF robotic agents.


Title: Online Replanning in Belief Space for Partially Observable Task and Motion Problems
Abstract: To solve multi-step manipulation tasks in the real world, an autonomous robot must take actions to observe its environment and react to unexpected observations. This may require opening a drawer to observe its contents or moving an object out of the way to examine the space behind it. Upon receiving a new observation, the robot must update its belief about the world and compute a new plan of action. In this work, we present an online planning and execution system for robots faced with these challenges. We perform deterministic cost-sensitive planning in the space of hybrid belief states to select likely-to-succeed observation actions and continuous control actions. After execution and observation, we replan using our new state estimate. We initially enforce that planner reuses the structure of the unexecuted tail of the last plan. This both improves planning efficiency and ensures that the overall policy does not undo its progress towards achieving the goal. Our approach is able to efficiently solve partially observable problems both in simulation and in a real-world kitchen.


Title: Fast Local Planning and Mapping in Unknown Off-Road Terrain
Abstract: In this paper, we present a fast, on-line mapping and planning solution for operation in unknown, off-road, environments. We combine obstacle detection along with a terrain gradient map to make simple and adaptable cost map. This map can be created and updated at 10 Hz. An A* planner finds optimal paths over the map. Finally, we take multiple samples over the control input space and do a kinematic forward simulation to generated feasible trajectories. Then the most optimal trajectory, as determined by the cost map and proximity to A* path, is chosen and sent to the controller. Our method allows real time operation at rates of 30 Hz. We demonstrate the efficiency of our method in various off-road terrain at high speed.


Title: Planetary Rover Exploration Combining Remote and In Situ Measurements for Active Spectroscopic Mapping
Abstract: Maintaining high levels of productivity for planetary rover missions is very difficult due to limited communication and heavy reliance on ground control. There is a need for autonomy that enables more adaptive and efficient actions based on real-time information. This paper presents an autonomous mapping and exploration approach for planetary rovers. We first describe a machine learning model that actively combines remote and rover measurements for mapping. We focus on spectroscopic data because they are commonly used to investigate surface composition. We then incorporate notions from information theory and non-myopic path planning to improve exploration productivity. Finally, we demonstrate the feasibility and successful performance of our approach via spectroscopic investigations of Cuprite, Nevada; a well-studied region of mineralogical and geological interest. We first perform a detailed analysis in simulations, and then validate those results with an actual rover in the field in Nevada.


Title: Online Trajectory Planning for an Industrial Tractor Towing Multiple Full Trailers
Abstract: This paper presents a novel solution for online trajectory planning of a full-size tractor-trailers vehicle composed of a car-like tractor and arbitrary number of passive full trailers. The motion planning problem for such systems was rarely addressed due to the complex nonlinear dynamics. A simulation-based prediction method is proposed to easily handle the complicated nonlinear dynamics and efficiently generate the obstacle-free and dynamically feasible trajectories. The vehicle dynamics model and a two-layer controller are used in the prediction. Implementation results on the real-world full-size industrial tractor-trailers vehicle are presented to validate the performance of the proposed methods.


Title: Large-Scale Volumetric Scene Reconstruction using LiDAR
Abstract: Large-scale 3D scene reconstruction is an important task in autonomous driving and other robotics applications as having an accurate representation of the environment is necessary to safely interact with it. Reconstructions are used for numerous tasks ranging from localization and mapping to planning. In robotics, volumetric depth fusion is the method of choice for indoor applications since the emergence of commodity RGB-D cameras due to its robustness and high reconstruction quality. In this work we present an approach for volumetric depth fusion using LiDAR sensors as they are common on most autonomous cars. We present a framework for large-scale mapping of urban areas considering loop closures. Our method creates a meshed representation of an urban area from recordings over a distance of 3.7km with a high level of detail on consumer graphics hardware in several minutes. The whole process is fully automated and does not need any user interference. We quantitatively evaluate our results from a real world application. Also, we investigate the effects of the sensor model that we assume on reconstruction quality by using synthetic data.


Title: Refined Analysis of Asymptotically-Optimal Kinodynamic Planning in the State-Cost Space
Abstract: We present a novel analysis of AO-RRT: a tree-based planner for motion planning with kinodynamic constraints, originally described by Hauser and Zhou (AO-X, 2016). AO-RRT explores the state-cost space and has been shown to efficiently obtain high-quality solutions in practice without relying on the availability of a computationally-intensive two-point boundary-value solver. Our main contribution is an optimality proof for the single-tree version of the algorithm-a variant that was not analyzed before. Our proof only requires a mild and easily-verifiable set of assumptions on the problem and system: Lipschitz-continuity of the cost function and the dynamics. In particular, we prove that for any system satisfying these assumptions, any trajectory having a piecewise-constant control function and positive clearance from the obstacles can be approximated arbitrarily well by a trajectory found by AORRT. We also discuss practical aspects of AORRT and present experimental comparisons of variants of the algorithm.


Title: Driving Style Encoder: Situational Reward Adaptation for General-Purpose Planning in Automated Driving
Abstract: General-purpose planning algorithms for automated driving combine mission, behavior, and local motion planning. Such planning algorithms map features of the environment and driving kinematics into complex reward functions. To achieve this, planning experts often rely on linear reward functions. The specification and tuning of these reward functions is a tedious process and requires significant experience. Moreover, a manually designed linear reward function does not generalize across different driving situations. In this work, we propose a deep learning approach based on inverse reinforcement learning that generates situation-dependent reward functions. Our neural network provides a mapping between features and actions of sampled driving policies of a model-predictive control-based planner and predicts reward functions for upcoming planning cycles. In our evaluation, we compare the driving style of reward functions predicted by our deep network against clustered and linear reward functions. Our proposed deep learning approach outperforms clustered linear reward functions and is at par with linear reward functions with a-priori knowledge about the situation.


Title: Analysis and Prediction of Pedestrian Crosswalk Behavior during Automated Vehicle Interactions
Abstract: For safe navigation around pedestrians, automated vehicles (AVs) need to plan their motion by accurately predicting pedestrians' trajectories over long time horizons. Current approaches to AV motion planning around crosswalks predict only for short time horizons (1-2 s) and are based on data from pedestrian interactions with human-driven vehicles (HDVs). In this paper, we develop a hybrid systems model that uses pedestrians' gap acceptance behavior and constant velocity dynamics for long-term pedestrian trajectory prediction when interacting with AVs. Results demonstrate the applicability of the model for long-term (> 5 s) pedestrian trajectory prediction at crosswalks. Further, we compared measures of pedestrian crossing behaviors in the immersive virtual environment (when interacting with AVs) to that in the real world (results of published studies of pedestrians interacting with HDVs), and found similarities between the two. These similarities demonstrate the applicability of the hybrid model of AV interactions developed from an immersive virtual environment (IVE) for real-world scenarios for both AVs and HDVs.


Title: Towards 5-DoF Control of an Untethered Magnetic Millirobot via MRI Gradient Coils
Abstract: Electromagnetic field gradients generated by magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) devices pave the way to power untethered magnetic robots remotely. This innovative use of MRI devices allows exerting magnetic pulling forces on untethered magnetic robots, which could be used for navigation, diagnosis, drug delivery and therapeutic procedures inside a human body. So far, MRI-powered untethered magnetic robots lack simultaneous position and orientation control inside three-dimensional (3D) fluids, and therefore, their control has been limited to 3-DoF position control. In this paper, we present a path-planning-based 5-DoF control algorithm to steer and control an MRI-powered untethered robot's position and orientation simultaneously in 3D workspaces in fluids. Eventhough the simulation results show that the proposed optimal controller can successfully control the robot for 5-DoF, in the experiments, we observe a reduced 5-DoF controllability due to the robot manufacturing errors, which result in pitch angle to remain at around the neutral pitching angle at the steady state. The proposed controller was evaluated to track four different paths (linear, planar-horizontal, planar-vertical and 3D paths) generated by 3D Bezier curves. The worst-case path-tracking error was observed for 3D path-following experiments. For this case, the position-tracking error was 2.7±1.8 mm, and the orientation-tracking error was 13.5± 28.7 and 3.7± 10.2 degrees for yaw and pitch angles, respectively. The overall path is completed within 19.6 seconds with 23.6 mm overall displacement and 61.2 and 41.2 degrees of yaw and pitch angle rotation, respectively. Such robots can be used in future MRI-powered active imaging, laser surgery and biopsy robots inside a fluid-filled stomach type of organs.


Title: SL1M: Sparse L1-norm Minimization for contact planning on uneven terrain
Abstract: One of the main challenges of planning legged locomotion in complex environments is the combinatorial contact selection problem. Recent contributions propose to use integer variables to represent which contact surface is selected, and then to rely on modern mixed-integer (MI) optimization solvers to handle this combinatorial issue. To reduce the computational cost of MI, we exploit the sparsity properties of L1 norm minimization techniques to relax the contact planning problem into a feasibility linear program. Our approach accounts for kinematic reachability of the center of mass (COM) and of the contact effectors. We ensure the existence of a quasi-static COM trajectory by restricting our plan to quasi-flat contacts. For planning 10 steps with less than 10 potential contact surfaces for each phase, our approach is 50 to 100 times faster that its MI counterpart, which suggests potential applications for online contact re-planning. The method is demonstrated in simulation with the humanoid robots HRP-2 and Talos over various scenarios.


Title: CyPhyHouse: A programming, simulation, and deployment toolchain for heterogeneous distributed coordination
Abstract: Programming languages, libraries, and development tools have transformed the application development processes for mobile computing and machine learning. This paper introduces CyPhyHouse-a toolchain that aims to provide similar programming, debugging, and deployment benefits for distributed mobile robotic applications. Users can develop hardware-agnostic, distributed applications using the high-level, event driven Koord programming language, without requiring expertise in controller design or distributed network protocols. The modular, platform-independent middleware of CyPhyHouse implements these functionalities using standard algorithms for path planning (RRT), control (MPC), mutual exclusion, etc. A high-fidelity, scalable, multi-threaded simulator for Koord applications is developed to simulate the same application code for dozens of heterogeneous agents. The same compiled code can also be deployed on heterogeneous mobile platforms. The effectiveness of CyPhyHouse in improving the design cycles is explicitly illustrated in a robotic testbed through development, simulation, and deployment of a distributed task allocation application on in-house ground and aerial vehicles.


Title: Chance Constrained Simultaneous Path Planning and Task Assignment for Multiple Robots with Stochastic Path Costs
Abstract: We present a novel algorithm for simultaneous task assignment and path planning on a graph (or roadmap) with stochastic edge costs. In this problem, the initially unassigned robots and tasks are located at known positions in a roadmap. We want to assign a unique task to each robot and compute a path for the robot to go to its assigned task location. Given the mean and variance of travel cost of each edge, our goal is to develop algorithms that, with high probability, the total path cost of the robot team is below a minimum value in any realization of the stochastic travel costs. We formulate the problem as a chance-constrained simultaneous task assignment and path planning problem (CC-STAP). We prove that the optimal solution of CC-STAP can be obtained by solving a sequence of deterministic simultaneous task assignment and path planning problems in which the travel cost is a linear combination of mean and variance of the edge cost. We show that the deterministic problem can be solved in two steps. In the first step, robots compute the shortest paths to the task locations and in the second step, the robots solve a linear assignment problem with the costs obtained in the first step. We also propose a distributed algorithm that solves CC-STAP near-optimally. We present simulation results on randomly generated networks and data to demonstrate that our algorithm is scalable with the number of robots (or tasks) and the size of the network.


Title: Non-Prehensile Manipulation in Clutter with Human-In-The-Loop
Abstract: We propose a human-operator guided planning approach to pushing-based manipulation in clutter. Most recent approaches to manipulation in clutter employs randomized planning. The problem, however, remains a challenging one where the planning times are still in the order of tens of seconds or minutes, and the success rates are low for difficult instances of the problem. We build on these control-based randomized planning approaches, but we investigate using them in conjunction with human-operator input. In our framework, the human operator supplies a high-level plan, in the form of an ordered sequence of objects and their approximate goal positions. We present experiments in simulation and on a real robotic setup, where we compare the success rate and planning times of our human-in-the-loop approach with fully autonomous sampling-based planners. We show that with a minimal amount of human input, the low-level planner can solve the problem faster and with higher success rates.


Title: Accurate Vision-based Manipulation through Contact Reasoning
Abstract: Planning contact interactions is one of the core challenges of many robotic tasks. Optimizing contact locations while taking dynamics into account is computationally costly and, in environments that are only partially observable, executing contact-based tasks often suffers from low accuracy. We present an approach that addresses these two challenges for the problem of vision-based manipulation. First, we propose to disentangle contact from motion optimization. Thereby, we improve planning efficiency by focusing computation on promising contact locations. Second, we use a hybrid approach for perception and state estimation that combines neural networks with a physically meaningful state representation. In simulation and real-world experiments on the task of planar pushing, we show that our method is more efficient and achieves a higher manipulation accuracy than previous vision-based approaches.


Title: A Probabilistic Framework for Constrained Manipulations and Task and Motion Planning under Uncertainty
Abstract: Logic-Geometric Programming (LGP) is a powerful motion and manipulation planning framework, which represents hierarchical structure using logic rules that describe discrete aspects of problems, e.g., touch, grasp, hit, or push, and solves the resulting smooth trajectory optimization. The expressive power of logic allows LGP for handling complex, large-scale sequential manipulation and tool-use planning problems. In this paper, we extend the LGP formulation to stochastic domains. Based on the control-inference duality, we interpret LGP in a stochastic domain as fitting a mixture of Gaussians to the posterior path distribution, where each logic pro le defines a single Gaussian path distribution. The proposed framework enables a robot to prioritize various interaction modes and to acquire interesting behaviors such as contact exploitation for uncertainty reduction, eventually providing a composite control scheme that is reactive to disturbance.


Title: Planning with Selective Physics-based Simulation for Manipulation Among Movable Objects
Abstract: Use of physics-based simulation as a planning model enables a planner to reason and generate plans that involve non-trivial interactions with the world. For example, grasping a milk container out of a cluttered refrigerator may involve moving a robot manipulator in between other objects, pushing away the ones that are moveable and avoiding interactions with certain fragile containers. A physics-based simulator allows a planner to reason about the effects of interactions with these objects and to generate a plan that grasps the milk container successfully. The use of physics-based simulation for planning however is underutilized. One of the reasons for it being that physics-based simulations are typically way too slow for being used within a planning loop that typically requires tens of thousands of actions to be evaluated within a matter of a second or two. In this work, we develop a planning algorithm that tries to address this challenge. In particular, it builds on the observation that only a small number of actions actually need to be simulated using physics, and the remaining set of actions, such as moving an arm around obstacles, can be evaluated using a much simpler internal planning model, e.g., a simple collision-checking model. Motivated by this, we develop an algorithm called Planning with Selective Physics-based Simulation that automatically discovers what should be simulated with physics and what can utilize an internal planning model for pick-and-place tasks.


Title: Hybrid Differential Dynamic Programming for Planar Manipulation Primitives
Abstract: We present a hybrid differential dynamic programming (DDP) algorithm for closed-loop execution of manipulation primitives with frictional contact switches. Planning and control of these primitives is challenging as they are hybrid, under-actuated, and stochastic. We address this by developing hybrid DDP both to plan finite horizon trajectories with a few contact switches and to create linear stabilizing controllers. We evaluate the performance and computational cost of our framework in ablations studies for two primitives: planar pushing and planar pivoting. We find that generating pose-to-pose closed-loop trajectories from most configurations requires only a couple (one to two) hybrid switches and can be done in reasonable time (one to five seconds). We further demonstrate that our controller stabilizes these hybrid trajectories on a real pushing system. A video describing our work can be found at https://youtu.be/YGSe4cUfq6Q.


Title: A Soft Gripper with Retractable Nails for Advanced Grasping and Manipulation
Abstract: This study describes the enhancement of a vacuum actuated soft gripper's grasping capabilities using retractable finger nails and an active re-configurable palm. The finger nail mechanism is pneumatically actuated and enables the gripper to perform complex grasping and manipulation tasks with high repeatability. The retracted nails can exert normal grasping forces of up to 1.8N and enable grasping of objects up to 200μm thick from flat surfaces, while allowing the gripper to execute delicate pinch grasps without complex trajectory or grasp planning. A wide array of robotic grasping tasks that were not possible without nails are also described.


Title: Towards Proactive Navigation: A Pedestrian-Vehicle Cooperation Based Behavioral Model
Abstract: Developing autonomous vehicles capable of navigating safely and socially around pedestrians is a major challenge in intelligent transportation. This challenge cannot be met without understanding pedestrians' behavioral response to an autonomous vehicle, and the task of building a clear and quantitative description of the pedestrian to vehicle interaction remains a key milestone in autonomous navigation research. As a step towards safe proactive navigation in a space shared with pedestrians, this work introduces a pedestrian-vehicle interaction behavioral model. The model estimates the pedestrian's cooperation with the vehicle in an interaction scenario by a quantitative time-varying function. Using this cooperation estimation the pedestrian's trajectory is predicted by a cooperation-based trajectory planning model. Both parts of the model are tested and validated using real-life recorded scenarios of pedestrian-vehicle interaction. The model is capable of describing and predicting agents' behaviors when interacting with a vehicle in both lateral and frontal crossing scenarios.


Title: Mapless Navigation among Dynamics with Social-safety-awareness: a reinforcement learning approach from 2D laser scans
Abstract: We consider the problem of mapless collision-avoidance navigation where humans are present using 2D laser scans. Our proposed method uses ego-safety to measure collision from the robot's perspective and social-safety to measure the impact of robot's actions on surrounding pedestrians. Specifically, the social-safety part predicts the intrusion impact of the robot's action into the interaction area with surrounding humans. We train the policy using reinforcement learning on a simple simulator and directly evaluate the learned policy in Gazebo and real robot tests. Experiments show the learned policy smoothly transferred to different scenarios without any fine tuning. We observe that our method demonstrates time-efficient path planning behavior with high success rate in the mapless navigation task. Furthermore, we test our method in a navigation task among dynamic crowds, considering both low and high volume traffic. Our learned policy demonstrates cooperative behavior that actively drives our robot into traffic flows while showing respect to nearby pedestrians. Evaluation videos are at https://sites.google.com/view/ssw-batman.


Title: Trajectory Planning with Safety Guaranty for a Multirotor based on the Forward and Backward Reachability Analysis
Abstract: Planning a trajectory with guaranteed safety is a core part for a risk-free flight of a multirotor. If a trajectory planner only aims to ensure safety, it may generate trajectories which overly bypass risky regions and prevent the system from achieving specific missions. This work presents a robust trajectory planning algorithm which simultaneously guarantees the safety and reachability to the target state in the presence of unknown disturbances. We first characterize how the forward and backward reachable sets (FRSs and BRSs) are constructed by using Hamilton-Jacobi reachability analysis. Based on the analysis, we present analytic expressions for the reachable sets and then propose minimal ellipsoids which closely approximate the reachable sets. In the planning process, we optimize the reference trajectory to connect the FRSs and BRSs, while avoiding obstacles. By combining the FRSs and BRSs, we can guarantee that any state inside of the initial set reaches the target set. We validate the proposed algorithm through a simulation of traversing a narrow gap.


Title: A Hamilton-Jacobi Reachability-Based Framework for Predicting and Analyzing Human Motion for Safe Planning
Abstract: Real-world autonomous systems often employ probabilistic predictive models of human behavior during planning to reason about their future motion. Since accurately modeling human behavior a priori is challenging, such models are often parameterized, enabling the robot to adapt predictions based on observations by maintaining a distribution over the model parameters. Although this enables data and priors to improve the human model, observation models are difficult to specify and priors may be incorrect, leading to erroneous state predictions that can degrade the safety of the robot motion plan. In this work, we seek to design a predictor which is more robust to misspecified models and priors, but can still leverage human behavioral data online to reduce conservatism in a safe way. To do this, we cast human motion prediction as a Hamilton-Jacobi reachability problem in the joint state space of the human and the belief over the model parameters. We construct a new continuous-time dynamical system, where the inputs are the observations of human behavior, and the dynamics include how the belief over the model parameters change. The results of this reachability computation enable us to both analyze the effect of incorrect priors on future predictions in continuous state and time, as well as to make predictions of the human state in the future. We compare our approach to the worst-case forward reachable set and a stochastic predictor which uses Bayesian inference and produces full future state distributions. Our comparisons in simulation and in hardware demonstrate how our framework can enable robust planning while not being overly conservative, even when the human model is inaccurate. Videos of our experiments can be found at the project website1.


Title: The Tiercel: A novel autonomous micro aerial vehicle that can map the environment by flying into obstacles
Abstract: Autonomous flight through unknown environments in the presence of obstacles is a challenging problem for micro aerial vehicles (MAVs). A majority of the current state-of-art research assumes obstacles as opaque objects that can be easily sensed by optical sensors such as cameras or LiDARs. However in indoor environments with glass walls and windows, or scenarios with smoke and dust, robots (even birds) have a difficult time navigating through the unknown space.In this paper, we present the design of a new class of micro aerial vehicles that achieves autonomous navigation and are robust to collisions. In particular, we present the Tiercel MAV: a small, agile, light weight and collision-resilient robot powered by a cellphone grade CPU. Our design exploits contact to infer the presence of transparent or reflective obstacles like glass walls, integrating touch with visual perception for SLAM. The Tiercel is able to localize using visual-inertial odometry (VIO) running on board the robot with a single downward facing fisheye camera and an IMU. We show how our collision detector design and experimental set up enable us to characterize the impact of collisions on VIO. We further develop a planning strategy to enable the Tiercel to fly autonomously in an unknown space, sustaining collisions and creating a 2D map of the environment. Finally we demonstrate a swarm of three autonomous Tiercel robots safely navigating and colliding through an obstacle field to reach their objectives.


Title: Motion Planning with Competency-Aware Transition Models for Underactuated Adaptive Hands
Abstract: Underactuated adaptive hands simplify grasping tasks but it is difficult to model their interactions with objects during in-hand manipulation. Learned data-driven models have been recently shown to be efficient in motion planning and control of such hands. Still, the accuracy of the models is limited even with the addition of more data. This becomes important for long horizon predictions, where errors are accumulated along the length of a path. Instead of throwing more data into learning the transition model, this work proposes to rather invest a portion of the training data in a critic model. The critic is trained to estimate the error of the transition model given a state and a sequence of future actions, along with information of past actions. The critic is used to reformulate the cost function of an asymptotically optimal motion planner. Given the critic, the planner directs planned paths to less erroneous regions in the state space. The approach is evaluated against standard motion planning on simulated and real hands. The results show that it outperforms an alternative where all the available data is used for training the transition model without a critic.


Title: Human-like Planning for Reaching in Cluttered Environments
Abstract: Humans, in comparison to robots, are remarkably adept at reaching for objects in cluttered environments. The best existing robot planners are based on random sampling of configuration space- which becomes excessively high-dimensional with large number of objects. Consequently, most planners often fail to efficiently find object manipulation plans in such environments. We addressed this problem by identifying high-level manipulation plans in humans, and transferring these skills to robot planners. We used virtual reality to capture human participants reaching for a target object on a tabletop cluttered with obstacles. From this, we devised a qualitative representation of the task space to abstract the decision making, irrespective of the number of obstacles. Based on this representation, human demonstrations were segmented and used to train decision classifiers. Using these classifiers, our planner produced a list of waypoints in task space. These waypoints provided a high-level plan, which could be transferred to an arbitrary robot model and used to initialise a local trajectory optimiser. We evaluated this approach through testing on unseen human VR data, a physics-based robot simulation, and a real robot (dataset and code are publicly available1). We found that the human-like planner outperformed a state-of-the-art standard trajectory optimisation algorithm, and was able to generate effective strategies for rapid planning- irrespective of the number of obstacles in the environment.


Title: Where to relocate?: Object rearrangement inside cluttered and confined environments for robotic manipulation
Abstract: We present an algorithm determining where to relocate objects inside a cluttered and confined space while rearranging objects to retrieve a target object. Although methods that decide what to remove have been proposed, planning for the placement of removed objects inside a workspace has not received much attention. Rather, removed objects are often placed outside the workspace, which incurs additional laborious work (e.g., motion planning and execution of the manipulator and the mobile base, perception of other areas). Some other methods manipulate objects only inside the workspace but without a principle so the rearrangement becomes inefficient. In this work, we consider both monotone (each object is moved only once) and non-monotone arrangement problems which have shown to be NP-hard. Once the sequence of objects to be relocated is given by any existing algorithm, our method aims to minimize the number of pick-and-place actions to place the objects until the target becomes accessible. From extensive experiments, we show that our method reduces the number of pick-and-place actions and the total execution time (the reduction is up to 23.1% and 28.1% respectively) compared to baseline methods while achieving higher success rates.


Title: Autonomous Modification of Unstructured Environments with Found Material
Abstract: The ability to autonomously modify their environment dramatically increases the capability of robots to operate in unstructured environments. We develop a specialized construction algorithm and robotic system that can autonomously build motion support structures with previously unseen objects. The approach is based on our prior work on adaptive ramp building algorithms, but it eliminates the assumption of having specialized building materials that simplify manipulation and planning for stability. Utilizing irregularly shaped stones makes the problem significantly more challenging since the outcome of individual placements is sensitive to details of contact geometry and friction, which are difficult to observe. To reuse the same high-level algorithm, we develop a new physics-based planner that explicitly considers the uncertainty produced by incomplete in-situ sensing and imprecision during pickup and placement. We demonstrate the approach on a robotic system that uses a newly developed gripper to reliably pick up stones with minimal additional sensors or complex grasp planning. The resulting system can build structures with more than 70 stones, which in turn provide traversable paths to previously inaccessible locations.


Title: 6DFC: Efficiently Planning Soft Non-Planar Area Contact Grasps using 6D Friction Cones
Abstract: Analytic grasp planning algorithms typically approximate compliant contacts with soft point contact models to compute grasp quality, but these models are overly conservative and do not capture the full range of grasps available. While area contact models can reduce the number of false negatives predicted by point contact models, they have been restricted to a 3D analysis of the wrench applied at the contact and so are still overly conservative. We extend traditional 3D friction cones and present an efficient algorithm for calculating the 6D friction cone (6DFC) for a non-planar area contact between a compliant gripper and a rigid object. We introduce a novel sampling algorithm to find the 6D friction limit surface for a non-planar area contact and a linearization method for these ellipsoids that reduces the computation of 6DFC constraints to a quadratic program. We show that constraining the wrench applied at the contact in this way increases recall, a metric inversely related to the number of false negative predictions, by 17% and precision, a metric inversely related to the number of false positive predictions, by 2% over soft point contact models on results from 1500 physical grasps on 12 3D printed nonplanar objects with an ABB YuMi robot. The 6DFC algorithm also achieves 6% higher recall with similar precision and 85x faster runtime than a previously proposed area contact model.


Title: Versatile Trajectory Optimization Using a LCP Wheel Model for Dynamic Vehicle Maneuvers
Abstract: Car models have been extensively studied at varying levels of abstraction, and planning and executing motions under ideal conditions is well researched and understood. For more aggressive maneuvers, for example when drifting or skidding, empirical and/or discontinuous friction models have been used to explain and approximate real world contact behavior. Separately, contact dynamics have been extensively studied by the robotics community, often times formulated as a linear complementarity problem (LCP) for dynamic multi-rigid-body contact problems with Coulomb friction cone approximations. In this work, we explore the validity of using such an anisotropic Coulomb friction cone to model tire dynamics to plan for vehicle motion, and present a versatile trajectory optimization framework using this model that can both avoid and/or exploit wheel skidding, depending on the cost function and planning horizon. Experimental evidence of planning and executing dynamic drift parking is shown on a 1/16 scale model car.


Title: Development of a Robotic System for Automated Decaking of 3D-Printed Parts
Abstract: With the rapid rise of 3D-printing as a competitive mass manufacturing method, manual "decaking" - i.e. removing the residual powder that sticks to a 3D-printed part - has become a significant bottleneck. Here, we introduce, for the first time to our knowledge, a robotic system for automated decaking of 3D-printed parts. Combining Deep Learning for 3D perception, smart mechanical design, motion planning, and force control for industrial robots, we developed a system that can automatically decake parts in a fast and efficient way. Through a series of decaking experiments performed on parts printed by a Multi Jet Fusion printer, we demonstrated the feasibility of robotic decaking for 3D-printing-based mass manufacturing.


Title: A Fast Configuration Space Algorithm for Variable Topology Truss Modular Robots
Abstract: The Variable Topology Truss (VTT) is a new class of self-reconfigurable robot that can reconfigure its truss shape and topology depending on the task or environment requirements. Motion planning and avoiding self-collision are difficult as these systems usually have dozens of degrees-of-freedom with complex intersecting parallel actuation. There are two different types of shape changing actions for a VTT: geometry reconfiguration and topology reconfiguration. This paper focuses on the geometry reconfiguration actions. A new cell decomposition approach is presented based on a fast and complete method to compute the collision-free space of a node in a truss. A simple shape-morphing method is shown to quickly create motion paths for reconfiguration by moving one node at a time.


Title: An Actuation Fault Tolerance Approach to Reconfiguration Planning of Modular Self-folding Robots
Abstract: This paper presents a novel approach to fault tolerant reconfiguration of modular self-folding robots. Among various types of faults that probably occur in the modular system, we focus on the tolerance of complete actuation failure of active modules that might cause imprecise robotic motion and even reconfiguration failure. Our approach is to utilize the reconfigurability of modular self-folding robots and investigate intra-module connection to determine initial patterns that are inherently fault tolerant. We exploit the redundancy of actuation and distribute active modules in both layout-based and target-based scenarios, such that reconfiguration schemes with user-specified fault tolerant capability can be generated for an arbitrary input initial pattern or 3D configuration. Our methods are demonstrated in computer-aided simulation on the robotic platform of Mori, a modular origami robot. The simulation results validate that the proposed algorithms yield fault tolerant initial patterns and distribution schemes of active modules for several 2D and 3D configurations with Mori, while retaining generalizability for a large number of modular self-folding robots.


Title: Quantifying Good Seamanship For Autonomous Surface Vessel Performance Evaluation
Abstract: The current state-of-the-art for testing and evaluation of autonomous surface vehicle (ASV) decision-making is currently limited to one-versus-one vessel interactions by determining compliance with the International Regulations for Prevention of Collisions at Sea, referred to as COLREGS. Strict measurement of COLREGS compliance, however, loses value in multi-vessel encounters, as there can be conflicting rules which make determining compliance extremely subjective. This work proposes several performance metrics to evaluate ASV decision-making based on the concept of "good seamanship," a practice which generalizes to multi-vessel encounters. Methodology for quantifying good seamanship is presented based on the criteria of reducing the overall collision risk of the situation and taking early, appropriate actions. Case study simulation results are presented to showcase the seamanship performance criteria against different ASV planning strategies.


Title: Action-conditioned Benchmarking of Robotic Video Prediction Models: a Comparative Study
Abstract: A defining characteristic of intelligent systems is the ability to make action decisions based on the anticipated outcomes. Video prediction systems have been demonstrated as a solution for predicting how the future will unfold visually, and thus, many models have been proposed that are capable of predicting future frames based on a history of observed frames (and sometimes robot actions). However, a comprehensive method for determining the fitness of different video prediction models at guiding the selection of actions is yet to be developed.Current metrics assess video prediction models based on human perception of frame quality. In contrast, we argue that if these systems are to be used to guide action, necessarily, the actions the robot performs should be encoded in the predicted frames. In this paper, we are proposing a new metric to compare different video prediction models based on this argument. More specifically, we propose an action inference system and quantitatively rank different models based on how well we can infer the robot actions from the predicted frames. Our extensive experiments show that models with high perceptual scores can perform poorly in the proposed action inference tests and thus, may not be suitable options to be used in robot planning systems.


Title: Hyperproperties for Robotics: Planning via HyperLTL
Abstract: There is a growing interest on formal methods-based robotic planning for temporal logic objectives. In this work, we extend the scope of existing synthesis methods to hyper-temporal logics. We are motivated by the fact that important planning objectives, such as optimality, robustness, and privacy, (maybe implicitly) involve the interrelation between multiple paths. Such objectives are thus hyperproperties, and cannot be expressed with usual temporal logics like the linear temporal logic (LTL). We show that such hyperproperties can be expressed by HyperLTL, an extension of LTL to multiple paths. To handle the complexity of planning with HyperLTL specifications, we introduce a symbolic approach for synthesizing planning strategies on discrete transition systems. Our planning method is evaluated on several case studies.


Title: Abstractions for computing all robotic sensors that suffice to solve a planning problem
Abstract: Whether a robot can perform some specific task depends on several aspects, including the robot's sensors and the plans it possesses. We are interested in search algorithms that treat plans and sensor designs jointly, yielding solutions-i.e., plan and sensor characterization pairs-if and only if they exist. Such algorithms can help roboticists explore the space of sensors to aid in making design trade-offs. Generalizing prior work where sensors are modeled abstractly as sensor maps on p-graphs, the present paper increases the potential sensors which can be sought significantly. But doing so enlarges a problem currently on the outer limits of being considered tractable. Toward taming this complexity, two contributions are made: (1) we show how to represent the search space for this more general problem and describe data structures that enable whole sets of sensors to be summarized via a single special representative; (2) we give a means by which other structure (either task domain knowledge, sensor technology or fabrication constraints) can be incorporated to reduce the sets to be enumerated. These lead to algorithms that we have implemented and which suffice to solve particular problem instances, albeit only of small scale. Nevertheless, the algorithm aids in helping understand what attributes sensors must possess and what information they must provide in order to ensure a robot can achieve its goals despite non-determinism.


Title: T* : A Heuristic Search Based Path Planning Algorithm for Temporal Logic Specifications
Abstract: The fundamental path planning problem for a mobile robot involves generating a trajectory for point-to-point navigation while avoiding obstacles. Heuristic-based search algorithms like A* have been shown to be efficient in solving such planning problems. Recently, there has been an increased interest in specifying complex path planning problem using temporal logic. In the state-of-the-art algorithm, the temporal logic path planning problem is reduced to a graph search problem, and Dijkstra's shortest path algorithm is used to compute the optimal trajectory satisfying the specification. The A* algorithm, when used with an appropriate heuristic for the distance from the destination, can generate an optimal path in a graph more efficiently than Dijkstra's shortest path algorithm. The primary challenge for using A* algorithm in temporal logic path planning is that there is no notion of a single destination state for the robot. We present a novel path planning algorithm T* that uses the A* search procedure opportunistically to generate an optimal trajectory satisfying a temporal logic query. Our experimental results demonstrate that T* achieves an order of magnitude improvement over the state-of-the-art algorithm to solve many temporal logic path planning problems in 2-D as well as 3-D workspaces.


Title: Global/local motion planning based on Dynamic Trajectory Reconfiguration and Dynamical Systems for Autonomous Surgical Robots
Abstract: This paper addresses the generation of collision-free trajectories for the autonomous execution of assistive tasks in Robotic Minimally Invasive Surgery (R-MIS). The proposed approach takes into account geometric constraints related to the desired task, like for example the direction to approach the final target and the presence of moving obstacles. The developed motion planner is structured as a two-layer architecture: a global level computes smooth spline-based trajectories that are continuously updated using virtual potential fields; a local level, exploiting Dynamical Systems based obstacle avoidance, ensures collision free connections among the spline control points. The proposed architecture is validated in a realistic surgical scenario.


Title: Deep Imitative Reinforcement Learning for Temporal Logic Robot Motion Planning with Noisy Semantic Observations
Abstract: In this paper, we propose a Deep Imitative Q-learning (DIQL) method to synthesize control policies for mobile robots that need to satisfy Linear Temporal Logic (LTL) specifications using noisy semantic observations of their surroundings. The robot sensing error is modeled using probabilistic labels defined over the states of a Labeled Transition System (LTS) and the robot mobility is modeled using a Labeled Markov Decision Process (LMDP) with unknown transition probabilities. We use existing product-based model checkers (PMCs) as experts to guide the Q-learning algorithm to convergence. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first approach that models noise in semantic observations using probabilistic labeling functions and employs existing model checkers to provide suboptimal instructions to the Q-learning agent.


Title: Map-Predictive Motion Planning in Unknown Environments
Abstract: Algorithms for motion planning in unknown environments are generally limited in their ability to reason about the structure of the unobserved environment. As such, current methods generally navigate unknown environments by relying on heuristic methods to choose intermediate objectives along frontiers. We present a unified method that combines map prediction and motion planning for safe, time-efficient au-tonomous navigation of unknown environments by dynamically-constrained robots. We propose a data-driven method for predicting the map of the unobserved environment, using the robot's observations of its surroundings as context. These map predictions are then used to plan trajectories from the robot's position to the goal without requiring frontier selection. We applied this map-predictive motion planning strategy to randomly generated winding hallway environments, yielding substantial improvement in trajectory duration over a naïve frontier pursuit method. We also experimentally demonstrate similar performance to methods using more sophisticated fron-tier selection heuristics while significantly reducing computation time.


Title: A Feature-Based Underwater Path Planning Approach using Multiple Perspective Prior Maps
Abstract: This paper presents a path planning methodology which enables Autonomous Underwater Vehicles (AUVs) to navigate in shallow complex environments such as coral reefs. The approach leverages prior information from an aerial photographic survey, and derived bathymetric information of the corresponding area. From these prior maps, a set of features is obtained which define an expected arrangement of objects and bathymetry likely to be perceived by the AUV when underwater. A navigation graph is then constructed by predicting the arrangement of features visible from a set of test points within the prior, which allows the calculation of the shortest paths from any pair of start and destination points. A maximum likelihood function is defined which allows the AUV to match its observations to the navigation graph as it undertakes its mission. To improve robustness, the history of observed features are retained to facilitate possible recovery from non-detectable or misclassified objects. The approach is evaluated using a photo-realistic simulated environment, and results illustrate the merits of the approach even when only a relatively small number of features can be identified from the prior map.


Title: Actively Mapping Industrial Structures with Information Gain-Based Planning on a Quadruped Robot
Abstract: In this paper, we develop an online active mapping system to enable a quadruped robot to autonomously survey large physical structures. We describe the perception, planning and control modules needed to scan and reconstruct an object of interest, without requiring a prior model. The system builds a voxel representation of the object, and iteratively determines the Next-Best-View (NBV) to extend the representation, according to both the reconstruction itself and to avoid collisions with the environment. By computing the expected information gain of a set of candidate scan locations sampled on the as-sensed terrain map, as well as the cost of reaching these candidates, the robot decides the NBV for further exploration. The robot plans an optimal path towards the NBV, avoiding obstacles and un-traversable terrain. Experimental results on both simulated and real-world environments show the capability and efficiency of our system. Finally we present a full system demonstration on the real robot, the ANYbotics ANYmal, autonomously reconstructing a building facade and an industrial structure.


Title: Optimal Reduced-order Modeling of Bipedal Locomotion
Abstract: State-of-the-art approaches to legged locomotion are widely dependent on the use of models like the linear inverted pendulum (LIP) and the spring-loaded inverted pendulum (SLIP), popular because their simplicity enables a wide array of tools for planning, control, and analysis. However, they inevitably limit the ability to execute complex tasks or agile maneuvers. In this work, we aim to automatically synthesize models that remain low-dimensional but retain the capabilities of the high-dimensional system. For example, if one were to restore a small degree of complexity to LIP, SLIP, or a similar model, our approach discovers the form of that additional complexity which optimizes performance. In this paper, we define a class of reduced-order models and provide an algorithm for optimization within this class. To demonstrate our method, we optimize models for walking at a range of speeds and ground inclines, for both a five-link model and the Cassie bipedal robot.


Title: Online Planning for Quadrotor Teams in 3-D Workspaces via Reachability Analysis On Invariant Geometric Trees
Abstract: We consider the kinodynamic multi-robot planning problem in cluttered 3-D workspaces. Reachability analysis on position invariant geometric trees is leveraged to find kino- dynamically feasible trajectories for the multi-robot team from potentially non-stationary initial states. The key contribution of our approach is that a collision-free geometric solution guarantees a kinodynamically feasible, safe solution without additional refinement. Simulation results with up-to 40 robots and hardware results with 5 robots suggest the viability of the proposed approach for online planning and replanning for large teams of aerial robots in cluttered 3-D workspaces.


Title: DC-CAPT: Concurrent Assignment and Planning of Trajectories for Dubins Cars
Abstract: We present an algorithm for the concurrent assignment and planning of collision-free trajectories (DC-CAPT) for robots whose kinematics can be modeled as Dubins cars, i.e., robots constrained in terms of their initial orientation and their minimum turning radius. Coupling the assignment and trajectory planning subproblems allows for a computationally tractable solution. This solution is guaranteed to be collision- free through the use of a single constraint: the start and goal locations have separation distance greater than some threshold. We derive this separation distance by extending a prior work that assumed holonomic robots. We demonstrate the validity of our approach, and show its efficacy through simulations and experiments where groups of robots executing Dubins curves travel to their assigned goal locations without collisions.


Title: Inferring Task-Space Central Pattern Generator Parameters for Closed-loop Control of Underactuated Robots
Abstract: The complexity associated with the control of highly-articulated legged robots scales quickly as the number of joints increases. Traditional approaches to the control of these robots are often impractical for many real-time applications. This work thus presents a novel sampling-based planning approach for highly-articulated robots that utilizes a probabilistic graphical model (PGM) to infer in real-time how to optimally modify goal-driven, locomotive behaviors for use in closed-loop control. Locomotive behaviors are quantified in terms of the parameters associated with a network of neural oscillators, or rather a central pattern generator (CPG). For the first time, we show that the PGM can be used to optimally modulate different behaviors in real-time (i.e., to select of optimal choice of parameter values across the CPG model) in response to changes both in the local environment and in the desired control signal. The PGM is trained offline using a library of optimal behaviors that are generated using a gradient-free optimization framework.


Title: In-Hand Manipulation of Objects with Unknown Shapes
Abstract: This work addresses the problem of changing grasp configurations on objects with an unknown shape through in-hand manipulation. Our approach leverages shape priors, learned as deep generative models, to infer novel object shapes from partial visual sensing. The Dexterous Manipulation Graph method is extended to build incrementally and account for object shape uncertainty when planning a sequence of manipulation actions. We show that our approach successfully solves in-hand manipulation tasks with unknown objects, and demonstrate the validity of these solutions with robot experiments.


Title: Tactile Dexterity: Manipulation Primitives with Tactile Feedback
Abstract: This paper develops closed-loop tactile controllers for dexterous robotic manipulation with a dual-palm robotic system. Tactile dexterity is an approach to dexterous manipulation that plans for robot/object interactions that render interpretable tactile information for control. We divide the role of tactile control into two goals: 1) control the contact state between the end-effector and the object (contact/no-contact, stick/slip) by regulating the stability of planned contact configurations and monitoring undesired slip events; and 2) control the object state by tactile-based tracking and iterative replanning of the object and robot trajectories. Key to this formulation is the decomposition of manipulation plans into sequences of manipulation primitives with simple mechanics and efficient planners. We consider the scenario of manipulating an object from an initial pose to a target pose on a flat surface while correcting for external perturbations and uncertainty in the initial pose of the object. We experimentally validate the approach with an ABB YuMi dual-arm robot and demonstrate the ability of the tactile controller to react to external perturbations.


Title: Design and Analysis of a Synergy-Inspired Three-Fingered Hand
Abstract: Hand synergy from neuroscience provides an effective tool for anthropomorphic hands to realize versatile grasping with simple planning and control. This paper aims to extend the synergy-inspired design from anthropomorphic hands to multi-fingered robot hands. The synergy-inspired hands are not necessarily humanoid in morphology but perform primary characteristics and functions similar to the human hand. At first, the biomechanics of hand synergy is investigated. Three biomechanical characteristics of the human hand synergy are explored as a basis for the mechanical simplification of the robot hands. Secondly, according to the synergy characteristics, a three-fingered hand is designed, and its kinematic model is developed for the analysis of some typical grasping and manipulation functions. Finally, a prototype is developed and preliminary grasping experiments validate the effectiveness of the design and analysis.


Title: Photometric Path Planning for Vision-Based Navigation
Abstract: We present a vision-based navigation system that uses a visual memory to navigate. Such memory corresponds to a topological map of key images created from moving a virtual camera over a model of the real scene. The advantage of our approach is that it provides a useful insight into the navigability of a visual path without relying on a traditional learning stage. During the navigation stage, the robot is controlled by sequentially comparing the images stored in the memory with the images acquired by the onboard camera.The evaluation is conducted on a robotic arm equipped with a camera and the model of the environment corresponds to a top view image of an urban scene.


Title: Contact-based Bounding Volume Hierarchy for Assembly Tasks
Abstract: Path planning of an object which is allowed to be in contact with other objects during assembly process is a significant challenge due to the variety of permitted or forbidden collisions between the distinct parts of the objects to be assembled. In order to put objects together in real-life scenarios, parts of assembled objects may be required to flex, whereas other parts may have to fit exactly. Consequently, existing collision checking and distance computation algorithms have to be modified to enable path planning of objects that can be in contact during the assembly process. In this paper, we analyze an improved broad phase proximity query algorithm to enable such contact-based assembly tasks we call CHAT (Contact-based Hierarchy for Assembly Tasks). We demonstrate that, compared to existing approaches, our proposed method is more than an order of magnitude faster for collision queries and up to three times faster for distance queries when the two objects contain a large number of parts (with some parts containing thousands or tens of thousands of triangles). Due to the nature of the algorithm, we expect the performance improvements to increase as the number of parts in an object becomes larger.


Title: Probabilistic Effect Prediction through Semantic Augmentation and Physical Simulation
Abstract: Nowadays, robots are mechanically able to perform highly demanding tasks, where AI-based planning methods are used to schedule a sequence of actions that result in the desired effect. However, it is not always possible to know the exact outcome of an action in advance, as failure situations may occur at any time. To enhance failure tolerance, we propose to predict the effects of robot actions by augmenting collected experience with semantic knowledge and leveraging realistic physics simulations. That is, we consider semantic similarity of actions in order to predict outcome probabilities for previously unknown tasks. Furthermore, physical simulation is used to gather simulated experience that makes the approach robust even in extreme cases. We show how this concept is used to predict action success probabilities and how this information can be exploited throughout future planning trials. The concept is evaluated in a series of real world experiments conducted with the humanoid robot Rollin' Justin.


Title: Anytime Integrated Task and Motion Policies for Stochastic Environments
Abstract: In order to solve complex, long-horizon tasks, intelligent robots need to carry out high-level, abstract planning and reasoning in conjunction with motion planning. However, abstract models are typically lossy and plans or policies computed using them can be unexecutable. These problems are exacerbated in stochastic situations where the robot needs to reason about, and plan for multiple contingencies. We present a new approach for integrated task and motion planning in stochastic settings. In contrast to prior work in this direction, we show that our approach can effectively compute integrated task and motion policies whose branching structures encoding agent behaviors handling multiple execution-time contingencies. We prove that our algorithm is probabilistically complete and can compute feasible solution policies in an anytime fashion so that the probability of encountering an unresolved contingency decreases over time. Empirical results on a set of challenging problems show the utility and scope of our methods.


Title: A Data-driven Planning Framework for Robotic Texture Painting on 3D Surfaces
Abstract: Painting textures on 3D surfaces requires an understanding of the surface geometry, paint flow and paint mixing. This work formulates automated painting as a planning problem and proposes a solution based on a self-supervised learning framework that enables a robot to paint monochromatic non-uniform textures on 3D surfaces. We developed a method that iteratively decides the actions to take based on constant feedback of the painting process. Inspired by recent results, we formulate our solution using a recurrent neural network (RNN) to decide where and what to paint on the surface at each time instant. Specifically, the paint delivery tool's flow rate, orientation and position relative to the surface at each time instant are evaluated. This data can then be processed by a robot's planner of choice for generating a painting mission that can achieve the desired end result. We evaluate the proposed approach by providing qualitative and quantitative results of the different components. Furthermore, we validate the effectiveness of the approach for the application by providing renderings from a paint simulation environment and show how a robot executes the planned painting mission on a generic 3D surface.


Title: Learned Critical Probabilistic Roadmaps for Robotic Motion Planning
Abstract: Sampling-based motion planning techniques have emerged as an efficient algorithmic paradigm for solving complex motion planning problems. These approaches use a set of probing samples to construct an implicit graph representation of the robot's state space, allowing arbitrarily accurate representations as the number of samples increases to infinity. In practice, however, solution trajectories only rely on a few critical states, often defined by structure in the state space (e.g., doorways). In this work we propose a general method to identify these critical states via graph-theoretic techniques (betweenness centrality) and learn to predict criticality from only local environment features. These states are then leveraged more heavily via global connections within a hierarchical graph, termed Critical Probabilistic Roadmaps. Critical PRMs are demonstrated to achieve up to three orders of magnitude improvement over uniform sampling, while preserving the guarantees and complexity of sampling-based motion planning. A video is available at https://youtu.be/AYoD-pGd9ms.


Title: Learning Heuristic A*: Efficient Graph Search using Neural Network
Abstract: In this paper, we consider the path planning problem on a graph. To reduce computation load by efficiently exploring the graph, we model the heuristic function as a neural network, which is trained by a training set derived from optimal paths to estimate the optimal cost between a pair of vertices on the graph. As such heuristic function cannot be proved to be an admissible heuristic to guarantee the global optimality of the path, we adapt an admissible heuristic function for the terminating criteria. Thus, proposed Learning Heuristic A* (LHA*) guarantees the bounded suboptimality of the path. The performance of LHA* was demonstrated by simulations in a maze-like map and compared with the performance of weighted A* with the same suboptimality bound.


Title: 3D-CNN Based Heuristic Guided Task-Space Planner for Faster Motion Planning
Abstract: Motion planning is important in a wide variety of applications such as robotic manipulation. However, it is still challenging to reliably find a collision-free path within a reasonable time. To address the issue, this paper proposes a novel framework which combines a sampling-based planner and deep learning for faster motion planning, focusing on heuristics. The proposed method extends Task-Space Rapidly-exploring Random Trees (TS-RRT) to guide the trees with a "heuristic map" where every voxel has a cost-to-go value toward the goal. It also utilizes fully convolutional neural networks (CNNs) for producing more appropriate heuristic maps, rather than manually-designed heuristics. To verify the effectiveness of the proposed method, experiments for motion planning using a real environment and mobile manipulator are carried out. The results indicate that it outperforms the existing planners, especially in terms of the average planning time with smaller variance.


Title: Learned Sampling Distributions for Efficient Planning in Hybrid Geometric and Object-Level Representations
Abstract: We would like to enable a robotic agent to quickly and intelligently find promising trajectories through structured, unknown environments. Many approaches to navigation in unknown environments are limited to considering geometric information only, which leads to myopic behavior. In this work, we show that learning a sampling distribution that incorporates both geometric information and explicit, object-level semantics for sampling-based planners enables efficient planning at longer horizons in partially-known environments. We demonstrate that our learned planner is up to 2.7 times more likely to find a plan than the baseline, and can result in up to a 16% reduction in traversal costs as calculated by linear regression. We also show promising qualitative results on real-world data.


Title: Deep Visual Heuristics: Learning Feasibility of Mixed-Integer Programs for Manipulation Planning
Abstract: In this paper, we propose a deep neural network that predicts the feasibility of a mixed-integer program from visual input for robot manipulation planning. Integrating learning into task and motion planning is challenging, since it is unclear how the scene and goals can be encoded as input to the learning algorithm in a way that enables to generalize over a variety of tasks in environments with changing numbers of objects and goals. To achieve this, we propose to encode the scene and the target object directly in the image space.Our experiments show that our proposed network generalizes to scenes with multiple objects, although during training only two objects are present at the same time. By using the learned network as a heuristic to guide the search over the discrete variables of the mixed-integer program, the number of optimization problems that have to be solved to find a feasible solution or to detect infeasibility can greatly be reduced.


Title: Fast Frontier-based Information-driven Autonomous Exploration with an MAV
Abstract: Exploration and collision-free navigation through an unknown environment is a fundamental task for autonomous robots. In this paper, a novel exploration strategy for Micro Aerial Vehicles (MAVs) is presented. The goal of the exploration strategy is the reduction of map entropy regarding occupancy probabilities, which is reflected in a utility function to be maximised. We achieve fast and efficient exploration performance with tight integration between our octree-based occupancy mapping approach, frontier extraction, and motion planning-as a hybrid between frontier-based and sampling-based exploration methods. The computationally expensive frontier clustering employed in classic frontier-based exploration is avoided by exploiting the implicit grouping of frontier voxels in the underlying octree map representation. Candidate next-views are sampled from the map frontiers and are evaluated using a utility function combining map entropy and travel time, where the former is computed efficiently using sparse raycasting. These optimisations along with the targeted exploration of frontier-based methods result in a fast and computationally efficient exploration planner. The proposed method is evaluated using both simulated and real-world experiments, demonstrating clear advantages over state-of-the-art approaches.


Title: Dynamic Landing of an Autonomous Quadrotor on a Moving Platform in Turbulent Wind Conditions
Abstract: Autonomous landing on a moving platform presents unique challenges for multirotor vehicles, including the need to accurately localize the platform, fast trajectory planning, and precise/robust control. Previous works studied this problem but most lack explicit consideration of the wind disturbance, which typically leads to slow descents onto the platform. This work presents a fully autonomous vision-based system that addresses these limitations by tightly coupling the localization, planning, and control, thereby enabling fast and accurate landing on a moving platform. The platform's position, orientation, and velocity are estimated by an extended Kalman filter using simulated GPS measurements when the quadrotor-platform distance is large, and by a visual fiducial system when the platform is nearby. The landing trajectory is computed online using receding horizon control and is followed by a boundary layer sliding controller that provides tracking performance guarantees in the presence of unknown, but bounded, disturbances. To improve the performance, the characteristics of the turbulent conditions are accounted for in the controller. The landing trajectory is fast, direct, and does not require hovering over the platform, as is typical of most stateof-the-art approaches. Simulations and hardware experiments are presented to validate the robustness of the approach.


Title: Direct NMPC for Post-Stall Motion Planning with Fixed-Wing UAVs
Abstract: Fixed-wing unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs) offer significant performance advantages over rotary-wing UAVs in terms of speed, endurance, and efficiency. However, these vehicles have traditionally been severely limited with regards to maneuverability. In this paper, we present a nonlinear control approach for enabling aerobatic fixed-wing UAVs to maneuver in constrained spaces. Our approach utilizes full-state direct trajectory optimization and a minimalistic, but representative, nonlinear aircraft model to plan aggressive fixed-wing trajectories in real-time at 5 Hz across high angles-of-attack. Randomized motion planning is used to avoid local minima and local-linear feedback is used to compensate for model inaccuracies between updates. We demonstrate our method in hardware and show that both local-linear feedback and re-planning are necessary for successful navigation of a complex environment in the presence of model uncertainty.


Title: Hybrid Topological and 3D Dense Mapping through Autonomous Exploration for Large Indoor Environments
Abstract: Robots require a detailed understanding of the 3D structure of the environment for autonomous navigation and path planning. A popular approach is to represent the environment using metric, dense 3D maps such as 3D occupancy grids. However, in large environments the computational power required for most state-of-the-art 3D dense mapping systems is compromising precision and real-time capability. In this work, we propose a novel mapping method that is able to build and maintain 3D dense representations for large indoor environments using standard CPUs. Topological global representations and 3D dense submaps are maintained as hybrid global map. Submaps are generated for every new visited place. A place (room) is identified as an isolated part of the environment connected to other parts through transit areas (doors). This semantic partitioning of the environment allows for a more efficient mapping and path-planning. We also propose a method for autonomous exploration that directly builds the hybrid representation in real time.We validate the real-time performance of our hybrid system on simulated and real environments regarding mapping and path-planning. The improvement in execution time and memory requirements upholds the contribution of the proposed work.


Title: Look, Listen, and Act: Towards Audio-Visual Embodied Navigation
Abstract: A crucial ability of mobile intelligent agents is to integrate the evidence from multiple sensory inputs in an environment and to make a sequence of actions to reach their goals. In this paper, we attempt to approach the problem of Audio-Visual Embodied Navigation, the task of planning the shortest path from a random starting location in a scene to the sound source in an indoor environment, given only raw egocentric visual and audio sensory data. To accomplish this task, the agent is required to learn from various modalities, i.e., relating the audio signal to the visual environment. Here we describe an approach to audio-visual embodied navigation that takes advantage of both visual and audio pieces of evidence. Our solution is based on three key ideas: a visual perception mapper module that constructs its spatial memory of the environment, a sound perception module that infers the relative location of the sound source from the agent, and a dynamic path planner that plans a sequence of actions based on the audio-visual observations and the spatial memory of the environment to navigate toward the goal. Experimental results on a newly collected Visual-Audio-Room dataset using the simulated multi-modal environment demonstrate the effectiveness of our approach over several competitive baselines.


Title: Multi-Robot Path Deconfliction through Prioritization by Path Prospects
Abstract: This work deals with the problem of planning conflict-free paths for mobile robots in cluttered environments. Since centralized, coupled planning algorithms are computationally intractable for large numbers of robots, we consider decoupled planning, in which robots plan their paths sequentially in order of priority. Choosing how to prioritize the robots is a key consideration. State-of-the-art prioritization heuristics, however, do not model the coupling between a robot's mobility and its environment. This is particularly relevant when prioritizing between robots with different degrees of mobility. In this paper, we propose a prioritization rule that can be computed online by each robot independently, and that provides consistent, conflict-free path plans. Our innovation is to formalize a robot's path prospects to reach its goal from its current location. To this end, we consider the number of homology classes of trajectories, which capture distinct prospects of paths for each robot. This measure is used as a prioritization rule, whenever any robots enter negotiation to deconflict path plans. We perform simulations with heterogeneous robot teams and compare our method to five benchmarks. Our method achieves the highest success rate, and strikes a good balance between makespan and flowtime objectives.


Title: A Connectivity-Prediction Algorithm and its Application in Active Cooperative Localization for Multi-Robot Systems
Abstract: This paper presents a method for predicting the probability of future connectivity between mobile robots with range-limited communication. In particular, we focus on its application to active motion planning for cooperative localization (CL). The probability of connection is modeled by the distribution of quadratic forms in random normal variables and is computed by the infinite power series expansion theorem. A finite-term approximation is made to realize the computational feasibility and three more modifications are designed to handle the adverse impacts introduced by the omission of the higher order series terms. On the basis of this algorithm, an active and CL problem with leader-follower architecture is then reformulated into a Markov Decision Process (MDP) with a one-step planning horizon, and the optimal motion strategy is generated by minimizing the expected cost of the MDP. Extensive simulations and comparisons are presented to show the effectiveness and efficiency of both the proposed prediction algorithm and the MDP model.


Title: Picking Thin Objects by Tilt-and-Pivot Manipulation and Its Application to Bin Picking
Abstract: This paper introduces the technique of tilt-and-pivot manipulation, a new method for picking thin, rigid objects lying on a flat surface through robotic dexterous in-hand manipulation. During the manipulation process, the gripper is controlled to reorient about the contact with the object such that its finger can get in the space between the object and the supporting surface, which is formed by tilting up the object, with no relative sliding motion at the contact. As a result, a pinch grasp can be obtained on the faces of the thin object with ease. We discuss issues regarding the kinematics and planning of tilt-and-pivot, effector shape design, and the overall practicality of the manipulation technique, which is general enough to be applicable to any rigid convex polygonal objects. We also present a set of experiments in a range of bin picking scenarios.


Title: Local Obstacle-Skirting Path Planning for a Fast Bi-steerable Rover using Bézier Curves
Abstract: This paper focuses on local path planning for obstacle avoidance tasks dedicated to off-road mobile robots. This approach calculates a new local path for the vehicle using a set of cubic Bezier curves once the safety distance is not respected; otherwise, the vehicle follows the global reference path which is defined off-line. Two basic steps are used to determine this new path. Firstly, some significant points that should belong to the planned path are extracted on-line according to the obstacle's sizes and the current state of the vehicle, these points are approved as waypoints. Secondly, on-line cubic Bezier curves are computed to create a smooth path for these points such that the safety and lateral stability of the vehicle are ensured (i.e., preventing huge curvatures and wide-variation in steering angles). This path will be used as a reference to be performed by the vehicle using a constrained model predictive control. The validation of our navigation strategy is performed via numerical simulations and experiments using a fast double-steering rover.


Title: Path Planning in Dynamic Environments using Generative RNNs and Monte Carlo Tree Search
Abstract: State of the art methods for robotic path planning in dynamic environments, such as crowds or traffic, rely on hand crafted motion models for agents. These models often do not reflect interactions of agents in real world scenarios. To overcome this limitation, this paper proposes an integrated path planning framework using generative Recurrent Neural Networks within a Monte Carlo Tree Search (MCTS). This approach uses a learnt model of social response to predict crowd dynamics during planning across the action space. This extends our recent work using generative RNNs to learn the relationship between planned robotic actions and the likely response of a crowd. We show that the proposed framework can considerably improve motion prediction accuracy during interactions, allowing more effective path planning. The performance of our method is compared in simulation with existing methods for collision avoidance in a crowd of pedestrians, demonstrating the ability to control future states of nearby individuals. We also conduct preliminary real world tests to validate the effectiveness of our method.


Title: Near-Optimal Reactive Synthesis Incorporating Runtime Information
Abstract: We consider the problem of optimal reactive synthesis - compute a strategy that satisfies a mission specification in a dynamic environment, and optimizes a given performance metric. We incorporate task-critical information, that is only available at runtime, into the strategy synthesis in order to improve performance. Existing approaches to utilising such time-varying information require online re-synthesis, which is not computationally feasible in real-time applications. In this paper, we presynthesize a set of strategies corresponding to candidate instantiations (pre-specified representative information scenarios). We then propose a novel switching mechanism to dynamically switch between the strategies at runtime while guaranteeing all safety and liveness goals are met. We also characterize bounds on the performance suboptimality. We demonstrate our approach on two examples - robotic motion planning where the likelihood of the position of the robot's goal is updated in real-time, and an air traffic management problem for urban air mobility.


Title: Control Synthesis from Linear Temporal Logic Specifications using Model-Free Reinforcement Learning
Abstract: We present a reinforcement learning (RL) frame-work to synthesize a control policy from a given linear temporal logic (LTL) specification in an unknown stochastic environment that can be modeled as a Markov Decision Process (MDP). Specifically, we learn a policy that maximizes the probability of satisfying the LTL formula without learning the transition probabilities. We introduce a novel rewarding and discounting mechanism based on the LTL formula such that (i) an optimal policy maximizing the total discounted reward effectively maximizes the probabilities of satisfying LTL objectives, and (ii) a model-free RL algorithm using these rewards and discount factors is guaranteed to converge to such a policy. Finally, we illustrate the applicability of our RL-based synthesis approach on two motion planning case studies.


Title: Transferable Task Execution from Pixels through Deep Planning Domain Learning
Abstract: While robots can learn models to solve many manipulation tasks from raw visual input, they cannot usually use these models to solve new problems. On the other hand, symbolic planning methods such as STRIPS have long been able to solve new problems given only a domain definition and a symbolic goal, but these approaches often struggle on the real world robotic tasks due to the challenges of grounding these symbols from sensor data in a partially-observable world. We propose Deep Planning Domain Learning (DPDL), an approach that combines the strengths of both methods to learn a hierarchical model. DPDL learns a high-level model which predicts values for a large set of logical predicates consisting of the current symbolic world state, and separately learns a low-level policy which translates symbolic operators into executable actions on the robot. This allows us to perform complex, multistep tasks even when the robot has not been explicitly trained on them. We show our method on manipulation tasks in a photorealistic kitchen scenario.


Title: Human Driver Behavior Prediction based on UrbanFlow*
Abstract: How autonomous vehicles and human drivers share public transportation systems is an important problem, as fully automatic transportation environments are still a long way off. Understanding human drivers' behavior can be beneficial for autonomous vehicle decision making and planning, especially when the autonomous vehicle is surrounded by human drivers who have various driving behaviors and patterns of interaction with other vehicles. In this paper, we propose an LSTM-based trajectory prediction method for human drivers which can help the autonomous vehicle make better decisions, especially in urban intersection scenarios. Meanwhile, in order to collect human drivers' driving behavior data in the urban scenario, we describe a system called UrbanFlow which includes the whole procedure from raw bird's-eye view data collection via drone to the final processed trajectories. The system is mainly intended for urban scenarios but can be extended to be used for any traffic scenarios.


Title: Predicting Pushing Action Effects on Spatial Object Relations by Learning Internal Prediction Models
Abstract: Understanding the effects of actions is essential for planning and executing robot tasks. By imagining possible action consequences, a robot can choose specific action parameters to achieve desired goal states. We present an approach for parametrizing pushing actions based on learning internal prediction models. These pushing actions must fulfill constraints given by a high-level planner, e. g., after the push the brown box must be to the right of the orange box. In this work, we represent the perceived scenes as object-centric graphs and learn an internal model, which predicts object pose changes due to pushing actions. We train this internal model on a large synthetic data set, which was generated in simulation, and record a smaller data set on the real robot for evaluation. For a given scene and goal state, the robot generates a set of possible pushing action candidates by sampling the parameter space and then evaluating the candidates by internal simulation, i. e., by comparing the predicted effect resulting from the internal model with the desired effect provided by the high-level planner. In the evaluation, we show that our model achieves high prediction accuracy in scenes with a varying number of objects and, in contrast to state-of-the-art approaches, is able to generalize to scenes with more objects than seen during training. In experiments on the humanoid robot ARMAR-6, we validate the transfer from simulation and show that the learned internal model can be used to manipulate scenes into desired states effectively.


Title: Learning of Key Pose Evaluation for Efficient Multi-contact Motion Planner
Abstract: It is necessary to use not only foot but also hand, knee and other body parts to support body weight for locomotion in uneven terrain. Such multi-contact motion planning is an important research topic including lots of previous works; however, a problem of computational speed of planning is still remaining. In this paper, we propose a learning-based algorithm to speed up the planning. The algorithm reduces replanning of contact states by learning an evaluation function of key pose to reach goal. We investigated the learning performance by comparing three neural network configurations and two activation function. This research aims at achieving robust robotics system in unknown environments.


Title: Differentiable Gaussian Process Motion Planning
Abstract: Modern trajectory optimization based approaches to motion planning are fast, easy to implement, and effective on a wide range of robotics tasks. However, trajectory optimization algorithms have parameters that are typically set in advance (and rarely discussed in detail). Setting these parameters properly can have a significant impact on the practical performance of the algorithm, sometimes making the difference between finding a feasible plan or failing at the task entirely. We propose a method for leveraging past experience to learn how to automatically adapt the parameters of Gaussian Process Motion Planning (GPMP) algorithms. Specifically, we propose a differentiable extension to the GPMP2 algorithm, so that it can be trained end-to-end from data. We perform several experiments that validate our algorithm and illustrate the benefits of our proposed learning-based approach to motion planning.


Title: Learn and Link: Learning Critical Regions for Efficient Planning
Abstract: This paper presents a new approach to learning for motion planning (MP) where critical regions of an environment are learned from a given set of motion plans and used to improve performance on new environments and problem instances. We introduce a new suite of sampling-based motion planners, Learn and Link. Our planners leverage critical regions to overcome the limitations of uniform sampling, while still maintaining guarantees of correctness inherent to sampling-based algorithms. We also show that convolutional neural networks (CNNs) can be used to identify critical regions for motion planning problems. We evaluate Learn and Link against planners from the Open Motion Planning Library (OMPL) using an extensive suite of experiments on challenging motion planning problems. We show that our approach requires far less planning time than existing sampling-based planners.


Title: Informative Path Planning for Active Field Mapping under Localization Uncertainty
Abstract: Information gathering algorithms play a key role in unlocking the potential of robots for efficient data collection in a wide range of applications. However, most existing strategies neglect the fundamental problem of the robot pose uncertainty, which is an implicit requirement for creating robust, high-quality maps. To address this issue, we introduce an informative planning framework for active mapping that explicitly accounts for the pose uncertainty in both the mapping and planning tasks. Our strategy exploits a Gaussian Process (GP) model to capture a target environmental field given the uncertainty on its inputs. For planning, we formulate a new utility function that couples the localization and field mapping objectives in GP-based mapping scenarios in a principled way, without relying on manually-tuned parameters. Extensive simulations show that our approach outperforms existing strategies, reducing mean pose uncertainty and map error. We present a proof of concept in an indoor temperature mapping scenario.


Title: Ensemble of Sparse Gaussian Process Experts for Implicit Surface Mapping with Streaming Data
Abstract: Creating maps is an essential task in robotics and provides the basis for effective planning and navigation. In this paper, we learn a compact and continuous implicit surface map of an environment from a stream of range data with known poses. For this, we create and incrementally adjust an ensemble of approximate Gaussian process (GP) experts which are each responsible for a different part of the map. Instead of inserting all arriving data into the GP models, we greedily trade-off between model complexity and prediction error. Our algorithm therefore uses less resources on areas with few geometric features and more where the environment is rich in variety. We evaluate our approach on synthetic and real-world data sets and analyze sensitivity to parameters and measurement noise. The results show that we can learn compact and accurate implicit surface models under different conditions, with a performance comparable to or better than that of exact GP regression with subsampled data.


Title: Sufficiently Accurate Model Learning
Abstract: Modeling how a robot interacts with the environment around it is an important prerequisite for designing control and planning algorithms. In fact, the performance of controllers and planners is highly dependent on the quality of the model. One popular approach is to learn data driven models in order to compensate for inaccurate physical measurements and to adapt to systems that evolve over time. In this paper, we investigate a method to regularize model learning techniques to provide better error characteristics for traditional control and planning algorithms. This work proposes learning "Sufficiently Accurate" models of dynamics using a primal-dual method that can explicitly enforce constraints on the error in pre-defined parts of the state-space. The result of this method is that the error characteristics of the learned model is more predictable and can be better utilized by planning and control algorithms. The characteristics of Sufficiently Accurate models are analyzed through experiments on a simulated ball paddle system.


Title: Planning an Efficient and Robust Base Sequence for a Mobile Manipulator Performing Multiple Pick-and-place Tasks
Abstract: In this paper, we address efficiently and robustly collecting objects stored in different trays using a mobile manipulator. A resolution complete method, based on precomputed reachability database, is proposed to explore collision-free inverse kinematics (IK) solutions and then a resolution complete set of feasible base positions can be determined. This method approximates a set of representative IK solutions that are especially helpful when solving IK and checking collision are treated separately. For real world applications, we take into account the base positioning uncertainty and plan a sequence of base positions that reduce the number of necessary base movements for collecting the target objects, the base sequence is robust in that the mobile manipulator is able to complete the part-supply task even there is certain deviation from the planned base positions. Our experiments demonstrate both the efficiency compared to regular base sequence and the feasibility in real world applications.


Title: A Model-Free Approach to Meta-Level Control of Anytime Algorithms
Abstract: Anytime algorithms offer a trade-off between solution quality and computation time that has proven to be useful in autonomous systems for a wide range of real-time planning problems. In order to optimize this trade-off, an autonomous system has to solve a challenging meta-level control problem: it must decide when to interrupt the anytime algorithm and act on the current solution. Prevailing meta-level control techniques, however, make a number of unrealistic assumptions that reduce their effectiveness and usefulness in the real world. Eliminating these assumptions, we first introduce a model-free approach to meta-level control based on reinforcement learning and prove its optimality. We then offer a general meta-level control technique that can use different reinforcement learning methods. Finally, we show that our approach is effective across several common benchmark domains and a mobile robot domain.


Title: Efficient Planning for High-Speed MAV Flight in Unknown Environments Using Online Sparse Topological Graphs
Abstract: Safe high-speed autonomous navigation for MAVs in unknown environments requires fast planning to enable the robot to adapt and react quickly to incoming information about obstacles within the world. Furthermore, when operating in environments not known a priori, the robot may make decisions that lead to dead ends, necessitating global replanning through a map of the environment outside of a local planning grid. This work proposes a computationally-efficient planning architecture for safe high-speed operation in unknown environments that incorporates a notion of longer-term memory into the planner enabling the robot to accurately plan to locations no longer contained within a local map. A motion primitive-based local receding horizon planner that uses a probabilistic collision avoidance methodology enables the robot to generate safe plans at fast replan rates. To provide global guidance, a memory-efficient sparse topological graph is created online from a time history of the robot's path and a geometric notion of visibility within the environment to search for alternate pathways towards the desired goal if a dead end is encountered. The safety and performance of the proposed planning system is evaluated at speeds up to 10m/s, and the approach is tested in a set of large-scale, complex simulation environments containing dead ends. These scenarios lead to failure cases for competing methods; however, the proposed approach enables the robot to safely reroute and reach the desired goal.


Title: Iterator-Based Temporal Logic Task Planning
Abstract: Temporal logic task planning for robotic systems suffers from state explosion when specifications involve large numbers of discrete locations. We provide a novel approach, particularly suited for task specifications with universally quantified locations, that has constant time with respect to the number of locations, enabling synthesis of plans for an arbitrary number of them. We propose a hybrid control framework that uses an iterator to manage the discretised workspace hiding it from a plan enacted by a discrete event controller. A downside of our approach is that it incurs in increased overhead when executing a synthesised plan. We demonstrate that the overhead is reasonable for missions of a fixed-wing Unmanned Aerial Vehicle in simulated and real scenarios for up to 700000 locations.


Title: Reactive Temporal Logic Planning for Multiple Robots in Unknown Environments
Abstract: This paper proposes a new reactive mission planning algorithm for multiple robots that operate in unknown environments. The robots are equipped with individual sensors that allow them to collectively learn and continuously update a map of the unknown environment. The goal of the robots is to accomplish complex tasks, captured by global co-safe Linear Temporal Logic (LTL) formulas. The majority of existing temporal logic planning approaches rely on discrete abstractions of the robot dynamics operating in known environments and, as a result, they cannot be applied to the more realistic scenarios where the environment is initially unknown. In this paper, we address this novel challenge by proposing the first reactive, and abstraction-free LTL planning algorithm that can be applied for complex mission planning of multiple robots operating in unknown environments. Our algorithm is reactive in the sense that temporal logic planning is adapting to the updated map of the environment and abstraction-free as it does not rely on designing abstractions of robot dynamics. Our proposed algorithm is complete under mild assumptions on the structure of the environment and the sensor models. Our paper provides extensive numerical simulations and hardware experiments that illustrate the theoretical analysis and show that the proposed algorithm can address complex planning tasks in unknown environments.


Title: Higher Order Function Networks for View Planning and Multi-View Reconstruction
Abstract: We consider the problem of planning views for a robot to acquire images of an object for visual inspection and reconstruction. In contrast to offline methods which require a 3D model of the object as input or online methods which rely on only local measurements, our method uses a neural network which encodes shape information for a large number of objects. We build on recent deep learning methods capable of generating a complete 3D reconstruction of an object from a single image. Specifically, in this work, we extend a recent method which uses Higher Order Functions (HOF) to represent the shape of the object. We present a new generalization of this method to incorporate multiple images as input and establish a connection between visibility and reconstruction quality. This relationship forms the foundation of our view planning method where we compute viewpoints to visually cover the output of the multiview HOF network with as few images as possible. Experiments indicate that our method provides a good compromise between online and offline methods: Similar to online methods, our method does not require the true object model as input. In terms of number of views, it is much more efficient. In most cases, its performance is comparable to the optimal offline case even on object classes the network has not been trained on.


