total paper: 44
Title: Dex-Net AR: Distributed Deep Grasp Planning Using a Commodity Cellphone and Augmented Reality App
Abstract: Consumer demand for augmented reality (AR) in mobile phone applications, such as the Apple ARKit. Such applications have potential to expand access to robot grasp planning systems such as Dex-Net. AR apps use structure from motion methods to compute a point cloud from a sequence of RGB images taken by the camera as it is moved around an object. However, the resulting point clouds are often noisy due to estimation errors. We present a distributed pipeline, Dex-Net AR, that allows point clouds to be uploaded to a server in our lab, cleaned, and evaluated by Dex-Net grasp planner to generate a grasp axis that is returned and displayed as an overlay on the object. We implement Dex-Net AR using the iPhone and ARKit and compare results with those generated with high-performance depth sensors. The success rates with AR on harder adversarial objects are higher than traditional depth images. The server URL is https://sites.google.com/berkeley.edu/dex-net-ar/home.


Title: Navigation in the Presence of Obstacles for an Agile Autonomous Underwater Vehicle
Abstract: Navigation underwater traditionally is done by keeping a safe distance from obstacles, resulting in "fly-overs" of the area of interest. Movement of an autonomous underwater vehicle (AUV) through a cluttered space, such as a shipwreck or a decorated cave, is an extremely challenging problem that has not been addressed in the past. This paper proposes a novel navigation framework utilizing an enhanced version of Trajopt for fast 3D path-optimization planning for AUVs. A sampling-based correction procedure ensures that the planning is not constrained by local minima, enabling navigation through narrow spaces. Two different modalities are proposed: planning with a known map results in efficient trajectories through cluttered spaces; operating in an unknown environment utilizes the point cloud from the visual features detected to navigate efficiently while avoiding the detected obstacles. The proposed approach is rigorously tested, both on simulation and in-pool experiments, proven to be fast enough to enable safe real-time 3D autonomous navigation for an AUV.


Title: Hand Pose Estimation for Hand-Object Interaction Cases using Augmented Autoencoder
Abstract: Hand pose estimation with objects is challenging due to object occlusion and the lack of large annotated datasets. To tackle these issues, we propose an Augmented Autoencoder based deep learning method using augmented clean hand data. Our method takes 3D point cloud of a hand with an augmented object as input and encodes the input to latent representation of the hand. From the latent representation, our method decodes 3D hand pose and we propose to use an auxiliary point cloud decoder to assist the formation of the latent space. Through quantitative and qualitative evaluation on both synthetic dataset and real captured data containing objects, we demonstrate state-of-the-art performance for hand pose estimation with objects, even using only a small number of annotated hand-object samples.


Title: PointAtrousGraph: Deep Hierarchical Encoder-Decoder with Point Atrous Convolution for Unorganized 3D Points
Abstract: Motivated by the success of encoding multi-scale contextual information for image analysis, we propose our PointAtrousGraph (PAG) - a deep permutation-invariant hierarchical encoder-decoder for efficiently exploiting multi-scale edge features in point clouds. Our PAG is constructed by several novel modules, such as Point Atrous Convolution (PAC), Edgepreserved Pooling (EP) and Edge-preserved Unpooling (EU). Similar with atrous convolution, our PAC can effectively enlarge receptive fields of filters and thus densely learn multi-scale point features. Following the idea of non-overlapping maxpooling operations, we propose our EP to preserve critical edge features during subsampling. Correspondingly, our EU modules gradually recover spatial information for edge features. In addition, we introduce chained skip subsampling/upsampling modules that directly propagate edge features to the final stage. Particularly, our proposed auxiliary loss functions can further improve our performance. Experimental results show that our PAG outperform previous state-of-the-art methods on various 3D semantic perception applications.


Title: A 3D-Deep-Learning-based Augmented Reality Calibration Method for Robotic Environments using Depth Sensor Data
Abstract: Augmented Reality and mobile robots are gaining increased attention within industries due to the high potential to make processes cost and time efficient. To facilitate augmented reality, a calibration between the Augmented Reality device and the environment is necessary. This is a challenge when dealing with mobile robots due to the mobility of all entities making the environment dynamic. On this account, we propose a novel approach to calibrate Augmented Reality devices using 3D depth sensor data. We use the depth camera of a Head Mounted Augmented Reality Device, the Microsoft Hololens, for deep learning-based calibration. Therefore, we modified a neural network based on the recently published VoteNet architecture which works directly on raw point cloud input observed by the Hololens. We achieve satisfying results and eliminate external tools like markers, thus enabling a more intuitive and flexible work flow for Augmented Reality integration. The results are adaptable to work with all depth cameras and are promising for further research. Furthermore, we introduce an open source 3D point cloud labeling tool, which is to our knowledge the first open source tool for labeling raw point cloud data.


Title: Real-Time UAV Path Planning for Autonomous Urban Scene Reconstruction
Abstract: Unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs) are frequently used for large-scale scene mapping and reconstruction. However, in most cases, drones are operated manually, which should be more effective and intelligent. In this article, we present a method of real-time UAV path planning for autonomous urban scene reconstruction. Considering the obstacles and time costs, we utilize the top view to generate the initial path. Then we estimate the building heights and take close-up pictures that reveal building details through a SLAM framework. To predict the coverage of the scene, we propose a novel method which combines information on reconstructed point clouds and possible coverage areas. The experimental results reveal that the reconstruction quality of our method is good enough. Our method is also more time-saving than the state-of-the-arts.


Title: Enhancing Grasp Pose Computation in Gripper Workspace Spheres
Abstract: In this paper, enhancement to the novel grasp planning algorithm based on gripper workspace spheres is presented. Our development requires a registered point cloud of the target from different views, assuming no prior knowledge of the object, nor any of its properties. This work features a new set of metrics for grasp pose candidates evaluation, as well as exploring the impact of high object sampling on grasp success rates. In addition to gripper position sampling, we now perform orientation sampling about the x, y, and z-axes, hence the grasping algorithm no longer require object orientation estimation. Successful experiments have been conducted on a simple jaw gripper (Franka Panda gripper) as well as a complex, high Degree of Freedom (DoF) hand (Allegro hand) as a proof of its versatility. Higher grasp success rates of 76% and 85.5% respectively has been reported by real world experiments.


Title: Hierarchical 6-DoF Grasping with Approaching Direction Selection
Abstract: In this paper, we tackle the problem of 6-DoF grasp detection which is crucial for robot grasping in cluttered real-world scenes. Unlike existing approaches which synthesize 6-DoF grasp data sets and train grasp quality networks with input grasp representations based on point clouds, we rather take a novel hierarchical approach which does not use any 6-DoF grasp data. We cast the 6-DoF grasp detection problem as a robot arm approaching direction selection problem using the existing 4-DoF grasp detection algorithm, by exploiting a fully convolutional grasp quality network for evaluating the quality of an approaching direction. To select the best approaching direction with the highest grasp quality, we propose an approaching direction selection method which leverages a geometry-based prior and a derivative-free optimization method. Specifically, we optimize the direction iteratively using the cross entropy method with initial samples of surface normal directions. Our algorithm efficiently finds diverse 6-DoF grasps by the novel way of evaluating and optimizing approaching directions. We validate that the proposed method outperforms other selection methods in scenarios with cluttered objects in a physics-based simulator. Finally, we show that our method outperforms the state-of-the-art grasp detection method in real-world experiments with robots.


Title: High Resolution Soft Tactile Interface for Physical Human-Robot Interaction
Abstract: If robots and humans are to coexist and cooperate in society, it would be useful for robots to be able to engage in tactile interactions. Touch is an intuitive communication tool as well as a fundamental method by which we assist each other physically. Tactile abilities are challenging to engineer in robots, since both mechanical safety and sensory intelligence are imperative. Existing work reveals a trade-off between these principles- tactile interfaces that are high in resolution are not easily adapted to human-sized geometries, nor are they generally compliant enough to guarantee safety. On the other hand, soft tactile interfaces deliver intrinsically safe mechanical properties, but their non-linear characteristics render them difficult for use in timely sensing and control. We propose a robotic system that is equipped with a completely soft and therefore safe tactile interface that is large enough to interact with human upper limbs, while producing high resolution tactile sensory readings via depth camera imaging of the soft interface. We present and validate a data-driven model that maps point cloud data to contact forces, and verify its efficacy by demonstrating two real-world applications. In particular, the robot is able to react to a human finger's pokes and change its pose based on the tactile input. In addition, we also demonstrate that the robot can act as an assistive device that dynamically supports and follows a human forearm from underneath.


Title: SegVoxelNet: Exploring Semantic Context and Depth-aware Features for 3D Vehicle Detection from Point Cloud
Abstract: 3D vehicle detection based on point cloud is a challenging task in real-world applications such as autonomous driving. Despite significant progress has been made, we observe two aspects to be further improved. First, the semantic context information in LiDAR is seldom explored in previous works, which may help identify ambiguous vehicles. Second, the distribution of point cloud on vehicles varies continuously with increasing depths, which may not be well modeled by a single model. In this work, we propose a unified model SegVoxelNet to address the above two problems. A semantic context encoder is proposed to leverage the free-of-charge semantic segmentation masks in the bird's eye view. Suspicious regions could be highlighted while noisy regions are suppressed by this module. To better deal with vehicles at different depths, a novel depth-aware head is designed to explicitly model the distribution differences and each part of the depth-aware head is made to focus on its own target detection range. Extensive experiments on the KITTI dataset show that the proposed method outperforms the state-of-the-art alternatives in both accuracy and efficiency with point cloud as input only.


Title: UrbanLoco: A Full Sensor Suite Dataset for Mapping and Localization in Urban Scenes
Abstract: Mapping and localization is a critical module of autonomous driving, and significant achievements have been reached in this field. Beyond Global Navigation Satellite System (GNSS), research in point cloud registration, visual feature matching, and inertia navigation has greatly enhanced the accuracy and robustness of mapping and localization in different scenarios. However, highly urbanized scenes are still challenging: LIDAR- and camera-based methods perform poorly with numerous dynamic objects; the GNSS-based solutions experience signal loss and multi-path problems; the inertia measurement units (IMU) suffer from drifting. Unfortunately, current public datasets either do not adequately address this urban challenge or do not provide enough sensor information related to map-ping and localization. Here we present UrbanLoco: a mapping/localization dataset collected in highly-urbanized environments with a full sensor-suite. The dataset includes 13 trajectories collected in San Francisco and Hong Kong, covering a total length of over 40 kilometers. Our dataset includes a wide variety of urban terrains: urban canyons, bridges, tunnels, sharp turns, etc. More importantly, our dataset includes information from LIDAR, cameras, IMU, and GNSS receivers. Now the dataset is publicly available through the link in the footnote 1.


Title: Human-robot interaction for robotic manipulator programming in Mixed Reality
Abstract: The paper presents an approach for interactive programming of the robotic manipulator using mixed reality. The developed system is based on the HoloLens glasses connected through Robotic Operation System to Unity engine and robotic manipulators. The system gives a possibility to recognize the real robot location by the point cloud analysis, to use virtual markers and menus for the task creation, to generate a trajectory for execution in the simulator or on the real manipulator. It also provides the possibility of scaling virtual and real worlds for more accurate planning. The proposed framework has been tested on pick-and-place and contact operations execution by UR10e and KUKA iiwa robots.


Title: Spatio-Temporal Non-Rigid Registration of 3D Point Clouds of Plants
Abstract: Analyzing sensor data of plants and monitoring plant performance is a central element in different agricultural robotics applications. In plant science, phenotyping refers to analyzing plant traits for monitoring growth, for describing plant properties, or characterizing the plant's overall performance. It plays a critical role in the agricultural tasks and in plant breeding. Recently, there is a rising interest in using 3D data obtained from laser scanners and 3D cameras to develop automated non-intrusive techniques for estimating plant traits. In this paper, we address the problem of registering 3D point clouds of the plants over time, which is a backbone of applications interested in tracking spatio-temporal traits of individual plants. Registering plants over time is challenging due to its changing topology, anisotropic growth, and non-rigid motion in between scans. We propose a novel approach that exploits the skeletal structure of the plant and determines correspondences over time and drives the registration process. Our approach explicitly accounts for the non-rigidity and the growth of the plant over time in the registration. We tested our approach on a challenging dataset acquired over the course of two weeks and successfully registered the 3D plant point clouds recorded with a laser scanner forming a basis for developing systems for automated temporal plant-trait analysis.


Title: ROI-cloud: A Key Region Extraction Method for LiDAR Odometry and Localization
Abstract: We present a novel key region extraction method of point cloud, ROI-cloud, for LiDAR odometry and localization with autonomous robots. Traditional methods process massive point cloud data in every region within the field of view. In dense urban environments, however, processing redundant and dynamic regions of point cloud is time-consuming and harmful to the results of matching algorithms. In this paper, a voxelized cube set, ROI-cloud, is proposed to solve this problem by exclusively reserving the regions of interest for better point set registration and pose estimation. 3D space is firstly voxelized into weighted cubes. The key idea is to update their weights continually and extract cubes with high importance as key regions. By extracting geometrical features of a LiDAR scan, the importance of each cube is evaluated as a new measurement. With the help of on-board IMU/odometry data as well as new measurements, the weights of cubes are updated recursively through Bayes filtering. Thus, dynamic and redundant point cloud inside cubes with low importance are discarded by means of Monte Carlo sampling. Our method is validated on various datasets, and results indicate that the ROI-cloud improves the existing method in both accuracy and speed.


Title: PointNet++ Grasping: Learning An End-to-end Spatial Grasp Generation Algorithm from Sparse Point Clouds
Abstract: Grasping for novel objects is important for robot manipulation in unstructured environments. Most of current works require a grasp sampling process to obtain grasp candidates, combined with local feature extractor using deep learning. This pipeline is time-costly, expecially when grasp points are sparse such as at the edge of a bowl.In this paper, we propose an end-to-end approach to directly predict the poses, categories and scores (qualities) of all the grasps. It takes the whole sparse point clouds as the input and requires no sampling or search process. Moreover, to generate training data of multi-object scene, we propose a fast multi-object grasp detection algorithm based on Ferrari Canny metrics. A single-object dataset (79 objects from YCB object set, 23.7k grasps) and a multi-object dataset (20k point clouds with annotations and masks) are generated. A PointNet++ based network combined with multi-mask loss is introduced to deal with different training points. The whole weight size of our network is only about 11.6M, which takes about 102ms for a whole prediction process using a GeForce 840M GPU. Our experiment shows our work get 71.43% success rate and 91.60% completion rate, which performs better than current state-of-art works.


Title: 6D Object Pose Regression via Supervised Learning on Point Clouds
Abstract: This paper addresses the task of estimating the 6 degrees of freedom pose of a known 3D object from depth information represented by a point cloud. Deep features learned by convolutional neural networks from color information have been the dominant features to be used for inferring object poses, while depth information receives much less attention. However, depth information contains rich geometric information of the object shape, which is important for inferring the object pose. We use depth information represented by point clouds as the input to both deep networks and geometry-based pose refinement and use separate networks for rotation and translation regression. We argue that the axis-angle representation is a suitable rotation representation for deep learning, and use a geodesic loss function for rotation regression. Ablation studies show that these design choices outperform alternatives such as the quaternion representation and L2 loss, or regressing translation and rotation with the same network. Our simple yet effective approach clearly outperforms state-of-the-art methods on the YCB-video dataset.


Title: Online LiDAR-SLAM for Legged Robots with Robust Registration and Deep-Learned Loop Closure
Abstract: In this paper, we present a 3D factor-graph LiDAR-SLAM system which incorporates a state-of-the-art deeply learned feature-based loop closure detector to enable a legged robot to localize and map in industrial environments. Point clouds are accumulated using an inertial-kinematic state estimator before being aligned using ICP registration. To close loops we use a loop proposal mechanism which matches individual segments between clouds. We trained a descriptor offline to match these segments. The efficiency of our method comes from carefully designing the network architecture to minimize the number of parameters such that this deep learning method can be deployed in real-time using only the CPU of a legged robot, a major contribution of this work. The set of odometry and loop closure factors are updated using pose graph optimization. Finally we present an efficient risk alignment prediction method which verifies the reliability of the registrations. Experimental results at an industrial facility demonstrated the robustness and flexibility of our system, including autonomous following paths derived from the SLAM map.


Title: Fog Robotics Algorithms for Distributed Motion Planning Using Lambda Serverless Computing
Abstract: For robots using motion planning algorithms such as RRT and RRT*, the computational load can vary by orders of magnitude as the complexity of the local environment changes. To adaptively provide such computation, we propose Fog Robotics algorithms in which cloud-based serverless lambda computing provides parallel computation on demand. To use this parallelism, we propose novel motion planning algorithms that scale effectively with an increasing number of serverless computers. However, given that the allocation of computing is typically bounded by both monetary and time constraints, we show how prior learning can be used to efficiently allocate resources at runtime. We demonstrate the algorithms and application of learned parallel allocation in both simulation and with the Fetch commercial mobile manipulator using Amazon Lambda to complete a sequence of sporadically computationally intensive motion planning tasks.


Title: DeepSemanticHPPC: Hypothesis-based Planning over Uncertain Semantic Point Clouds
Abstract: Planning in unstructured environments is challenging - it relies on sensing, perception, scene reconstruction, and reasoning about various uncertainties. We propose DeepSemanticHPPC, a novel uncertainty-aware hypothesis-based planner for unstructured environments. Our algorithmic pipeline consists of: a deep Bayesian neural network which segments surfaces with uncertainty estimates; a flexible point cloud scene representation; a next-best-view planner which minimizes the uncertainty of scene semantics using sparse visual measurements; and a hypothesis-based path planner that proposes multiple kinematically feasible paths with evolving safety confidences given next-best-view measurements. Our pipeline iteratively decreases semantic uncertainty along planned paths, filtering out unsafe paths with high confidence. We show that our framework plans safe paths in real-world environments where existing path planners typically fail.


Title: Global visual localization in LiDAR-maps through shared 2D-3D embedding space
Abstract: Global localization is an important and widely studied problem for many robotic applications. Place recognition approaches can be exploited to solve this task, e.g., in the autonomous driving field. While most vision-based approaches match an image w.r.t. an image database, global visual localization within LiDAR-maps remains fairly unexplored, even though the path toward high definition 3D maps, produced mainly from LiDARs, is clear. In this work we leverage Deep Neural Network (DNN) approaches to create a shared embedding space between images and LiDAR-maps, allowing for image to 3D-LiDAR place recognition. We trained a 2D and a 3D DNN that create embeddings, respectively from images and from point clouds, that are close to each other whether they refer to the same place. An extensive experimental activity is presented to assess the effectiveness of the approach w.r.t. different learning paradigms, network architectures, and loss functions. All the evaluations have been performed using the Oxford Robotcar Dataset, which encompasses a wide range of weather and light conditions.


Title: LOL: Lidar-only Odometry and Localization in 3D point cloud maps*
Abstract: In this paper we deal with the problem of odometry and localization for Lidar-equipped vehicles driving in urban environments, where a premade target map exists to localize against. In our problem formulation, to correct the accumulated drift of the Lidar-only odometry we apply a place recognition method to detect geometrically similar locations between the online 3D point cloud and the a priori offline map. In the proposed system, we integrate a state-of-the-art Lidaronly odometry algorithm with a recently proposed 3D point segment matching method by complementing their advantages. Also, we propose additional enhancements in order to reduce the number of false matches between the online point cloud and the target map, and to refine the position estimation error whenever a good match is detected. We demonstrate the utility of the proposed LOL system on several Kitti datasets of different lengths and environments, where the relocalization accuracy and the precision of the vehicle's trajectory were significantly improved in every case, while still being able to maintain real-time performance.


Title: Learning Precise 3D Manipulation from Multiple Uncalibrated Cameras
Abstract: In this work, we present an effective multi-view approach to closed-loop end-to-end learning of precise manipulation tasks that are 3D in nature. Our method learns to accomplish these tasks using multiple statically placed but uncalibrated RGB camera views without building an explicit 3D representation such as a pointcloud or voxel grid. This multi-camera approach achieves superior task performance on difficult stacking and insertion tasks compared to single-view baselines. Single view robotic agents struggle from occlusion and challenges in estimating relative poses between points of interest. While full 3D scene representations (voxels or pointclouds) are obtainable from registered output of multiple depth sensors, several challenges complicate operating off such explicit 3D representations. These challenges include imperfect camera calibration, poor depth maps due to object properties such as reflective surfaces, and slower inference speeds over 3D representations compared to 2D images. Our use of static but uncalibrated cameras does not require camera-robot or camera-camera calibration making the proposed approach easy to setup and our use of sensor dropout during training makes it resilient to the loss of camera-views after deployment.


Title: Push and Drag: An Active Obstacle Separation Method for Fruit Harvesting Robots
Abstract: Selectively picking a target fruit surrounded by obstacles is one of the major challenges for fruit harvesting robots. Different from traditional obstacle avoidance methods, this paper presents an active obstacle separation strategy that combines push and drag motions. The separation motion and trajectory are generated based on the 3D visual perception of the obstacle information around the target. A linear push is used to clear the obstacles from the area below the target, while a zig-zag push that contains several linear motions is proposed to push aside more dense obstacles. The zig-zag push can generate multi-directional pushes and the side-to-side motion can break the static contact force between the target and obstacles, thus helping the gripper to receive a target in more complex situations. Moreover, we propose a novel drag operation to address the issue of mis-capturing obstacles located above the target, in which the gripper drags the target to a place with fewer obstacles and then pushes back to move the obstacles aside for further detachment. Furthermore, an image processing pipeline consisting of color thresholding, object detection using deep learning and point cloud operation, is developed to implement the proposed method on a harvesting robot. Field tests show that the proposed method can improve the picking performance substantially. This method helps to enable complex clusters of fruits to be harvested with a higher success rate than conventional methods.


Title: OneShot Global Localization: Instant LiDAR-Visual Pose Estimation
Abstract: Globally localizing in a given map is a crucial ability for robots to perform a wide range of autonomous navigation tasks. This paper presents OneShot - a global localization algorithm that uses only a single 3D LiDAR scan at a time, while outperforming approaches based on integrating a sequence of point clouds. Our approach, which does not require the robot to move, relies on learning-based descriptors of point cloud segments and computes the full 6 degree-of-freedom pose in a map. The segments are extracted from the current LiDAR scan and are matched against a database using the computed descriptors. Candidate matches are then verified with a geometric consistency test. We additionally present a strategy to further improve the performance of the segment descriptors by augmenting them with visual information provided by a camera. For this purpose, a custom-tailored neural network architecture is proposed. We demonstrate that our LiDAR-only approach outperforms a state-of-the-art baseline on a sequence of the KITTI dataset and also evaluate its performance on the challenging NCLT dataset. Finally, we show that fusing in visual information boosts segment retrieval rates by up to 26% compared to LiDAR-only description.


Title: Analytic Plane Covariances Construction for Precise Planarity-based Extrinsic Calibration of Camera and LiDAR
Abstract: Planarity of checkerboards is a widely used feature for extrinsic calibration of camera and LiDAR. In this study, we propose two analytically derived covariances of (i) plane parameters and (ii) plane measurement, for precise extrinsic calibration of camera and LiDAR. These covariances allow the graded approach in planar feature correspondences by exploiting the uncertainty of a set of given features in calibration. To construct plane parameter covariance, we employ the error model of 3D corner points and the analytically formulated plane parameter errors. Next, plane measurement covariance is directly derived from planar regions of point clouds using the out-of-plane errors. In simulation validation, our method is compared to an existing uncertainty-excluding method using the different number of target poses and the different levels of noise. In field experiment, we validated the applicability of the proposed analytic plane covariances for precise calibration using the basic planarity-based method and the latest planarity-and-linearity-based method.


Title: In-Hand Object Pose Tracking via Contact Feedback and GPU-Accelerated Robotic Simulation
Abstract: Tracking the pose of an object while it is being held and manipulated by a robot hand is difficult for vision-based methods due to significant occlusions. Prior works have explored using contact feedback and particle filters to localize in-hand objects. However, they have mostly focused on the static grasp setting and not when the object is in motion, as doing so requires modeling of complex contact dynamics. In this work, we propose using GPU-accelerated parallel robot simulations and derivative-free, sample-based optimizers to track in-hand object poses with contact feedback during manipulation. We use physics simulation as the forward model for robot-object interactions, and the algorithm jointly optimizes for the state and the parameters of the simulations, so they better match with those of the real world. Our method runs in real-time (30Hz) on a single GPU, and it achieves an average point cloud distance error of 6mm in simulation experiments and 13mm in the real-world ones.


Title: Robust, Occlusion-aware Pose Estimation for Objects Grasped by Adaptive Hands
Abstract: Many manipulation tasks, such as placement or within-hand manipulation, require the object's pose relative to a robot hand. The task is difficult when the hand significantly occludes the object. It is especially hard for adaptive hands, for which it is not easy to detect the finger's configuration. In addition, RGB-only approaches face issues with texture-less objects or when the hand and the object look similar. This paper presents a depth-based framework, which aims for robust pose estimation and short response times. The approach detects the adaptive hand's state via efficient parallel search given the highest overlap between the hand's model and the point cloud. The hand's point cloud is pruned and robust global registration is performed to generate object pose hypotheses, which are clustered. False hypotheses are pruned via physical reasoning. The remaining poses' quality is evaluated given agreement with observed data. Extensive evaluation on synthetic and real data demonstrates the accuracy and computational efficiency of the framework when applied on challenging, highly-occluded scenarios for different object types. An ablation study identifies how the framework's components help in performance. This work also provides a dataset for in-hand 6D object pose estimation. Code and dataset are available at: https://github.com/wenbowen123/icra20-hand-object-pose.


Title: 6-DOF Grasping for Target-driven Object Manipulation in Clutter
Abstract: Grasping in cluttered environments is a fundamental but challenging robotic skill. It requires both reasoning about unseen object parts and potential collisions with the manipulator. Most existing data-driven approaches avoid this problem by limiting themselves to top-down planar grasps which is insufficient for many real-world scenarios and greatly limits possible grasps. We present a method that plans 6-DOF grasps for any desired object in a cluttered scene from partial point cloud observations. Our method achieves a grasp success of 80.3%, outperforming baseline approaches by 17.6% and clearing 9 cluttered table scenes (which contain 23 unknown objects and 51 picks in total) on a real robotic platform. By using our learned collision checking module, we can even reason about effective grasp sequences to retrieve objects that are not immediately accessible. Supplementary video can be found here.


Title: Deep Depth Fusion for Black, Transparent, Reflective and Texture-Less Objects
Abstract: Structured-light and stereo cameras, which are widely used to construct point clouds for robotic applications, have different limitations on estimating depth values. Structured-light cameras fail in black, transparent, and reflective objects, which influence the light path; stereo cameras fail in texture-less objects. In this work, we propose a depth fusion model that complements these two types of methods to generate high-quality point clouds for short-range robotic applications. The model first determines the fusion weights from the two input depth images and then refines the fused depth using color features. We construct a dataset containing the aforementioned challenging objects and report the performance of our proposed model. The results reveal that our method reduces the average L1 distance on depth prediction by 75% and 52% compared with the original depth output of the structured-light camera and the stereo model, respectively. A noticeable improvement on the Iterative Closest Point (ICP) algorithm can be achieved by using the refined depth images output from our method.


Title: 3DCFS: Fast and Robust Joint 3D Semantic-Instance Segmentation via Coupled Feature Selection
Abstract: We propose a novel fast and robust 3D point clouds segmentation framework via coupled feature selection, named 3DCFS, that jointly performs semantic and instance segmentation. Inspired by the human scene perception process, we design a novel coupled feature selection module, named CFSM, that adaptively selects and fuses the reciprocal semantic and instance features from two tasks in a coupled manner. To further boost the performance of the instance segmentation task in our 3DCFS, we investigate a loss function that helps the model learn to balance the magnitudes of the output embedding dimensions during training, which makes calculating the Euclidean distance more reliable and enhances the generalizability of the model. Extensive experiments demonstrate that our 3DCFS outperforms state-of-the-art methods on benchmark datasets in terms of accuracy, speed and computational cost. Codes are available at: https://github.com/Biotan/3DCFS.


Title: KETO: Learning Keypoint Representations for Tool Manipulation
Abstract: We aim to develop an algorithm for robots to manipulate novel objects as tools for completing different task goals. An efficient and informative representation would facilitate the effectiveness and generalization of such algorithms. For this purpose, we present KETO, a framework of learning keypoint representations of tool-based manipulation. For each task, a set of task-specific keypoints is jointly predicted from 3D point clouds of the tool object by a deep neural network. These keypoints offer a concise and informative description of the object to determine grasps and subsequent manipulation actions. The model is learned from self-supervised robot interactions in the task environment without the need for explicit human annotations. We evaluate our framework in three manipulation tasks with tool use. Our model consistently outperforms state-of-the-art methods in terms of task success rates. Qualitative results of keypoint prediction and tool generation are shown to visualize the learned representations.


Title: FlowFusion: Dynamic Dense RGB-D SLAM Based on Optical Flow
Abstract: Dynamic environments are challenging for visual SLAM since the moving objects occlude the static environment features and lead to wrong camera motion estimation. In this paper, we present a novel dense RGB-D SLAM solution that simultaneously accomplishes the dynamic/static segmentation and camera ego-motion estimation as well as the static background reconstructions. Our novelty is using optical flow residuals to highlight the dynamic semantics in the RGB-D point clouds and provide more accurate and efficient dynamic/static segmentation for camera tracking and background reconstruction. The dense reconstruction results on public datasets and real dynamic scenes indicate that the proposed approach achieved accurate and efficient performances in both dynamic and static environments compared to state-of-the-art approaches.


Title: Highly Parallelizable Plane Extraction for Organized Point Clouds Using Spherical Convex Hulls
Abstract: We present a novel region growing algorithm for plane extraction of organized point clouds using the spherical convex hull. Instead of explicit plane parameterization, our approach interprets potential underlying planes as a series of geometric constraints on the sphere that are refined during region growing. Unlike existing schemes relying on downsampling for sequential execution in real time, our approach enables pixelwise plane extraction that is highly parallelizable. We further test the proposed approach with a fully parallel implementation on a GPU. Evaluation based on public data sets has shown state-of-the-art extraction accuracy and superior speed compared to existing approaches, while guaranteeing real-time processing at full input resolution of a typical RGB-D camera.


Title: Object-Centric Stereo Matching for 3D Object Detection
Abstract: Safe autonomous driving requires reliable 3D object detection-determining the 6 DoF pose and dimensions of objects of interest. Using stereo cameras to solve this task is a cost-effective alternative to the widely used LiDAR sensor. The current state-of-the-art for stereo 3D object detection takes the existing PSMNet stereo matching network, with no modifications, and converts the estimated disparities into a 3D point cloud, and feeds this point cloud into a LiDAR-based 3D object detector. The issue with existing stereo matching networks is that they are designed for disparity estimation, not 3D object detection; the shape and accuracy of object point clouds are not the focus. Stereo matching networks commonly suffer from inaccurate depth estimates at object boundaries, which we define as streaking, because background and foreground points are jointly estimated. Existing networks also penalize disparity instead of the estimated position of object point clouds in their loss functions. We propose a novel 2D box association and object-centric stereo matching method that only estimates the disparities of the objects of interest to address these two issues. Our method achieves state-of-the-art results on the KITTI 3D and BEV benchmarks.


Title: Automatic LiDAR-Camera Calibration of Extrinsic Parameters Using a Spherical Target
Abstract: This paper investigates a novel calibration process of devices with different modalities, which is a critical step of computer vision applications. We propose a fully automatic extrinsic calibration of a LiDAR-camera system. Our approach applies sphere as their surfaces and contours can be accurately detected on point clouds and camera images, respectively. Experiments on synthetic and real data exhibit that our automatic algorithm is fast and robust and it yields accurate camera and LiDAR extrinsic parameters.


Title: Estimating Motion Uncertainty with Bayesian ICP
Abstract: Accurate uncertainty estimation associated with the pose transformation between two 3D point clouds is critical for autonomous navigation, grasping, and data fusion. Iterative closest point (ICP) is widely used to estimate the transformation between point cloud pairs by iteratively performing data association and motion estimation. Despite its success and popularity, ICP is effectively a deterministic algorithm, and attempts to reformulate it in a probabilistic manner generally do not capture all sources of uncertainty, such as data association errors and sensor noise. This leads to overconfident transformation estimates, potentially compromising the robustness of systems relying on them. In this paper we propose a novel method to estimate pose uncertainty in ICP with a Markov Chain Monte Carlo (MCMC) algorithm. Our method combines recent developments in optimization for scalable Bayesian sampling such as stochastic gradient Langevin dynamics (SGLD) to infer a full posterior distribution of the pose transformation between two point clouds. We evaluate our method, called Bayesian ICP, in experiments using 3D Kinect data demonstrating that our method is capable of both quickly and accuractely estimating pose uncertainty, taking into account data association uncertainty as reflected by the shape of the objects.


Title: Instance Segmentation of LiDAR Point Clouds
Abstract: We propose a robust baseline method for instance segmentation which are specially designed for large-scale outdoor LiDAR point clouds. Our method includes a novel dense feature encoding technique, allowing the localization and segmentation of small, far-away objects, a simple but effective solution for single-shot instance prediction and effective strategies for handling severe class imbalances. Since there is no public dataset for the study of LiDAR instance segmentation, we also build a new publicly available LiDAR point cloud dataset to include both precise 3D bounding box and point-wise labels for instance segmentation, while still being about 3~20 times as large as other existing LiDAR datasets. The dataset will be published at https://github.com/feihuzhang/LiDARSeg.


Title: Dilated Point Convolutions: On the Receptive Field Size of Point Convolutions on 3D Point Clouds
Abstract: In this work, we propose Dilated Point Convolutions (DPC). In a thorough ablation study, we show that the receptive field size is directly related to the performance of 3D point cloud processing tasks, including semantic segmentation and object classification. Point convolutions are widely used to efficiently process 3D data representations such as point clouds or graphs. However, we observe that the receptive field size of recent point convolutional networks is inherently limited. Our dilated point convolutions alleviate this issue, they significantly increase the receptive field size of point convolutions. Importantly, our dilation mechanism can easily be integrated into most existing point convolutional networks. To evaluate the resulting network architectures, we visualize the receptive field and report competitive scores on popular point cloud benchmarks.


Title: Any Motion Detector: Learning Class-agnostic Scene Dynamics from a Sequence of LiDAR Point Clouds
Abstract: Object detection and motion parameters estimation are crucial tasks for self-driving vehicle safe navigation in a complex urban environment. In this work we propose a novel real-time approach of temporal context aggregation for motion detection and motion parameters estimation based on 3D point cloud sequence. We introduce an ego-motion compensation layer to achieve real-time inference with performance comparable to a naive odometric transform of the original point cloud sequence. Not only is the proposed architecture capable of estimating the motion of common road participants like vehicles or pedestrians but also generalizes to other object categories which are not present in training data. We also conduct an in-deep analysis of different temporal context aggregation strategies such as recurrent cells and 3D convolutions. Finally, we provide comparison results of our state-of-the-art model with existing solutions on KITTI Scene Flow dataset.


Title: Map Management Approach for SLAM in Large-Scale Indoor and Outdoor Areas
Abstract: This work presents a semantic map management approach for various environments by triggering multiple maps with different simultaneous localization and mapping (SLAM) configurations. A modular map structure allows to add, modify or delete maps without influencing other maps of different areas. The hierarchy level of our algorithm is above the utilized SLAM method. Evaluating laser scan data (e.g. the detection of passing a doorway) triggers a new map, automatically choosing the appropriate SLAM configuration from a manually predefined list. Single independent maps are connected by link-points, which are located in an overlapping zone of both maps, enabling global navigation over several maps. Loop- closures between maps are detected by an appearance-based method, using feature matching and iterative closest point (ICP) registration between point clouds. Based on the arrangement of maps and link-points, a topological graph is extracted for navigation purpose and tracking the global robot's position over several maps. Our approach is evaluated by mapping a university campus with multiple indoor and outdoor areas and abstracting a metrical-topological graph. It is compared to a single map running with different SLAM configurations. Our approach enhances the overall map quality compared to the single map approaches by automatically choosing predefined SLAM configurations for different environmental setups.


Title: A Hierarchical Framework for Collaborative Probabilistic Semantic Mapping
Abstract: Performing collaborative semantic mapping is a critical challenge for cooperative robots to maintain a comprehensive contextual understanding of the surroundings. Most of the existing work either focus on single robot semantic mapping or collaborative geometry mapping. In this paper, a novel hierarchical collaborative probabilistic semantic mapping framework is proposed, where the problem is formulated in a distributed setting. The key novelty of this work is the mathematical modeling of the overall collaborative semantic mapping problem and the derivation of its probability decomposition. In the single robot level, the semantic point cloud is obtained based on heterogeneous sensor fusion model and is used to generate local semantic maps. Since the voxel correspondence is unknown in collaborative robots level, an Expectation-Maximization approach is proposed to estimate the hidden data association, where Bayesian rule is applied to perform semantic and occupancy probability update. The experimental results show the high quality global semantic map, demonstrating the accuracy and utility of 3D semantic map fusion algorithm in real missions.


Title: Robust Method for Removing Dynamic Objects from Point Clouds
Abstract: 3D point cloud maps are an accumulation of laser scans obtained at different positions and times. Since laser scans represent a snapshot of the surrounding at the time of capture, they often contain moving objects which may not be observed at all times. Dynamic objects in point cloud maps decrease the quality of maps and affect localization accuracy, hence it is important to remove the dynamic objects from 3D point cloud maps. In this paper, we present a robust method to remove dynamic objects from 3D point cloud maps. Given a registered set of 3D point clouds, we build an occupancy map in which the voxels represent the occupancy state of the volume of space over an extended time period. After building the occupancy map, we use it as a filter to remove dynamic points in lidar scans before adding the points to the map. Furthermore, we accelerate the process of building occupancy maps using object detection and a novel voxel traversal method. Once the occupancy map is built, dynamic object removal can run in real-time. Our approach works well on wide urban roads with stopped or moving traffic and the occupancy maps get better with the inclusion of more lidar scans from the same scene.


Title: 2D to 3D Line-Based Registration with Unknown Associations via Mixed-Integer Programming
Abstract: Determining the rigid-body transformation be-tween 2D image data and 3D point cloud data has applications for mobile robotics including sensor calibration and localizing into a prior map. Common approaches to 2D-3D registration use least-squares solvers assuming known associations often provided by heuristic front-ends, or iterative nearest-neighbor. We present a linear line-based 2D-3D registration algorithm formulated as a mixed-integer program to simultaneously solve for the correct transformation and data association. Our formulation is explicitly formulated to handle outliers, by modeling associations as integer variables. Additionally, we can constrain the registration to SE(2) to improve runtime and accuracy. We evaluate this search over multiple real-world data sets demonstrating adaptability to scene variation.


Title: DirectShape: Direct Photometric Alignment of Shape Priors for Visual Vehicle Pose and Shape Estimation
Abstract: Scene understanding from images is a challenging problem encountered in autonomous driving. On the object level, while 2D methods have gradually evolved from computing simple bounding boxes to delivering finer grained results like instance segmentations, the 3D family is still dominated by estimating 3D bounding boxes. In this paper, we propose a novel approach to jointly infer the 3D rigid-body poses and shapes of vehicles from a stereo image pair using shape priors. Unlike previous works that geometrically align shapes to point clouds from dense stereo reconstruction, our approach works directly on images by combining a photometric and a silhouette alignment term in the energy function. An adaptive sparse point selection scheme is proposed to efficiently measure the consistency with both terms. In experiments, we show superior performance of our method on 3D pose and shape estimation over the previous geometric approach and demonstrate that our method can also be applied as a refinement step and significantly boost the performances of several state-of-the-art deep learning based 3D object detectors. All related materials and demonstration videos are available at the project page https://vision.in.tum.de/research/vslam/direct-shape.


