total paper: 140
Title: Training Adversarial Agents to Exploit Weaknesses in Deep Control Policies
Abstract: Deep learning has become an increasingly common technique for various control problems, such as robotic arm manipulation, robot navigation, and autonomous vehicles. However, the downside of using deep neural networks to learn control policies is their opaque nature and the difficulties of validating their safety. As the networks used to obtain state-of-the-art results become increasingly deep and complex, the rules they have learned and how they operate become more challenging to understand. This presents an issue, since in safety-critical applications the safety of the control policy must be ensured to a high confidence level. In this paper, we propose an automated black box testing framework based on adversarial reinforcement learning. The technique uses an adversarial agent, whose goal is to degrade the performance of the target model under test. We test the approach on an autonomous vehicle problem, by training an adversarial reinforcement learning agent, which aims to cause a deep neural network-driven autonomous vehicle to collide. Two neural networks trained for autonomous driving are compared, and the results from the testing are used to compare the robustness of their learned control policies. We show that the proposed framework is able to find weaknesses in both control policies that were not evident during online testing and therefore, demonstrate a significant benefit over manual testing methods.


Title: Voxel-based General Voronoi Diagram for Complex Data with Application on Motion Planning
Abstract: One major challenge in Assembly Sequence Planning (ASP) for complex real-world CAD-scenarios is to find appropriate disassembly paths for all assembled parts. Such a path places demands on its length and clearance. In the past, it became apparent that planning the disassembly path based on the (approximate) General Voronoi Diagram (GVD) is a good approach to achieve these requirements. But for complex real-world data, every known solution for computing the GVD is either too slow or very memory consuming, even if only approximating the GVD.We present a new approach for computing the approximate GVD and demonstrate its practicability using a representative vehicle data set. We can calculate an approximation of the GVD within minutes and meet the accuracy requirement of some few millimeters for the subsequent path planning. This is achieved by voxelizing the surface with a common error-bounded GPU render approach. We then use an error-bounded wavefront propagation technique and combine it with a novel hash table-based data structure, the so-called Voronoi Voxel History (VVH). On top of the GVD, we present a novel approach for the creation of a General Voronoi Diagram Graph (GVDG) that leads to an extensive roadmap. For the later motion planning task this roadmap can be used to suggest appropriate disassembly paths.


Title: Stable Control in Climbing and Descending Flight under Upper Walls using Ceiling Effect Model based on Aerodynamics
Abstract: Stable flight control under ceilings is difficult for multirotor Unmanned Aerial Vehicles (UAVs). The wake interaction between rotors and upper walls, called the "ceiling effect", causes an increase of rotor thrust. As a result of the thrust increase, multi-rotors are drawn upward abruptly and collide with ceilings. In previous work, several thrust models of the ceiling effect have been proposed for stable flight under ceilings, assuming that the airflow around rotors is in steady states. However, the airflow around rotors in vertical flight is not in steady states and each thrust model in previous work is skillfully determined based on large amounts of precise experimental data. In this paper, we introduce an aerodynamics-based thrust model and a stable control method under ceilings. This model is derived from the momentum theory and the relationship between vertical climbing/descending rates of rotors and an induced velocity. To confirm our proposed model, we collect thrust data at various vertical rates in flight. In addition, we use only onboard sensors to estimate selfstate for structural inspections. Consequently, we reveal that the proposed model is consistent with the experimental results. Based on an aerodynamic model, we need not collect large amounts of precise experimental data to realize stable flight. Furthermore, the vertical flight tests under ceilings demonstrate that our in-unsteady-state-model-based controller outperforms the conventional steady-state ones.


Title: Motion Primitives-based Path Planning for Fast and Agile Exploration using Aerial Robots
Abstract: This paper presents a novel path planning strategy for fast and agile exploration using aerial robots. Tailored to the combined need for large-scale exploration of challenging and confined environments, despite the limited endurance of micro aerial vehicles, the proposed planner employs motion primitives to identify admissible paths that search the configuration space, while exploiting the dynamic flight properties of small aerial robots. Utilizing a computationally efficient volumetric representation of the environment, the planner provides fast collision-free and future-safe paths that maximize the expected exploration gain and ensure continuous fast navigation through the unknown environment. The new method is field-verified in a set of deployments relating to subterranean exploration and specifically, in both modern and abandoned underground mines in Northern Nevada utilizing a 0.55m-wide collision-tolerant flying robot exploring with a speed of up to 2m/s and navigating sections with width as small as 0.8m.


Title: Unsupervised Anomaly Detection for Self-flying Delivery Drones
Abstract: We propose a novel anomaly detection framework for a fleet of hybrid aerial vehicles executing high-speed package pickup and delivery missions. The detection is based on machine learning models of normal flight profiles, trained on millions of flight log measurements of control inputs and sensor readings. We develop a new scalable algorithm for robust regression which can simultaneously fit predictive flight dynamics models while identifying and discarding abnormal flight missions from the training set. The resulting unsupervised estimator has a very high breakdown point and can withstand massive contamination of training data to uncover what normal flight patterns look like, without requiring any form of prior knowledge of aircraft aerodynamics or manual labeling of anomalies upfront. Across many different anomaly types, spanning simple 3sigma statistical thresholds to turbulence and other equipment anomalies, our models achieve high detection rates across the board. Our method consistently outperforms alternative robust detection methods on synthetic benchmark problems. To the best of our knowledge, dynamics modeling of hybrid delivery drones for anomaly detection at the scale of 100 million measurements from 5000 real flight missions in variable flight conditions is unprecedented.


Title: Keyfilter-Aware Real-Time UAV Object Tracking
Abstract: Correlation filter-based tracking has been widely applied in unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV) with high efficiency. However, it has two imperfections, i.e., boundary effect and filter corruption. Several methods enlarging the search area can mitigate boundary effect, yet introducing undesired background distraction. Existing frame-by-frame context learning strategies for repressing background distraction nevertheless lower the tracking speed. Inspired by keyframe-based simultaneous localization and mapping, keyfilter is proposed in visual tracking for the first time, in order to handle the above issues efficiently and effectively. Keyfilters generated by periodically selected keyframes learn the context intermittently and are used to restrain the learning of filters, so that 1) context awareness can be transmitted to all the filters via keyfilter restriction, and 2) filter corruption can be repressed. Compared to the state-of-the-art results, our tracker performs better on two challenging benchmarks, with enough speed for UAV real-time applications.


Title: Deep Merging: Vehicle Merging Controller Based on Deep Reinforcement Learning with Embedding Network
Abstract: Vehicles at highway merging sections must make lane changes to join the highway. This lane change can generate congestion. To reduce congestion, vehicles should merge so as not to affect traffic flow as much as possible. In our study, we propose a vehicle controller called Deep Merging that uses deep reinforcement learning to improve the merging efficiency of vehicles while considering the impact on traffic flow. The system uses the images of a merging section as input to output the target vehicle speed. Moreover, an embedding network for estimating the controlled vehicle speed is introduced to the deep reinforcement learning network architecture to improve the learning efficiency. In order to show the effectiveness of the proposed method, the merging behavior and traffic conditions in several situations are verified by experiments using a traffic simulator. Through these experiments, it is confirmed that the proposed method enables controlled vehicles to effectively merge without adversely affecting to the traffic flow.


Title: Radar as a Teacher: Weakly Supervised Vehicle Detection using Radar Labels
Abstract: It has been demonstrated that the performance of an object detector degrades when it is used outside the domain of the data used to train it. However, obtaining training data for a new domain can be time consuming and expensive. In this work we demonstrate how a radar can be used to generate plentiful (but noisy) training data for image-based vehicle detection. We then show that the performance of a detector trained using the noisy labels can be considerably improved through a combination of noise-aware training techniques and relabelling of the training data using a second viewpoint. In our experiments, using our proposed process improves average precision by more than 17 percentage points when training from scratch and 10 percentage points when fine-tuning a pre-trained model.


Title: A Synchronization Approach for Achieving Cooperative Adaptive Cruise Control Based Non-Stop Intersection Passing
Abstract: Cooperative adaptive cruise control (CACC) of intelligent vehicles contributes to improving cruise control performance, reducing traffic congestion, saving energy and increasing traffic flow capacity. In this paper, we resolve the CACC problem from the viewpoint of synchronization control, our main idea is to introduce the spatial-temporal synchronization mechanism into vehicle platoon control to achieve the robust CACC and to further realize the non-stop intersection control. Firstly, by introducing the cross-coupling based space synchronization mechanism, a distributed control algorithm is presented to achieve the single-lane CACC in the presence of vehicle-to-vehicle (V2V) communications, which enables autonomous vehicles to track the desired platoon trajectory while synchronizing their longitudinal velocities to keeping the expected inter-vehicle distance. Secondly, by designing the enter-time scheduling mechanism (temporal synchronization), a high-level intersection control strategy is proposed to command vehicles to form a virtual platoon to pass through the intersection without stopping. Thirdly, a Lyapunov-based time-domain stability analysis approach is presented. Compared with the traditional string stability based approach, the proposed approach guarantees the global asymptotical convergence of the proposed CACC system. Experiments in the small-scale simulated system demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed approach.


Title: Urban Driving with Conditional Imitation Learning
Abstract: Hand-crafting generalised decision-making rules for real-world urban autonomous driving is hard. Alternatively, learning behaviour from easy-to-collect human driving demonstrations is appealing. Prior work has studied imitation learning (IL) for autonomous driving with a number of limitations. Examples include only performing lane-following rather than following a user-defined route, only using a single camera view or heavily cropped frames lacking state observability, only lateral (steering) control, but not longitudinal (speed) control and a lack of interaction with traffic. Importantly, the majority of such systems have been primarily evaluated in simulation - a simple domain, which lacks real-world complexities. Motivated by these challenges, we focus on learning representations of semantics, geometry and motion with computer vision for IL from human driving demonstrations. As our main contribution, we present an end-to-end conditional imitation learning approach, combining both lateral and longitudinal control on a real vehicle for following urban routes with simple traffic. We address inherent dataset bias by data balancing, training our final policy on approximately 30 hours of demonstrations gathered over six months. We evaluate our method on an autonomous vehicle by driving 35km of novel routes in European urban streets.


Title: Vehicle Localization Based on Visual Lane Marking and Topological Map Matching
Abstract: Accurate and reliable localization is crucial to autonomous vehicle navigation and driver assistance systems. This paper presents a novel approach for online vehicle localization in a digital map. Two distinct map matching algorithms are proposed: i) Iterative Closest Point (ICP) based lane level map matching is performed with visual lane tracker and grid map ii) decision-rule based approach is used to perform topological map matching. Results of both the map matching algorithms are fused together with GPS and dead reckoning using Extended Kalman Filter to estimate vehicle's pose relative to the map. The proposed approach has been validated on real life conditions on an equipped vehicle. Detailed analysis of the experimental results show improved localization using the two aforementioned map matching algorithms.


Title: UBAT: On Jointly Optimizing UAV Trajectories and Placement of Battery Swap Stations
Abstract: Unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs) have been widely used in many applications. The limited flight time of UAVs, however, still remains as a major challenge. Although numerous approaches have been developed to recharge the battery of UAVs effectively, little is known about optimal methodologies to deploy charging stations. In this paper, we address the charging station deployment problem with an aim to find the optimal number and locations of charging stations such that the system performance is maximized. We show that the problem is NP-Hard and propose UBAT, a heuristic framework based on the ant colony optimization (ACO) to solve the problem. Additionally, a suite of algorithms are designed to enhance the execution time and the quality of the solutions for UBAT. Through extensive simulations, we demonstrate that UBAT effectively performs multi-objective optimization of generation of UAV trajectories and placement of charging stations that are within 8.3% and 7.3% of the true optimal solutions, respectively.


Title: Bi-Convex Approximation of Non-Holonomic Trajectory Optimization
Abstract: Autonomous cars and fixed-wing aerial vehicles have the so-called non-holonomic kinematics which non-linearly maps control input to states. As a result, trajectory optimization with such a motion model becomes highly non-linear and non-convex. In this paper, we improve the computational tractability of non-holonomic trajectory optimization by reformulating it in terms of a set of bi-convex cost and constraint functions along with a non-linear penalty. The bi-convex part acts as a relaxation for the non-holonomic trajectory optimization while the residual of the penalty dictates how well its output obeys the non-holonomic behavior. We adopt an alternating minimization approach for solving the reformulated problem and show that it naturally leads to the replacement of the challenging non-linear penalty with a globally valid convex surrogate. Along with the common cost functions modeling goal-reaching, trajectory smoothness, etc., the proposed optimizer can also accommodate a class of non-linear costs for modeling goal-sets, while retaining the bi-convex structure. We benchmark the proposed optimizer against off-the-shelf solvers implementing sequential quadratic programming and interior-point methods and show that it produces solutions with similar or better cost as the former while significantly outperforming the latter. Furthermore, as compared to both off-the-shelf solvers, the proposed optimizer achieves more than 20x reduction in computation time.


Title: Using Manipulation to Enable Adaptive Ground Mobility
Abstract: In order to accomplish various missions, autonomous ground vehicles must operate on a wide range of terrain. While many systems such as wheels and whegs can navigate some types of terrain, none are optimal across all. This creates a need for physical adaptation. This paper presents a broad new approach to physical adaptation that relies on manipulation. Specifically, we explore how multipurpose manipulators can enable ground vehicles to dramatically modify their propulsion system in order to optimize performance across various terrain. While this approach is general and widely applicable, this work focuses on physically switching between wheels and legs. We outline the design of "swappable propulsors" that combine the powerful adhesion forces of permanent magnets with geometric features for easy detachment. We provide analysis on how the swappable propulsors can be manipulated, and use these results to create a functional prototype robot. This robot can use its manipulator to change between wheeled and legged locomotion. Our experimental results illustrate how this approach can enhance energy efficiency and versatility.


Title: Cooperative Autonomy and Data Fusion for Underwater Surveillance With Networked AUVs
Abstract: Cooperative autonomy and data sharing can largely improve the mission performance of robotic networks in underwater surveillance applications. In this paper, we describe the cooperative autonomy used to control the Autonomous Underwater Vehicles (AUVs) acting as sonar receiver nodes in the CMRE Anti-Submarine Warfare (ASW) network. The paper focuses on a track management module that was integrated in the robot autonomy software for enabling the share of information. Track to track (T2T) associations are used for improving track classification and for creating a common tactical picture, necessary for AUV cooperative strategies. We also present a new cooperative data-driven AUV behaviour that exploits the spatial diversity of multiple robots for improving target tracking and for facilitating T2T associations. We report results with real data collected at sea that validate the approach. The reported results are one of the first examples that show the potential of cooperative autonomy and data fusion in realistic underwater surveillance scenarios characterised by limited communications.


Title: Bidirectional Resonant Propulsion and Localization for AUVs
Abstract: Battery life, reliability, and localization are prominent challenges in the design of autonomous underwater vehicles (AUVs). This work aims to address facets of these challenges using a single system. We describe the design of a bidirectional resonant pump that uses a single electromagnetic voice coil motor (VCM) capable of rotation around a central two degree-of-freedom flexure stage axis. This actuator design produces highly efficient resonant motion that drives two orthogonally oriented diaphragms simultaneously. The operation of this diaphragm pump mechanism produces both adjustable thrust vectors at the aft surface of the AUV and a monotonic relationship between thrust vectors and operating frequency. We propose using the unique frequency to thrust relationship to enhance AUV localization capabilities. We construct a prototype and use it to experimentally demonstrate the feasibility of the directionally-tunable resonance concept.


Title: Hierarchical Planning in Time-Dependent Flow Fields for Marine Robots
Abstract: We present an efficient approach for finding shortest paths in flow fields that vary as a sequence of flow predictions over time. This approach is applicable to motion planning for slow marine robots that are subject to dynamic ocean currents. Although the problem is NP-hard in general form, we incorporate recent results from the theory of finding shortest paths in time-dependent graphs to construct a polynomial-time algorithm that finds continuous trajectories in time-dependent flow fields. The algorithm has a hierarchical structure where a graph is constructed with time-varying edge costs that are derived from sets of continuous trajectories in the underlying flow field. We show that the continuous algorithm retains the time complexity and path quality properties of the discrete graph solution, and demonstrate its application to surface and underwater vehicles including a traversal along the East Australian Current with an autonomous marine vehicle. Results show that the algorithm performs efficiently in practice and can find paths that adapt to changing ocean currents. These results are significant to marine robotics because they allow for efficient use of time-varying ocean predictions for motion planning.


Title: Navigation in the Presence of Obstacles for an Agile Autonomous Underwater Vehicle
Abstract: Navigation underwater traditionally is done by keeping a safe distance from obstacles, resulting in "fly-overs" of the area of interest. Movement of an autonomous underwater vehicle (AUV) through a cluttered space, such as a shipwreck or a decorated cave, is an extremely challenging problem that has not been addressed in the past. This paper proposes a novel navigation framework utilizing an enhanced version of Trajopt for fast 3D path-optimization planning for AUVs. A sampling-based correction procedure ensures that the planning is not constrained by local minima, enabling navigation through narrow spaces. Two different modalities are proposed: planning with a known map results in efficient trajectories through cluttered spaces; operating in an unknown environment utilizes the point cloud from the visual features detected to navigate efficiently while avoiding the detected obstacles. The proposed approach is rigorously tested, both on simulation and in-pool experiments, proven to be fast enough to enable safe real-time 3D autonomous navigation for an AUV.


Title: Real-Time UAV Path Planning for Autonomous Urban Scene Reconstruction
Abstract: Unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs) are frequently used for large-scale scene mapping and reconstruction. However, in most cases, drones are operated manually, which should be more effective and intelligent. In this article, we present a method of real-time UAV path planning for autonomous urban scene reconstruction. Considering the obstacles and time costs, we utilize the top view to generate the initial path. Then we estimate the building heights and take close-up pictures that reveal building details through a SLAM framework. To predict the coverage of the scene, we propose a novel method which combines information on reconstructed point clouds and possible coverage areas. The experimental results reveal that the reconstruction quality of our method is good enough. Our method is also more time-saving than the state-of-the-arts.


Title: Privacy-Aware UAV Flights through Self-Configuring Motion Planning
Abstract: During flights, an unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV) may not be allowed to move across certain areas due to soft constraints such as privacy restrictions. Current methods on self-adaption focus mostly on motion planning such that the trajectory does not trespass predetermined restricted areas. When the environment is cluttered with uncertain obstacles, however, these motion planning algorithms are not flexible enough to find a trajectory that satisfies additional privacy-preserving requirements within a tight time budget during the flights. In this paper, we propose a privacy risk aware motion planning method through the reconfiguration of privacy-sensitive sensors. It minimises environmental impact by re-configuring the sensor during flight, while still guaranteeing the safety and energy hard constraints such as collision avoidance and timeliness. First, we formulate a model for assessing privacy risks of dynamically detected restricted areas. In case the UAV cannot find a feasible solution to satisfy both hard and soft constraints from the current configuration, our decision making method can then produce an optimal reconfiguration of the privacy-sensitive sensor with a more efficient trajectory. We evaluate the proposal through various simulations with different settings in a virtual environment and also validate the approach through real test flights on DJI Matrice 100 UAV.


Title: FG-GMM-based Interactive Behavior Estimation for Autonomous Driving Vehicles in Ramp Merging Control *
Abstract: Interactive behavior is important for autonomous driving vehicles, especially for scenarios like ramp merging which require significant social interaction between autonomous driving vehicles and human-driven cars. This paper enhances our previous Probabilistic Graphical Model (PGM) merging control model for the interactive behavior of autonomous driving vehicles. To better estimate the interactive behavior for autonomous driving cars, a Factor Graph (FG) is used to describe the dependency among observations and estimate other cars' intentions. Real trajectories are used to approximate the model instead of human-designed models or cost functions. Forgetting factors and a Gaussian Mixture Model (GMM) are also applied in the intention estimation process for stabilization, interpolation and smoothness. The advantage of the factor graph is that the relationship between its nodes can be described by self-defined functions, instead of probabilistic relationships as in PGM, giving more flexibility. Continuity of GMM also provides higher accuracy than the previous discrete speed transition model. The proposed method enhances the overall performance of intention estimation, in terms of collision rate and average distance between cars after merging, which means it is safer and more efficient.


Title: Cooperative Perception and Localization for Cooperative Driving
Abstract: Fully autonomous vehicles are expected to share the road with less advanced vehicles for a significant period of time. Furthermore, an increasing number of vehicles on the road are equipped with a variety of low-fidelity sensors which provide some perception and localization data, but not at a high enough quality for full autonomy. In this paper, we develop a perception and localization system that allows a vehicle with low-fidelity sensors to incorporate high-fidelity observations from a vehicle in front of it, allowing both vehicles to operate with full autonomy. The resulting system generates perception and localization information that is both low-noise in regions covered by high-fidelity sensors and avoids false negatives in areas only observed by low-fidelity sensors, while dealing with latency and dropout of the communication link between the two vehicles. At its core, the system uses a set of Extended Kalman filters which incorporate observations from both vehicles' sensors and extrapolate them using information about the road geometry. The perception and localization algorithms are evaluated both in simulation and on real vehicles as part of a full cooperative driving system.


Title: Ground Texture Based Localization Using Compact Binary Descriptors
Abstract: Ground texture based localization is a promising approach to achieve high-accuracy positioning of vehicles. We present a self-contained method that can be used for global localization as well as for subsequent local localization updates, i.e. it allows a robot to localize without any knowledge of its current whereabouts, but it can also take advantage of a prior pose estimate to reduce computation time significantly. Our method is based on a novel matching strategy, which we call identity matching, that is based on compact binary feature descriptors. Identity matching treats pairs of features as matches only if their descriptors are identical. While other methods for global localization are faster to compute, our method reaches higher localization success rates, and can switch to local localization after the initial localization.


Title: Reliable Data Association for Feature-Based Vehicle Localization using Geometric Hashing Methods
Abstract: Reliable data association represents a main challenge of feature-based vehicle localization and is the key to integrity of localization. Independent of the type of features used, incorrect associations between detected and mapped features will provide erroneous position estimates. Only if the uniqueness of a local environment is represented by the features that are stored in the map, the reliability of localization is enhanced. In this work, a new approach based on Geometric Hashing is introduced to the field of data association for feature-based vehicle localization. Without any information on a prior position, the proposed method allows to efficiently search large map regions for plausible feature associations. Therefore, odometry and GNSS-based inputs can be neglected, which reduces the risk of error propagation and enables safe localization. The approach is demonstrated on approximately 10min of data recorded in an urban scenario. Cylindrical objects without distinctive descriptors, which were extracted from LiDAR data, serve as localization features. Experimental results both demonstrate the feasibility as well as limitations of the approach.


Title: The OmniScape Dataset
Abstract: Despite the utility and benefits of omnidirectional images in robotics and automotive applications, there are no datasets of omnidirectional images available with semantic segmentation, depth map, and dynamic properties. This is due to the time cost and human effort required to annotate ground truth images. This paper presents a framework for generating omnidirectional images using images that are acquired from a virtual environment. For this purpose, we demonstrate the relevance of the proposed framework on two well-known simulators: CARLA Simulator, which is an open-source simulator for autonomous driving research, and Grand Theft Auto V (GTA V), which is a very high quality video game. We explain in details the generated OmniScape dataset, which includes stereo fisheye and catadioptric images acquired from the two front sides of a motorcycle, including semantic segmentation, depth map, intrinsic parameters of the cameras and the dynamic parameters of the motorcycle. It is worth noting that the case of two-wheeled vehicles is more challenging than cars due to the specific dynamic of these vehicles.


Title: Reliable frame-to-frame motion estimation for vehicle-mounted surround-view camera systems
Abstract: Modern vehicles are often equipped with a surround-view multi-camera system. The current interest in autonomous driving invites the investigation of how to use such systems for a reliable estimation of relative vehicle displacement. Existing camera pose algorithms either work for a single camera, make overly simplified assumptions, are computationally expensive, or simply become degenerate under non-holonomic vehicle motion. In this paper, we introduce a new, reliable solution able to handle all kinds of relative displacements in the plane despite the possibly non-holonomic characteristics. We furthermore introduce a novel two-view optimization scheme which minimizes a geometrically relevant error without relying on 3D point related optimization variables. Our method leads to highly reliable and accurate frame-to-frame visual odometry with a full-size, vehicle-mounted surround-view camera system.


Title: Distance and Steering Heuristics for Streamline-Based Flow Field Planning
Abstract: Motion planning for vehicles under the influence of flow fields can benefit from the idea of streamline-based planning, which exploits ideas from fluid dynamics to achieve computational efficiency. Important to such planners is an efficient means of computing the travel distance and direction between two points in free space, but this is difficult to achieve in strong incompressible flows such as ocean currents. We propose two useful distance functions in analytical form that combine Euclidean distance with values of the stream function associated with a flow field, and with an estimation of the strength of the opposing flow between two points. Further, we propose steering heuristics that are useful for steering towards a sampled point. We evaluate these ideas by integrating them with RRT* and comparing the algorithm's performance with state-of-the-art methods in an artificial flow field and in actual ocean prediction data in the region of the dominant East Australian Current between Sydney and Brisbane. Results demonstrate the method's computational efficiency and ability to find high-quality paths outperforming state-of-the-art methods, and show promise for practical use with autonomous marine robots.


Title: Enhancing Coral Reef Monitoring Utilizing a Deep Semi-Supervised Learning Approach
Abstract: Coral species detection underwater is a challenging problem. There are many cases when even the experts (marine biologists) fail to recognize corals, hence limiting ground truth annotation for training a robust detection system. Identifying coral species is fundamental for enabling the monitoring of coral reefs, a task currently performed by humans, which can be automated with the use of underwater robots. By employing temporal cues using a tracker on a high confidence prediction by a convolutional neural network-based object detector, we augment the collected dataset for the retraining of the object detector. However, using trackers to extract examples also introduces hard or mislabelled samples, which is counterproductive and will deteriorate the performance of the detector. In this work, we show that employing a simple deep neural network to filter out hard or mislabelled samples can help regulate sample extraction. We empirically evaluate our approach in a coral object dataset, collected via an Autonomous Underwater Vehicle (AUV) and human divers, that shows the benefit of incorporating extracted examples obtained from tracking. This work also demonstrates how controlling sample generation by tracking using a simple deep neural network can further improve an object detector.


Title: Demonstration of Autonomous Nested Search for Local Maxima Using an Unmanned Underwater Vehicle
Abstract: Ocean Worlds represent one of the best chances for extra-terrestrial life in our solar system. A new mission concept must be developed to explore these oceans. This mission would require traversing the 10s of km thick icy shell and releasing a submersible into the ocean below. During the transit of the icy shell and the exploration of the ocean, the vehicle(s) would be out of contact with Earth for weeks or potentially months at a time. During this time the vehicle must have sufficient autonomy to locate and study scientific targets of interest. One such target of interest is hydrothermal venting. We have previously developed an autonomous nested search method to locate and investigate sources of hydrothermal venting by locating local maxima in hydrothermal vent emissions. In this work we demonstrate this approach on board an OceanServer Iver2 AUV in Chesapeake Bay, MD using simulated sensor data from a hydrothermal plume model. This represents the first step towards the deployment of this approach in conditions analogous to those that we might expect on an Ocean World.


Title: VALID: A Comprehensive Virtual Aerial Image Dataset
Abstract: Aerial imagery plays an important role in land-use planning, population analysis, precision agriculture, and unmanned aerial vehicle tasks. However, existing aerial image datasets generally suffer from the problem of inaccurate labeling, single ground truth type, and few category numbers. In this work, we implement a simulator that can simultaneously acquire diverse visual ground truth data in the virtual environment. Based on that, we collect a comprehensive Virtual AeriaL Image Dataset named VALID, consisting of 6690 high-resolution images, all annotated with panoptic segmentation on 30 categories, object detection with oriented bounding box, and binocular depth maps, collected in 6 different virtual scenes and 5 various ambient conditions (sunny, dusk, night, snow and fog). To our knowledge, VALID is the first aerial image dataset that can provide panoptic level segmentation and complete dense depth maps. We analyze the characteristics of VALID and evaluate state-of-the-art methods for multiple tasks to provide reference baselines. The experiment results demonstrate that VALID is well presented and challenging. The dataset is available at https://sites.google.com/view/valid-dataset/.


Title: A Morphable Aerial-Aquatic Quadrotor with Coupled Symmetric Thrust Vectoring
Abstract: Hybrid aerial-aquatic vehicles have the unique ability of travelling in both air and water and can benefit from both lower fluid resistance in air and energy efficient position holding in water. However, they have to address the differing requirements which make optimising a single design difficult. While existing examples have shown the possibility of such vehicles, they are mostly structurally identical to normal aerial vehicles with minor adjustments to work underwater. Instead of using rotational acceleration to direct a component of thrust in surge and sway, we propose a quadrotor based vehicle that tilts its rotors about the respective arm so that a larger component of thrust can be directed in the lateral plane or in the opposite direction without rotating the vehicle body. A small-scale prototype of this design is presented here, detailing the design considerations including mechanical actuation, static stability and waterproofing.


Title: SegVoxelNet: Exploring Semantic Context and Depth-aware Features for 3D Vehicle Detection from Point Cloud
Abstract: 3D vehicle detection based on point cloud is a challenging task in real-world applications such as autonomous driving. Despite significant progress has been made, we observe two aspects to be further improved. First, the semantic context information in LiDAR is seldom explored in previous works, which may help identify ambiguous vehicles. Second, the distribution of point cloud on vehicles varies continuously with increasing depths, which may not be well modeled by a single model. In this work, we propose a unified model SegVoxelNet to address the above two problems. A semantic context encoder is proposed to leverage the free-of-charge semantic segmentation masks in the bird's eye view. Suspicious regions could be highlighted while noisy regions are suppressed by this module. To better deal with vehicles at different depths, a novel depth-aware head is designed to explicitly model the distribution differences and each part of the depth-aware head is made to focus on its own target detection range. Extensive experiments on the KITTI dataset show that the proposed method outperforms the state-of-the-art alternatives in both accuracy and efficiency with point cloud as input only.


Title: How to Keep HD Maps for Automated Driving Up To Date
Abstract: The current state of the art in automotive high definition digital (HD) map generation based on dedicated mapping vehicles cannot reliably keep these maps up to date because of the low traversal frequencies. Anonymized data collected from the fleet of vehicles that is already on the road provides a huge potential to outperform such state of the art solutions in robustness, safety and up-to-dateness of the map while achieving comparable quality. We thus present a solution based on crowdsourced data to (i) detect changes in the map independent of the type of change, (ii) automatically trigger map update jobs for parts of the map, and (iii) create and integrate map patches to keep the map always up to date. The developed solution provides a crowdsourced up to date HD map to make reliable prior information on lane markings and road edges available to automated driving functions.


Title: Joint Human Pose Estimation and Stereo 3D Localization
Abstract: We present an end-to-end trainable Neural Network architecture for stereo imaging that jointly locates and estimates human body poses in 3D. Our method defines a 2D pose for each human in a stereo pair of images and uses a correlation layer with a composite field to associate each left-right pair of joints. In absence of a stereo pose dataset, we show that we can train our method with synthetic data only and test it on real-world images (i.e., our training stage is domain invariant). Our method is particularly suitable for autonomous vehicles. We achieve state-of-the-art results for the 3D localization task on the challenging real-world KITTI dataset while running four times faster.


Title: BiCF: Learning Bidirectional Incongruity-Aware Correlation Filter for Efficient UAV Object Tracking
Abstract: Correlation filters (CFs) have shown excellent performance in unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV) tracking scenarios due to their high computational efficiency. During the UAV tracking process, viewpoint variations are usually accompanied by changes in the object and background appearance, which poses a unique challenge to CF-based trackers. Since the appearance is gradually changing over time, an ideal tracker can not only forward predict the object position but also backtrack to locate its position in the previous frame. There exist response-based errors in the reversibility of the tracking process containing the information on the changes in appearance. However, some existing methods do not consider the forward and backward errors based on while using only the current training sample to learn the filter. For other ones, the applicants of considerable historical training samples impose a computational burden on the UAV. In this work, a novel bidirectional incongruity-aware correlation filter (BiCF) is proposed. By integrating the response-based bidirectional incongruity error into the CF, BiCF can Efficiently learn the changes in appearance and suppress the inconsistent error. Extensive experiments on 243 challenging sequences from three UAV datasets (UAV123, UAVDT, and DTB70) are conducted to demonstrate that BiCF favorably outperforms other 25 state-of-the-art trackers and achieves a real-time speed of 45.4 FPS on a single CPU, which can be applied in UAV Efficiently.


Title: Enhancing Bilevel Optimization for UAV Time-Optimal Trajectory using a Duality Gap Approach
Abstract: Time-optimal trajectories for dynamic robotic vehicles are difficult to compute even for state-of-the-art nonlinear programming (NLP) solvers, due to nonlinearity and bang-bang control structure. This paper presents a bilevel optimization framework that addresses these problems by decomposing the spatial and temporal variables into a hierarchical optimization. Specifically, the original problem is divided into an inner layer, which computes a time-optimal velocity profile along a given geometric path, and an outer layer, which refines the geometric path by a Quasi-Newton method. The inner optimization is convex and efficiently solved by interior-point methods. The gradients of the outer layer can be analytically obtained using sensitivity analysis of parametric optimization problems. A novel contribution is to introduce a duality gap in the inner optimization rather than solving it to optimality; this lets the optimizer realize warm-starting of the interior-point method, avoids non-smoothness of the outer cost function caused by active inequality constraint switching. Like prior bilevel frameworks, this method is guaranteed to return a feasible solution at any time, but converges faster than gap-free bilevel optimization. Numerical experiments on a drone model with velocity and acceleration limits show that the proposed method performs faster and more robustly than gap-free bilevel optimization and general NLP solvers.


Title: Super-Pixel Sampler: a Data-driven Approach for Depth Sampling and Reconstruction
Abstract: Depth acquisition, based on active illumination, is essential for autonomous and robotic navigation. LiDARs (Light Detection And Ranging) with mechanical, fixed, sampling templates are commonly used in today's autonomous vehicles. An emerging technology, based on solid-state depth sensors, with no mechanical parts, allows fast and adaptive scans. In this paper, we propose an adaptive, image-driven, fast, sampling and reconstruction strategy. First, we formulate a piece-wise planar depth model and estimate its validity for indoor and outdoor scenes. Our model and experiments predict that, in the optimal case, adaptive sampling strategies with about 20-60 piece-wise planar structures can approximate well a depth map. This translates to requiring a single depth sample for every 1200 RGB samples (less than 0.1%), providing strong motivation to investigate an adaptive framework. Second, we introduce SPS (Super-Pixel Sampler), a simple, generic, sampling and reconstruction algorithm, based on super-pixels. Our sampling improves grid and random sampling, consistently, for a wide variety of reconstruction methods. Third, we propose an extremely simple and fast reconstruction for our sampler. It achieves state-of-the-art results, compared to complex image- guided depth completion algorithms, reducing the required sampling rate by a factor of 3-4. A single-pixel prototype sampler built in our lab illustrates the concept.


Title: Robust Vision-based Obstacle Avoidance for Micro Aerial Vehicles in Dynamic Environments
Abstract: In this paper, we present an on-board vision-based approach for avoidance of moving obstacles in dynamic environments. Our approach relies on an efficient obstacle detection and tracking algorithm based on depth image pairs, which provides the estimated position, velocity and size of the obstacles. Robust collision avoidance is achieved by formulating a chance-constrained model predictive controller (CC-MPC) to ensure that the collision probability between the micro aerial vehicle (MAV) and each moving obstacle is below a specified threshold. The method takes into account MAV dynamics, state estimation and obstacle sensing uncertainties. The proposed approach is implemented on a quadrotor equipped with a stereo camera and is tested in a variety of environments, showing effective on-line collision avoidance of moving obstacles.


Title: Proximity Estimation Using Vision Features Computed On Sensor
Abstract: This paper presents a monocular vision based proximity estimation system using abstract features, such as corner points, blobs and edges, as inputs to a neural network. An experimental vehicle was built using a vision system integrating the SCAMP-5 vision chip, a micro-controller, and an RC model car. The vision chip includes image sensor with embedded 256×256 processor SIMD array. The pixel processor array chip was programmed to capture images and run the feature algorithms directly on the focal plane, and then digest them so that only sparse feature description data were read-out in the form of 40 values. By logging the vision output and the output from three infrared proximity sensors, training data were obtained to train three fully connected layer-recurrent neural networks with fewer than 700 parameters each. The trained neural network was able to estimate the proximity to the level of accuracy sufficient for a reactive collision avoidance behaviour to be achieved. The latency of the control system, from image capture to neural network output, was under 4ms, enabling the vehicles to avoid obstacles while moving at 0.64m/s to 1.8m/s in the experiment.


Title: Efficient Globally-Optimal Correspondence-Less Visual Odometry for Planar Ground Vehicles
Abstract: The motion of planar ground vehicles is often non-holonomic, and as a result may be modelled by the 2 DoF Ackermann steering model. We analyse the feasibility of estimating such motion with a downward facing camera that exerts fronto-parallel motion with respect to the ground plane. This turns the motion estimation into a simple image registration problem in which we only have to identify a 2-parameter planar homography. However, one difficulty that arises from this setup is that ground-plane features are indistinctive and thus hard to match between successive views. We encountered this difficulty by introducing the first globally-optimal, correspondence-less solution to plane-based Ackermann motion estimation. The solution relies on the branch-and-bound optimisation technique. Through the low-dimensional parametrisation, a derivation of tight bounds, and an efficient implementation, we demonstrate how this technique is eventually amenable to accurate real-time motion estimation. We prove its property of global optimality and analyse the impact of assuming a locally constant centre of rotation. Our results on real data finally demonstrate a significant advantage over the more traditional, correspondence-based hypothesise-and-test schemes.


Title: Ibex: A reconfigurable ground vehicle with adaptive terrain navigation capability
Abstract: This paper presents a unique unmanned ground vehicle with a dynamic wheelbase and an adaptive thrust based friction optimization scheme that aids in the traversal of steep slopes and slippery surfaces. The vehicle is capable of adapting itself to the surface topography using an impedance-based stabilization module to minimize the mechanical oscillatory transients induced during its motion. A detailed analysis of its modules has been elucidated in this paper based on the vehicle parameters. The proposed methodologies have been integrated and tested on a customized prototype. Experimental validation and simulation for the proposed modules at various terrain conditions have been carried out to authenticate its performance.


Title: Uncertainty-Based Adaptive Sensor Fusion for Visual-Inertial Odometry under Various Motion Characteristics
Abstract: We propose an uncertainty-based sensor fusion framework for visual-inertial odometry, which is the task of estimating relative motion using images and measurements from inertial measurement units. Visual-inertial odometry enables robust and scale-aware estimation of motion by incorporating sensor states, such as metric scale, velocity, and the direction of gravity, into the estimation. However, the observability of the states depends on sensor motion. For example, if the sensor moves in a constant velocity, scale and velocity cannot be observed from inertial measurements. Under these degenerate motions, existing methods may produce inaccurate results because they incorporate erroneous states estimated from non-informative inertial measurements. Our proposed framework is able to avoid this situation by adaptively switching estimation modes, which represents the states that should be incorporated, based on their uncertainties. These uncertainties can be obtained at a small computational cost by reusing the Jacobian matrices computed in bundle adjustment. Our approach consistently outperformed conventional sensor fusion in datasets with different motion characteristics, namely, the KITTI odometry dataset recorded by a ground vehicle and the EuRoC MAV dataset captured from a micro aerial vehicle.


Title: Loam livox: A fast, robust, high-precision LiDAR odometry and mapping package for LiDARs of small FoV
Abstract: LiDAR odometry and mapping (LOAM) has been playing an important role in autonomous vehicles, due to its ability to simultaneously localize the robot's pose and build high-precision, high-resolution maps of the surrounding environment. This enables autonomous navigation and safe path planning of autonomous vehicles. In this paper, we present a robust, real-time LOAM algorithm for LiDARs with small FoV and irregular samplings. By taking effort on both frontend and back-end, we address several fundamental challenges arising from such LiDARs, and achieve better performance in both precision and efficiency compared to existing baselines. To share our findings and to make contributions to the community, we open source our codes on Github1.


Title: Active SLAM using 3D Submap Saliency for Underwater Volumetric Exploration
Abstract: In this paper, we present an active SLAM framework for volumetric exploration of 3D underwater environments with multibeam sonar. Recent work in integrated SLAM and planning performs localization while maintaining volumetric free-space information. However, an absence of informative loop closures can lead to imperfect maps, and therefore unsafe behavior. To solve this, we propose a navigation policy that reduces vehicle pose uncertainty by balancing between volumetric exploration and revisitation. To identify locations to revisit, we build a 3D visual dictionary from real-world sonar data and compute a metric of submap saliency. Revisit actions are chosen based on propagated pose uncertainty and sensor information gain. Loop closures are integrated as constraints in our pose-graph SLAM formulation and these deform the global occupancy grid map. We evaluate our performance in simulation and real-world experiments, and highlight the advantages over an uncertainty-agnostic framework.


Title: Temporally Consistent Horizon Lines
Abstract: The horizon line is an important geometric feature for many image processing and scene understanding tasks in computer vision. For instance, in navigation of autonomous vehicles or driver assistance, it can be used to improve 3D reconstruction as well as for semantic interpretation of dynamic environments. While both algorithms and datasets exist for single images, the problem of horizon line estimation from video sequences has not gained attention. In this paper, we show how convolutional neural networks are able to utilise the temporal consistency imposed by video sequences in order to increase the accuracy and reduce the variance of horizon line estimates. A novel CNN architecture with an improved residual convolutional LSTM is presented for temporally consistent horizon line estimation. We propose an adaptive loss function that ensures stable training as well as accurate results. Furthermore, we introduce an extension of the KITTI dataset which contains precise horizon line labels for 43699 images across 72 video sequences. A comprehensive evaluation shows that the proposed approach consistently achieves superior performance compared with existing methods.


Title: Full-Scale Continuous Synthetic Sonar Data Generation with Markov Conditional Generative Adversarial Networks*
Abstract: Deployment and operation of autonomous underwater vehicles is expensive and time-consuming. High-quality realistic sonar data simulation could be of benefit to multiple applications, including training of human operators for post-mission analysis, as well as tuning and validation of autonomous target recognition (ATR) systems for underwater vehicles. Producing realistic synthetic sonar imagery is a challenging problem as the model has to account for specific artefacts of real acoustic sensors, vehicle attitude, and a variety of environmental factors. We propose a novel method for generating realistic-looking sonar side-scans of full-length missions, called Markov Conditional pix2pix (MC-pix2pix). Quantitative assessment results confirm that the quality of the produced data is almost indistinguishable from real. Furthermore, we show that bootstrapping ATR systems with MC-pix2pix data can improve the performance. Synthetic data is generated 18 times faster than real acquisition speed, with full user control over the topography of the generated data.


Title: Perception-aware time optimal path parameterization for quadrotors
Abstract: The increasing popularity of quadrotors has given rise to a class of predominantly vision-driven vehicles. This paper addresses the problem of perception-aware time optimal path parametrization for quadrotors. Although many different choices of perceptual modalities are available, the low weight and power budgets of quadrotor systems makes a camera ideal for on-board navigation and estimation algorithms. However, this does come with a set of challenges. The limited field of view of the camera can restrict the visibility of salient regions in the environment, which dictates the necessity to consider perception and planning jointly. The main contribution of this paper is an efficient time optimal path parametrization algorithm for quadrotors with limited field of view constraints. We show in a simulation study that a state-of-the-art controller can track planned trajectories, and we validate the proposed algorithm on a quadrotor platform in experiments.


Title: Generating Visibility-Aware Trajectories for Cooperative and Proactive Motion Planning
Abstract: The safety of an autonomous vehicle not only depends on its own perception of the world around it, but also on the perception and recognition from other vehicles. If an ego vehicle considers the uncertainty other vehicles have about itself, then by reducing the estimated uncertainty it can increase its safety. In this paper, we focus on how an ego vehicle plans its trajectories through the blind spots of other vehicles. We create visibility-aware planning, where the ego vehicle chooses its trajectories such that it reduces the perceived uncertainty other vehicles may have about the state of the ego vehicle. We present simulations of traffic and highway environments, where an ego vehicle must pass another vehicle, make a lane change, or traverse a partially-occluded intersection. Emergent behavior shows that when using visibility-aware planning, the ego vehicle spends less time in a blind spot, and may slow down before entering the blind spot so as to increase the likelihood other vehicles perceive the ego vehicle.


Title: Distributed Consensus Control of Multiple UAVs in a Constrained Environment
Abstract: In this paper, we investigate the consensus problem of multiple unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs) in the presence of environmental constraints under a general communication topology containing a directed spanning tree. First, based on a position transformation function, we propose a novel dynamic reference position and yaw angle for each UAV to cope with both the asymmetric topology and the constraints. Then, the backstepping-like design methodology is presented to derive a local tracking controller for each UAV such that its position and yaw angle can converge to the reference ones. The proposed protocol is distributed in the sense that, the input update of each UAV dynamically relies only on local state information from its neighborhood set and the constraints, and it does not require any additional centralized information. It is demonstrated that under the proposed protocol, all UAVs reach consensus without violation of the environmental constraints. Finally, simulation and experimental results are provided to demonstrate the performance of the protocol.


Title: Neural-Swarm: Decentralized Close-Proximity Multirotor Control Using Learned Interactions
Abstract: In this paper, we present Neural-Swarm, a nonlinear decentralized stable controller for close-proximity flight of multirotor swarms. Close-proximity control is challenging due to the complex aerodynamic interaction effects between multirotors, such as downwash from higher vehicles to lower ones. Conventional methods often fail to properly capture these interaction effects, resulting in controllers that must maintain large safety distances between vehicles, and thus are not capable of close-proximity flight. Our approach combines a nominal dynamics model with a regularized permutation-invariant Deep Neural Network (DNN) that accurately learns the high-order multi-vehicle interactions. We design a stable nonlinear tracking controller using the learned model. Experimental results demonstrate that the proposed controller significantly outperforms a baseline nonlinear tracking controller with up to four times smaller worst-case height tracking errors. We also empirically demonstrate the ability of our learned model to generalize to larger swarm sizes.


Title: Goal-Directed Occupancy Prediction for Lane-Following Actors
Abstract: Predicting the possible future behaviors of vehicles that drive on shared roads is a crucial task for safe autonomous driving. Many existing approaches to this problem strive to distill all possible vehicle behaviors into a simplified set of high-level actions. However, these action categories do not suffice to describe the full range of maneuvers possible in the complex road networks we encounter in the real world. To combat this deficiency, we propose a new method that leverages the mapped road topology to reason over possible goals and predict the future spatial occupancy of dynamic road actors. We show that our approach is able to accurately predict future occupancy that remains consistent with the mapped lane geometry and naturally captures multi-modality based on the local scene context while also not suffering from the mode collapse problem observed in prior work.


Title: Efficient Uncertainty-aware Decision-making for Automated Driving Using Guided Branching
Abstract: Decision-making in dense traffic scenarios is challenging for automated vehicles (AVs) due to potentially stochastic behaviors of other traffic participants and perception uncertainties (e.g., tracking noise and prediction errors, etc.). Although the partially observable Markov decision process (POMDP) provides a systematic way to incorporate these uncertainties, it quickly becomes computationally intractable when scaled to the real-world large-size problem. In this paper, we present an efficient uncertainty-aware decision-making (EUDM) framework, which generates long-term lateral and longitudinal behaviors in complex driving environments in real-time. The computation complexity is controlled to an appropriate level by two novel techniques, namely, the domain-specific closed-loop policy tree (DCP-Tree) structure and conditional focused branching (CFB) mechanism. The key idea is utilizing domain-specific expert knowledge to guide the branching in both action and intention space. The proposed framework is validated using both onboard sensing data captured by a real vehicle and an interactive multi-agent simulation platform. We also release the code of our framework to accommodate benchmarking.


Title: Adversarial Appearance Learning in Augmented Cityscapes for Pedestrian Recognition in Autonomous Driving
Abstract: In the autonomous driving area synthetic data is crucial for cover specific traffic scenarios which autonomous vehicle must handle. This data commonly introduces domain gap between synthetic and real domains. In this paper we deploy data augmentation to generate custom traffic scenarios with VRUs in order to improve pedestrian recognition. We provide a pipeline for augmentation of the Cityscapes dataset with virtual pedestrians. In order to improve augmentation realism of the pipeline we reveal a novel generative network architecture for adversarial learning of the data-set lighting conditions. We also evaluate our approach on the tasks of semantic and instance segmentation.


Title: Distributed Multi-Target Tracking for Autonomous Vehicle Fleets
Abstract: We present a scalable distributed target tracking algorithm based on the alternating direction method of multipliers that is well-suited for a fleet of autonomous cars communicating over a vehicle-to-vehicle network. Each sensing vehicle communicates with its neighbors to execute iterations of a Kalman filter-like update such that each agent's estimate approximates the centralized maximum a posteriori estimate without requiring the communication of measurements. We show that our method outperforms the Consensus Kalman Filter in recovering the centralized estimate given a fixed communication bandwidth. We also demonstrate the algorithm in a high fidelity urban driving simulator (CARLA), in which 50 autonomous cars connected on a time-varying communication network track the positions and velocities of 50 target vehicles using on-board cameras.


Title: Flying batteries: In-flight battery switching to increase multirotor flight time
Abstract: We present a novel approach to increase the flight time of a multirotor via mid-air docking and in-flight battery switching. A main quadcopter flying using a primary battery has a docking platform attached to it. A `flying battery' - a small quadcopter carrying a secondary battery - is equipped with docking legs that can mate with the main quadcopter's platform. Connectors between the legs and the platform establish electrical contact on docking, and enable power transfer from the secondary battery to the main quadcopter. A custom-designed circuit allows arbitrary switching between the primary battery and secondary battery. We demonstrate the concept in a flight experiment involving repeated docking, battery switching, and undocking. This is shown in the video attachment. The experiment increases the flight time of the main quadcopter by a factor of 4.7× compared to solo flight, and 2.2× a theoretical limit for that given multirotor. Importantly, this increase in flight time is not associated with a large increase in overall vehicle mass or size, leaving the main quadcopter in fundamentally the same safety class.


Title: Tactile sensing based on fingertip suction flow for submerged dexterous manipulation
Abstract: The ocean is a harsh and unstructured environment for robotic systems; high ambient pressures, saltwater corrosion and low-light conditions demand machines with robust electrical and mechanical parts that are able to sense and respond to the environment. Prior work shows that the addition of gentle suction flow to the hands of underwater robots can aid in the handling of objects during mobile manipulation tasks. The current paper explores using this suction flow mechanism as a new modality for tactile sensing; by monitoring orifice occlusion we can get a sense of how objects make contact in the hand. The electronics required for this sensor can be located remotely from the hand and the signal is insensitive to large changes in ambient pressure associated with diving depth. In this study, suction is applied to the fingertips of a two-fingered compliant gripper and suction-based tactile sensing is monitored while an object is pulled out of a pinch grasp. As a proof of concept, a recurrent neural network model was trained to predict external force trends using only the suction signals. This tactile sensing modality holds the potential to enable automated robotic behaviors or to provide operators of remotely operated vehicles with additional feedback in a robust fashion suitable for ocean deployment.


Title: SUMMIT: A Simulator for Urban Driving in Massive Mixed Traffic
Abstract: Autonomous driving in an unregulated urban crowd is an outstanding challenge, especially, in the presence of many aggressive, high-speed traffic participants. This paper presents SUMMIT, a high-fidelity simulator that facilitates the development and testing of crowd-driving algorithms. By leveraging the open-source OpenStreetMap map database and a heterogeneous multi-agent motion prediction model developed in our earlier work, SUMMIT simulates dense, unregulated urban traffic for heterogeneous agents at any worldwide locations that OpenStreetMap supports. SUMMIT is built as an extension of CARLA and inherits from it the physics and visual realism for autonomous driving simulation. SUMMIT supports a wide range of applications, including perception, vehicle control and planning, and end-to-end learning. We provide a context-aware planner together with benchmark scenarios and show that SUMMIT generates complex, realistic traffic behaviors in challenging crowd-driving settings.


Title: 3D Scene Geometry-Aware Constraint for Camera Localization with Deep Learning
Abstract: Camera localization is a fundamental and key component of autonomous driving vehicles and mobile robots to localize themselves globally for further environment perception, path planning and motion control. Recently end-to-end approaches based on convolutional neural network have been much studied to achieve or even exceed 3D-geometry based traditional methods. In this work, we propose a compact network for absolute camera pose regression. Inspired from those traditional methods, a 3D scene geometry-aware constraint is also introduced by exploiting all available information including motion, depth and image contents. We add this constraint as a regularization term to our proposed network by defining a pixel-level photometric loss and an image-level structural similarity loss. To benchmark our method, different challenging scenes including indoor and outdoor environment are tested with our proposed approach and state-of-the-arts. And the experimental results demonstrate significant performance improvement of our method on both prediction accuracy and convergence efficiency.


Title: Balancing Actuation and Computing Energy in Motion Planning
Abstract: We study a novel class of motion planning problems, inspired by emerging low-energy robotic vehicles, such as insect-size flyers, chip-size satellites, and high-endurance autonomous blimps, for which the energy consumed by computing hardware during planning a path can be as large as the energy consumed by actuation hardware during the execution of the same path. We propose a new algorithm, called Compute Energy Included Motion Planning (CEIMP). CEIMP operates similarly to any other anytime planning algorithm, except it stops when it estimates further computing will require more computing energy than potential savings in actuation energy. We show that CEIMP has the same asymptotic computational complexity as existing sampling-based motion planning algorithms, such as PRM*. We also show that CEIMP outperforms the average baseline of using maximum computing resources in realistic computational experiments involving 10 floor plans from MIT buildings. In one representative experiment, CEIMP outperforms the average baseline 90.6% of the time when energy to compute one more second is equal to the energy to move one more meter, and 99.7% of the time when energy to compute one more second is equal to or greater than the energy to move 3 more meters.


Title: Perception-constrained and Motor-level Nonlinear MPC for both Underactuated and Tilted-propeller UAVS
Abstract: In this paper, we present a Perception-constrained Nonlinear Model Predictive Control (NMPC) framework for the real-time control of multi-rotor aerial vehicles. Our formulation considers both constraints from a perceptive sensor and realistic actuator limitations that are the rotor minimum and maximum speeds and accelerations. The formulation is meant to be generic and considers a large range of multi-rotor platforms (such as underactuated quadrotors or tilted-propellers hexarotors) since it does not rely on differential flatness for the dynamical equations, and a broad range of sensors, such as cameras, lidars, etc.... The perceptive constraints are expressed to maintain visibility of a feature point in the sensor's field of view, while performing a reference maneuver. We demonstrate both in simulation and real experiments that our framework is able to exploit the full capabilities of the multi-rotor, to achieve the motion under the aforementioned constraints, and control in real-time the platform at a motor-torque level, avoiding the use of an intermediate unconstrained trajectory tracker.


Title: CMTS: A Conditional Multiple Trajectory Synthesizer for Generating Safety-Critical Driving Scenarios
Abstract: Naturalistic driving trajectory generation is crucial for the development of autonomous driving algorithms. However, most of the data is collected in collision-free scenarios leading to the sparsity of the safety-critical cases. When considering safety, testing algorithms in near-miss scenarios that rarely show up in off-the-shelf datasets and are costly to accumulate is a vital part of the evaluation. As a remedy, we propose a safety-critical data synthesizing framework based on variational Bayesian methods and term it as Conditional Multiple Trajectory Synthesizer (CMTS). We extend a generative model to connect safe and collision driving data by representing their distribution in the latent space and use conditional probability to adapt to different maps. Sampling from the mixed distribution enables us to synthesize the safety-critical data not shown in the safe or collision datasets. Experimental results demonstrate that the generated dataset covers many different realistic scenarios, especially the near-misses. We conclude that the use of data generated by CMTS can improve the accuracy of trajectory predictions and autonomous vehicle safety.


Title: Dynamic Interaction-Aware Scene Understanding for Reinforcement Learning in Autonomous Driving
Abstract: The common pipeline in autonomous driving systems is highly modular and includes a perception component which extracts lists of surrounding objects and passes these lists to a high-level decision component. In this case, leveraging the benefits of deep reinforcement learning for high-level decision making requires special architectures to deal with multiple variable-length sequences of different object types, such as vehicles, lanes or traffic signs. At the same time, the architecture has to be able to cover interactions between traffic participants in order to find the optimal action to be taken. In this work, we propose the novel Deep Scenes architecture, that can learn complex interaction-aware scene representations based on extensions of either 1) Deep Sets or 2) Graph Convolutional Networks. We present the Graph-Q and DeepScene-Q off-policy reinforcement learning algorithms, both outperforming state-ofthe-art methods in evaluations with the publicly available traffic simulator SUMO.


Title: Interacting Vehicle Trajectory Prediction with Convolutional Recurrent Neural Networks
Abstract: Anticipating the future trajectories of surrounding vehicles is a crucial and challenging task in path planning for autonomy. We propose a novel Convolutional Long Short Term Memory (Conv-LSTM) based neural network architecture to predict the future positions of cars using several seconds of historical driving observations. This consists of three modules: 1) Interaction Learning to capture the effect of surrounding cars, 2) Temporal Learning to identify the dependency on past movements and 3) Motion Learning to convert the extracted features from these two modules into future positions. To continuously achieve accurate prediction, we introduce a novel feedback scheme where the current predicted positions of each car are leveraged to update future motion, encapsulating the effect of the surrounding cars. Experiments on two public datasets demonstrate that the proposed methodology can match or outperform the state-of-the-art methods for long-term trajectory prediction.


Title: LOL: Lidar-only Odometry and Localization in 3D point cloud maps*
Abstract: In this paper we deal with the problem of odometry and localization for Lidar-equipped vehicles driving in urban environments, where a premade target map exists to localize against. In our problem formulation, to correct the accumulated drift of the Lidar-only odometry we apply a place recognition method to detect geometrically similar locations between the online 3D point cloud and the a priori offline map. In the proposed system, we integrate a state-of-the-art Lidaronly odometry algorithm with a recently proposed 3D point segment matching method by complementing their advantages. Also, we propose additional enhancements in order to reduce the number of false matches between the online point cloud and the target map, and to refine the position estimation error whenever a good match is detected. We demonstrate the utility of the proposed LOL system on several Kitti datasets of different lengths and environments, where the relocalization accuracy and the precision of the vehicle's trajectory were significantly improved in every case, while still being able to maintain real-time performance.


Title: Set-membership state estimation by solving data association
Abstract: This paper deals with the localization problem of a robot in an environment made of indistinguishable landmarks, and assuming the initial position of the vehicle is unknown. This scenario is typically encountered in underwater applications for which landmarks such as rocks all look alike. Furthermore, the position of the robot may be lost during a diving phase, which obliges us to consider unknown initial position. We propose a deterministic approach to solve simultaneously the problems of data association and state estimation, without combinatorial explosion. The efficiency of the method is shown on an actual experiment involving an underwater robot and sonar data.


Title: Collaborative Multi-Robot Localization in Natural Terrain*
Abstract: This paper presents a novel filter architecture that allows a team of vehicles to collaboratively localize using Terrain Relative Navigation (TRN). The work explores several causes of measurement correlation that preclude the use of traditional estimators, and proposes an estimator structure that eliminates one source of measurement correlation while properly incorporating others through the use of Covariance Intersection. The result is a consistent estimator that is able to augment proven TRN techniques with multi-robot information, significantly improving localization for vehicles in uninformative terrain. The approach is demonstrated using field data from an Autonomous Underwater Vehicle (AUV) navigating with TRN in Monterey Bay and simulated inter-vehicle range measurements. In addition, a Monte Carlo simulation was used to quantify the algorithm's performance on one example mission. Monte Carlo results show that a vehicle operating in uninformative terrain has 62% lower localization error when fusing range measurements to two converged AUVs than it would using standard TRN.


Title: Efficient Large-Scale Multi-Drone Delivery Using Transit Networks
Abstract: We consider the problem of controlling a large fleet of drones to deliver packages simultaneously across broad urban areas. To conserve energy, drones hop between public transit vehicles (e.g., buses and trams). We design a comprehensive algorithmic framework that strives to minimize the maximum time to complete any delivery. We address the multifaceted complexity of the problem through a two-layer approach. First, the upper layer assigns drones to package delivery sequences with a near-optimal polynomial-time task allocation algorithm. Then, the lower layer executes the allocation by periodically routing the fleet over the transit network while employing efficient bounded-suboptimal multi-agent pathfinding techniques tailored to our setting. Experiments demonstrate the efficiency of our approach on settings with up to 200 drones, 5000 packages, and transit networks with up to 8000 stops in San Francisco and Washington DC. Our results show that the framework computes solutions within a few seconds (up to 2 minutes at most) on commodity hardware, and that drones travel up to 450% of their flight range with public transit.


Title: A Novel Calibration Method between a Camera and a 3D LiDAR with Infrared Images
Abstract: Fusions of LiDARs (light detection and ranging) and cameras have been effectively and widely employed in the communities of autonomous vehicles, virtual reality and mobile mapping systems (MMS) for different purposes, such as localization, high definition map or simultaneous location and mapping. However, the extrinsic calibration between a camera and a 3D LiDAR is a fundamental prerequisite to guarantee its performance. Some previous methods are inaccurate, have calibration error that is several times the beam divergence, and often require special calibration objects, thereby limiting their ubiquitous use for calibration. To overcome these shortcomings, we propose a novel and high-accuracy method for the extrinsic calibration between a camera and a 3D LiDAR. Our approach relies on the infrared images from a camera with an infrared filter, and the 2D-3D corresponding points in a scene with the corners of a wall can be extracted to calculate the six extrinsic parameters. Experiments using the Velodyne VLP-16 sensor show that the method can achieve an extrinsic accuracy at the level of the beam divergence, which is fully analyzed and validated from two different aspects. Therefore, the calibration method in this paper is highly accurate, effective and does not require special complicated calibration objects; thus, it meets the requirements of practical applications.


Title: Online Camera-LiDAR Calibration with Sensor Semantic Information
Abstract: As a crucial step of sensor data fusion, sensor calibration plays a vital role in many cutting-edge machine vision applications, such as autonomous vehicles and AR/VR. Existing techniques either require quite amount of manual work and complex settings, or are unrobust and prone to produce suboptimal results. In this paper, we investigate the extrinsic calibration of an RGB camera and a light detection and ranging (LiDAR) sensor, which are two of the most widely used sensors in autonomous vehicles for perceiving the outdoor environment. Specifically, we introduce an online calibration technique that automatically computes the optimal rigid motion transformation between the aforementioned two sensors and maximizes their mutual information of perceived data, without the need of tuning environment settings. By formulating the calibration as an optimization problem with a novel calibration quality metric based on semantic features, we successfully and robustly align pairs of temporally synchronized camera and LiDAR frames in real time. Demonstrated on several autonomous driving tasks, our method outperforms state-of-the-art edge feature based auto-calibration approaches in terms of robustness and accuracy.


Title: Online calibration of exterior orientations of a vehicle-mounted surround-view camera system
Abstract: The increasing availability of surround-view camera systems in passenger vehicles motivates their use as an exterior perception modality for intelligent vehicle behaviour. An important problem within this context is the extrinsic calibration between the cameras, which is challenging due to the often reduced overlap between the fields of view of neighbouring views. Our work is motivated by two insights. First, we argue that the accuracy of vision-based vehicle motion estimation depends crucially on the quality of exterior orientation calibration, while design parameters for camera positions typically provide sufficient accuracy. Second, we demonstrate how planar vehicle motion related direction vectors can be used to accurately identify individual camera-to-vehicle rotations, which are more useful than the commonly and tediously derived camera-to-camera transformations. We present a complete and highly practicable online optimisation strategy to obtain the exterior orientation parameters and conclude with successful tests on simulated, indoor, and large-scale outdoor experiments.


Title: On-board Deep-learning-based Unmanned Aerial Vehicle Fault Cause Detection and Identification
Abstract: With the increase in use of Unmanned Aerial Vehicles (UAVs)/drones, it is important to detect and identify causes of failure in real time for proper recovery from a potential crash-like scenario or post incident forensics analysis. The cause of crash could be either a fault in the sensor/actuator system, a physical damage/attack, or a cyber attack on the drone's software. In this paper, we propose novel architectures based on deep Convolutional and Long Short-Term Memory Neural Networks (CNNs and LSTMs) to detect (via Autoencoder) and classify drone mis-operations based on real-time sensor data. The proposed architectures are able to learn high-level features automatically from the raw sensor data and learn the spatial and temporal dynamics in the sensor data. We validate the proposed deep-learning architectures via simulations and realworld experiments on a drone. Empirical results show that our solution is able to detect (with over 90% accuracy) and classify various types of drone mis-operations (with about 99% accuracy (simulation data) and upto 85% accuracy (experimental data)).


Title: Motion Planning and Task Allocation for a Jumping Rover Team
Abstract: This paper presents a cooperative robotic team composed of unmanned ground vehicles (UGVs) with hybrid operational modes to tackle the multiple traveling salesman problem (mTSP) with obstacles. The hybrid operational modes allow every UGV in the team to not only travel on a ground surface but also jump over obstacles. We name these UGVs jumping rovers. The jumping capability provides a flexible form of locomotion by leaping and landing on top of obstacles instead of navigating around obstacles. To solve the mTSP, an optimal path between any two objective points in an mTSP is determined by the optimized rapidly-exploring random tree method, named RRT*, and is further improved through a refined RRT* algorithm to find a smoother path between targets. We then formulate the mTSP as a mixed-integer linear programming (MILP) problem to search for the most cost-effective combination of paths for multiple UGVs. The effectiveness of the hybrid operational modes and optimized motion with assigned tasks is verified in an indoor, physical experimental environment using the customized jumping rovers.


Title: Nonlinear Vector-Projection Control for Agile Fixed-Wing Unmanned Aerial Vehicles
Abstract: Agile fixed-wing aircraft integrate the efficient, high-speed capabilities of conventional fixed-wing platforms with the extreme maneuverability of rotorcraft. This work presents a nonlinear control strategy that harnesses these capabilities to enable autonomous flight through aggressive, time-constrained, three-dimensional trajectories. The cascaded control structure consists of two parts; an inner attitude control loop developed on the Special Orthornormal group that avoids singularities commonly associated with other parametrizations, and an outer position control loop that jointly determines the thrust command and attitude references by implementing a novel vector-projection algorithm. The objective of the algorithm is to decouple roll from the reference attitude to ensure that thrust and lift forces can always be pointed such that position errors converge to zero. The proposed control system represents a single, unified solution that remains effective throughout the aircraft's flight envelope, including aerobatic operation. Controller performance is verified through simulations and experimental flight tests; results show the unified control scheme is capable of performing a wide range of operations that would normally require multiple, single-purpose controllers, and their associated switching logic.


Title: The Reconfigurable Aerial Robotic Chain: Modeling and Control
Abstract: This paper overviews the system design, modeling and control of the Aerial Robotic Chain. This new design corresponds to a reconfigurable robotic system of systems consisting of multilinked micro aerial vehicles that presents the ability to cross narrow sections, morph its shape, ferry significant payloads, offer the potential of distributed sensing and processing, and enable system extendability. We present the system dynamics for any number of connected aerial vehicles, followed by the controller design involving a model predictive position control loop combined with multiple parallel angular controllers on SO(3). Evaluation studies both in simulation and through experiments based on our ARC-Alpha prototype are depicted and involve coordinated maneuvering and shape configuration to cross narrow windows.


Title: Direct Acceleration Feedback Control of Quadrotor Aerial Vehicles
Abstract: In this paper we propose to control a quadrotor through direct acceleration feedback. The proposed method, while simple in form, alleviates the need for accurate estimation of platform parameters such as mass and propeller effectiveness. In order to use efficaciously the noisy acceleration measurements in direct feedback, we propose a novel regression-based filter that exploits the knowledge on the commanded propeller speeds, and extracts smooth platform acceleration with minimal delay. Our tests show that the controller exhibits a few millimeter error when performing real world tasks with fast changing mass and effectiveness, e.g., in pick and place operation and in turbulent conditions. Finally, we benchmark the direct acceleration controller against the PID strategy and show the clear advantage of using high-frequency and low-latency acceleration measurements directly in the control feedback, especially in the case of low frequency position measurements that are typical for real outdoor conditions.


Title: Trajectory Tracking Nonlinear Model Predictive Control for an Overactuated MAV
Abstract: This work presents a method to control omnidirectional micro aerial vehicles (OMAVs) for the tracking of 6-DoF trajectories in free space. A rigid body model based approach is applied in a receding horizon fashion to generate optimal wrench commands that can be constrained to meet limits given by the mechanical design and actuators of the platform. Allocation of optimal actuator commands is performed in a separate step. A disturbance observer estimates forces and torques that may arise from unmodeled dynamics or external disturbances and fuses them into the optimization to achieve offset-free tracking. Experiments on a fully overactuated MAV show the tracking performance and compare it against a classical PD-based controller.


Title: TUNERCAR: A Superoptimization Toolchain for Autonomous Racing
Abstract: TUNERCAR is a toolchain that jointly optimizes racing strategy, planning methods, control algorithms, and vehicle parameters for an autonomous racecar. In this paper, we detail the target hardware, software, simulators, and systems infrastructure for this toolchain. Our methodology employs a parallel implementation of CMA-ES which enables simulations to proceed 6 times faster than real-world rollouts. We show our approach can reduce the lap times in autonomous racing, given a fixed computational budget. For all tested tracks, our method provides the lowest lap time, and relative improvements in lap time between 7-21%. We demonstrate improvements over a naive random search method with equivalent computational budget of over 15 seconds/lap, and improvements over expert solutions of over 2 seconds/lap. We further compare the performance of our method against hand-tuned solutions submitted by over 30 international teams, comprised of graduate students working in the field of autonomous vehicles. Finally, we discuss the effectiveness of utilizing an online planning mechanism to reduce the reality gap between our simulation and actual tests.


Title: Risk Assessment and Planning with Bidirectional Reachability for Autonomous Driving
Abstract: Risk assessment to quantify the danger associated with taking a certain action is critical to navigating safely through crowded urban environments during autonomous driving. Risk assessment and subsequent planning is usually done by first tracking and predicting trajectories of other agents, such as vehicles and pedestrians, and then choosing an action to avoid future collisions. However, few existing risk assessment algorithms handle occlusion and other sensory limitations effectively. One either assesses the risk in the worst-case scenario and thus makes the ego vehicle overly conservative, or predicts as many hidden agents as possible and thus makes the computation intensive. This paper explores the possibility of efficient risk assessment under occlusion via both forward and backward reachability. The proposed algorithm can not only identify the location of risk-inducing factors, but can also be used during motion planning. The proposed method is evaluated on various four-way highly occluded intersections with up to five other vehicles in the scene. Compared with other risk assessment algorithms, the proposed method shows better efficiency, meaning that the ego vehicle reaches the goal at a higher speed. In addition, it also lowers the median collision rate by 7.5× when compared to state of the art techniques.


Title: Game theoretic decision making based on real sensor data for autonomous vehicles’ maneuvers in high traffic
Abstract: This paper presents an approach for implementing game theoretic decision making in combination with realistic sensory data input so as to allow an autonomous vehicle to perform maneuvers, such as lane change or merge in high traffic scenarios. The main novelty of this work, is the use of realistic sensory data input to obtain the observations as input of an iterative multi-player game in a realistic simulator. The game model allows to anticipate reactions of additional vehicles to the movements of the ego-vehicle without using any specific coordination or vehicle-to-vehicle communication. Moreover, direct information from the simulator, such as position or speed of the vehicles is also avoided.The solution of the game is based on cognitive hierarchy reasoning and it uses Monte Carlo reinforcement learning in order to obtain a near-optimal policy towards a specific goal. Moreover, the game proposed is capable of solving different situations using a single policy. The system has been successfully tested and compared with previous techniques using a realistic hybrid simulator, where the ego-vehicle and its sensors are simulated on a 3D simulator and the additional vehicles' behavior is obtained from a traffic simulator.


Title: Driving in Dense Traffic with Model-Free Reinforcement Learning
Abstract: Traditional planning and control methods could fail to find a feasible trajectory for an autonomous vehicle to execute amongst dense traffic on roads. This is because the obstacle-free volume in spacetime is very small in these scenarios for the vehicle to drive through. However, that does not mean the task is infeasible since human drivers are known to be able to drive amongst dense traffic by leveraging the cooperativeness of other drivers to open a gap. The traditional methods fail to take into account the fact that the actions taken by an agent affect the behaviour of other vehicles on the road. In this work, we rely on the ability of deep reinforcement learning to implicitly model such interactions and learn a continuous control policy over the action space of an autonomous vehicle. The application we consider requires our agent to negotiate and open a gap in the road in order to successfully merge or change lanes. Our policy learns to repeatedly probe into the target road lane while trying to find a safe spot to move in to. We compare against two model-predictive control-based algorithms and show that our policy outperforms them in simulation. As part of this work, we introduce a benchmark for driving in dense traffic for use by the community.


Title: Enhancing Game-Theoretic Autonomous Car Racing Using Control Barrier Functions
Abstract: In this paper, we consider a two-player racing game, where an autonomous ego vehicle has to be controlled to race against an opponent vehicle, which is either autonomous or human-driven. The approach to control the ego vehicle is based on a Sensitivity-ENhanced NAsh equilibrium seeking (SENNA) method, which uses an iterated best response algorithm in order to optimize for a trajectory in a two-car racing game. This method exploits the interactions between the ego and the opponent vehicle that take place through a collision avoidance constraint. This game-theoretic control method hinges on the ego vehicle having an accurate model and correct knowledge of the state of the opponent vehicle. However, when an accurate model for the opponent vehicle is not available, or the estimation of its state is corrupted by noise, the performance of the approach might be compromised. For this reason, we augment the SENNA algorithm by enforcing Permissive RObust SafeTy (PROST) conditions using control barrier functions. The objective is to successfully overtake or to remain in the front of the opponent vehicle, even when the information about the latter is not fully available. The successful synergy between SENNA and PROST-antithetical to the notable rivalry between the two namesake Formula 1 drivers-is demonstrated through extensive simulated experiments.


Title: Analyzing the Suitability of Cost Functions for Explaining and Imitating Human Driving Behavior based on Inverse Reinforcement Learning
Abstract: Autonomous vehicles are sharing the road with human drivers. In order to facilitate interactive driving and cooperative behavior in dense traffic, a thorough understanding and representation of other traffic participants' behavior are necessary. Cost functions (or reward functions) have been widely used to describe the behavior of human drivers since they can not only explicitly incorporate the rationality of human drivers and the theory of mind (TOM), but also share similarity with the motion planning problem of autonomous vehicles. Hence, more human-like driving behavior and comprehensible trajectories can be generated to enable safer interaction and cooperation. However, the selection of cost functions in different driving scenarios is not trivial, and there is no systematic summary and analysis for cost function selection and learning from a variety of driving scenarios. In this work, we aim to investigate to what extent cost functions are suitable for explaining and imitating human driving behavior. Further, we focus on how cost functions differ from each other in different driving scenarios. Towards this goal, we first comprehensively review existing cost function structures in literature. Based on that, we point out required conditions for demonstrations to be suitable for inverse reinforcement learning (IRL). Finally, we use IRL to explore suitable features and learn cost function weights from human driven trajectories in three different scenarios.


Title: Radar-Inertial Ego-Velocity Estimation for Visually Degraded Environments
Abstract: We present an approach for estimating the body-frame velocity of a mobile robot. We combine measurements from a millimeter-wave radar-on-a-chip sensor and an inertial measurement unit (IMU) in a batch optimization over a sliding window of recent measurements. The sensor suite employed is lightweight, low-power, and is invariant to ambient lighting conditions. This makes the proposed approach an attractive solution for platforms with limitations around payload and longevity, such as aerial vehicles conducting autonomous exploration in perceptually degraded operating conditions, including subterranean environments. We compare our radar-inertial velocity estimates to those from a visual-inertial (VI) approach. We show the accuracy of our method is comparable to VI in conditions favorable to VI, and far exceeds the accuracy of VI when conditions deteriorate.


Title: Barefoot Rover: a Sensor-Embedded Rover Wheel Demonstrating In-Situ Engineering and Science Extractions using Machine Learning
Abstract: In this work, we demonstrate an instrumented wheel concept which utilizes a 2D pressure grid, an electrochemical impedance spectroscopy (EIS) sensor and machine learning (ML) to extract meaningful metrics from the interaction between the wheel and surface terrain. These include continuous slip/skid estimation, balance, and sharpness for engineering applications. Estimates of surface hydration, texture, terrain patterns, and regolith physical properties such as cohesion and angle of internal friction are additionally calculated for science applications. Traditional systems rely on post-processing of visual images and vehicle telemetry to estimate these metrics. Through in-situ sensing, these metrics can be calculated in near real time and made available to onboard science and engineering autonomy applications. This work aims to provide a deployable system for future planetary exploration missions to increase science and engineering capabilities through increased knowledge of the terrain.


Title: Online Trajectory Planning for an Industrial Tractor Towing Multiple Full Trailers
Abstract: This paper presents a novel solution for online trajectory planning of a full-size tractor-trailers vehicle composed of a car-like tractor and arbitrary number of passive full trailers. The motion planning problem for such systems was rarely addressed due to the complex nonlinear dynamics. A simulation-based prediction method is proposed to easily handle the complicated nonlinear dynamics and efficiently generate the obstacle-free and dynamically feasible trajectories. The vehicle dynamics model and a two-layer controller are used in the prediction. Implementation results on the real-world full-size industrial tractor-trailers vehicle are presented to validate the performance of the proposed methods.


Title: Slip-Based Nonlinear Recursive Backstepping Path Following Controller for Autonomous Ground Vehicles
Abstract: Path following accuracy and error convergence with graceful motion in vehicle steering control is challenging due to the competing nature of these requirements, especially across a range of operating speeds. This work is founded upon slip-based kinematic and dynamic models, which allow derivation of controllers considering error due to sideslip and the mapping between steering commands and graceful lateral motion. A novel recursive backstepping steering controller is proposed that better couples yaw-rate based path following commands to steering angle and rate. Observer based sideslip estimates are combined with heading error in the kinematic controller to provide feedforward slip compensation. Path following error is compensated by a Variable Structure Controller (VSC) to balance graceful motion, path following error, and robustness. Yaw rate commands are used by a backstepping dynamic controller to generate robust steering commands. A High Gain Observer (HGO) estimates sideslip and yaw rate for output feedback control. Stability analysis is provided and peaking is addressed. Field experimental results evaluate the work and provide comparisons to MPC.


Title: MulRan: Multimodal Range Dataset for Urban Place Recognition
Abstract: This paper introduces a multimodal range dataset namely for radio detection and ranging (radar) and light detection and ranging (LiDAR) specifically targeting the urban environment. By extending our workshop paper [1] to a larger scale, this dataset focuses on the range sensor-based place recognition and provides 6D baseline trajectories of a vehicle for place recognition ground truth. Provided radar data support both raw-level and image-format data, including a set of time-stamped 1D intensity arrays and 360° polar images, respectively. In doing so, we provide flexibility between raw data and image data depending on the purpose of the research. Unlike existing datasets, our focus is at capturing both temporal and structural diversities for range-based place recognition research. For evaluation, we applied and validated that our previous location descriptor and its search algorithm [2] are highly effective for radar place recognition method. Furthermore, the result shows that radar-based place recognition outperforms LiDAR-based one exploiting its longer-range measurements. The dataset is available from https://sites.google.com/view/mulran-pr.


Title: Simulation-Based Reinforcement Learning for Real-World Autonomous Driving
Abstract: We use reinforcement learning in simulation to obtain a driving system controlling a full-size real-world vehicle. The driving policy takes RGB images from a single camera and their semantic segmentation as input. We use mostly synthetic data, with labelled real-world data appearing only in the training of the segmentation network.Using reinforcement learning in simulation and synthetic data is motivated by lowering costs and engineering effort.In real-world experiments we confirm that we achieved successful sim-to-real policy transfer. Based on the extensive evaluation, we analyze how design decisions about perception, control, and training impact the real-world performance.


Title: Analysis and Prediction of Pedestrian Crosswalk Behavior during Automated Vehicle Interactions
Abstract: For safe navigation around pedestrians, automated vehicles (AVs) need to plan their motion by accurately predicting pedestrians' trajectories over long time horizons. Current approaches to AV motion planning around crosswalks predict only for short time horizons (1-2 s) and are based on data from pedestrian interactions with human-driven vehicles (HDVs). In this paper, we develop a hybrid systems model that uses pedestrians' gap acceptance behavior and constant velocity dynamics for long-term pedestrian trajectory prediction when interacting with AVs. Results demonstrate the applicability of the model for long-term (> 5 s) pedestrian trajectory prediction at crosswalks. Further, we compared measures of pedestrian crossing behaviors in the immersive virtual environment (when interacting with AVs) to that in the real world (results of published studies of pedestrians interacting with HDVs), and found similarities between the two. These similarities demonstrate the applicability of the hybrid model of AV interactions developed from an immersive virtual environment (IVE) for real-world scenarios for both AVs and HDVs.


Title: The Oxford Radar RobotCar Dataset: A Radar Extension to the Oxford RobotCar Dataset
Abstract: In this paper we present The Oxford Radar RobotCar Dataset, a new dataset for researching scene understanding using Millimetre-Wave FMCW scanning radar data. The target application is autonomous vehicles where this modality is robust to environmental conditions such as fog, rain, snow, or lens flare, which typically challenge other sensor modalities such as vision and LIDAR.(/P)(P)The data were gathered in January 2019 over thirty-two traversals of a central Oxford route spanning a total of 280 km of urban driving. It encompasses a variety of weather, traffic, and lighting conditions. This 4.7 TB dataset consists of over 240,000 scans from a Navtech CTS350-X radar and 2.4 million scans from two Velodyne HDL-32E 3D LIDARs; along with six cameras, two 2D LIDARs, and a GPS/INS receiver. In addition we release ground truth optimised radar odometry to provide an additional impetus to research in this domain. The full dataset is available for download at: ori.ox.ac.uk/datasets/radar-robotear-dataset.


Title: Multi-modal Experts Network for Autonomous Driving
Abstract: End-to-end learning from sensory data has shown promising results in autonomous driving. While employing many sensors enhances world perception and should lead to more robust and reliable behavior of autonomous vehicles, it is challenging to train and deploy such network and at least two problems are encountered in the considered setting. The first one is the increase of computational complexity with the number of sensing devices. The other is the phenomena of network overfitting to the simplest and most informative input. We address both challenges with a novel, carefully tailored multi-modal experts network architecture and propose a multi-stage training procedure. The network contains a gating mechanism, which selects the most relevant input at each inference time step using a mixed discrete-continuous policy. We demonstrate the plausibility of the proposed approach on our 1/6 scale truck equipped with three cameras and one LiDAR.


Title: CyPhyHouse: A programming, simulation, and deployment toolchain for heterogeneous distributed coordination
Abstract: Programming languages, libraries, and development tools have transformed the application development processes for mobile computing and machine learning. This paper introduces CyPhyHouse-a toolchain that aims to provide similar programming, debugging, and deployment benefits for distributed mobile robotic applications. Users can develop hardware-agnostic, distributed applications using the high-level, event driven Koord programming language, without requiring expertise in controller design or distributed network protocols. The modular, platform-independent middleware of CyPhyHouse implements these functionalities using standard algorithms for path planning (RRT), control (MPC), mutual exclusion, etc. A high-fidelity, scalable, multi-threaded simulator for Koord applications is developed to simulate the same application code for dozens of heterogeneous agents. The same compiled code can also be deployed on heterogeneous mobile platforms. The effectiveness of CyPhyHouse in improving the design cycles is explicitly illustrated in a robotic testbed through development, simulation, and deployment of a distributed task allocation application on in-house ground and aerial vehicles.


Title: Weakly Supervised Silhouette-based Semantic Scene Change Detection
Abstract: This paper presents a novel semantic scene change detection scheme with only weak supervision. A straightforward approach for this task is to train a semantic change detection network directly from a large-scale dataset in an end-to-end manner. However, a specific dataset for this task, which is usually labor-intensive and time-consuming, becomes indispensable. To avoid this problem, we propose to train this kind of network from existing datasets by dividing this task into change detection and semantic extraction. On the other hand, the difference in camera viewpoints, for example, images of the same scene captured from a vehicle-mounted camera at different time points, usually brings a challenge to the change detection task. To address this challenge, we propose a new siamese network structure with the introduction of correlation layer. In addition, we create a publicly available dataset for semantic change detection to evaluate the proposed method. The experimental results verified both the robustness to viewpoint difference in change detection task and the effectiveness for semantic change detection of the proposed networks. Our code and dataset are available at https://github.com/xdspacelab/sscdnet.


Title: Towards Proactive Navigation: A Pedestrian-Vehicle Cooperation Based Behavioral Model
Abstract: Developing autonomous vehicles capable of navigating safely and socially around pedestrians is a major challenge in intelligent transportation. This challenge cannot be met without understanding pedestrians' behavioral response to an autonomous vehicle, and the task of building a clear and quantitative description of the pedestrian to vehicle interaction remains a key milestone in autonomous navigation research. As a step towards safe proactive navigation in a space shared with pedestrians, this work introduces a pedestrian-vehicle interaction behavioral model. The model estimates the pedestrian's cooperation with the vehicle in an interaction scenario by a quantitative time-varying function. Using this cooperation estimation the pedestrian's trajectory is predicted by a cooperation-based trajectory planning model. Both parts of the model are tested and validated using real-life recorded scenarios of pedestrian-vehicle interaction. The model is capable of describing and predicting agents' behaviors when interacting with a vehicle in both lateral and frontal crossing scenarios.


Title: A Linearized Model for an Ornithopter in Gliding Flight: Experiments and Simulations
Abstract: This work studies the accuracy of a simple but effective analytical model for a flapping-wings UAV in longitudinal gliding flight configuration comparing it with experimental results of a real ornithopter. The aerodynamic forces are modeled following the linearized potential theory for a flat plate in gliding configuration, extended to flapping-wing episodes modeled also by the (now unsteady) linear potential theory, which are studied numerically. In the gliding configuration, the model reaches a steady-state descent at given terminal velocity and pitching and gliding angles, governed by the wings and tail position. In the flapping-wing configuration, it is noticed that the vehicle can increase its flight velocity and perform climbing episodes. A realistic simulation tool based on Unreal Engine 4 was developed to visualize the effect of the tail position and flapping frequencies and amplitudes on the ornithopter flight in real time. The paper also includes the experimental validation of the gliding flight and the data has been released for the community.


Title: A ROS Gazebo plugin to simulate ARVA sensors
Abstract: This paper addresses the problem to simulate ARVA sensors using ROS and Gazebo. ARVA is a French acronym which stands for Appareil de Recherche de Victims en Avalanche and represents the forefront technology adopted in Search & Rescue operations to localize victims of avalanches buried under the snow. The aim of this paper is to describe the mathematical and theoretical background of the transceiver, discussing its implementation and integration with ROS allowing researchers to develop faster and smarter Search &Rescue strategies based on ARVA receiver data. To assess the effectiveness of the proposed sensor model, We present a simulation scenario in which an Unmanned Aerial Vehicle equipped with the transceiver sensor performs a basic S&R pattern using the output of ARVA system.


Title: Learn-to-Recover: Retrofitting UAVs with Reinforcement Learning-Assisted Flight Control Under Cyber-Physical Attacks
Abstract: In this paper, we present a generic fault-tolerant control (FTC) strategy via reinforcement learning (RL). We demonstrate the effectiveness of this method on quadcopter unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs). The fault-tolerant control policy is trained to handle actuator and sensor fault/attack. Unlike traditional FTC, this policy does not require fault detection and diagnosis (FDD) nor tailoring the controller for specific attack scenarios. Instead, the policy is running simultaneously alongside the stabilizing controller without the need for on- detection activation. The effectiveness of the policy is compared with traditional active and passive FTC strategies against actuator and sensor faults. We compare their performance in position control tasks via simulation and experiments on quadcopters. The result shows that the strategy can effectively tolerate different types of attacks/faults and maintain the vehicle's position, outperforming the other two methods.


Title: The Tiercel: A novel autonomous micro aerial vehicle that can map the environment by flying into obstacles
Abstract: Autonomous flight through unknown environments in the presence of obstacles is a challenging problem for micro aerial vehicles (MAVs). A majority of the current state-of-art research assumes obstacles as opaque objects that can be easily sensed by optical sensors such as cameras or LiDARs. However in indoor environments with glass walls and windows, or scenarios with smoke and dust, robots (even birds) have a difficult time navigating through the unknown space.In this paper, we present the design of a new class of micro aerial vehicles that achieves autonomous navigation and are robust to collisions. In particular, we present the Tiercel MAV: a small, agile, light weight and collision-resilient robot powered by a cellphone grade CPU. Our design exploits contact to infer the presence of transparent or reflective obstacles like glass walls, integrating touch with visual perception for SLAM. The Tiercel is able to localize using visual-inertial odometry (VIO) running on board the robot with a single downward facing fisheye camera and an IMU. We show how our collision detector design and experimental set up enable us to characterize the impact of collisions on VIO. We further develop a planning strategy to enable the Tiercel to fly autonomously in an unknown space, sustaining collisions and creating a 2D map of the environment. Finally we demonstrate a swarm of three autonomous Tiercel robots safely navigating and colliding through an obstacle field to reach their objectives.


Title: Adaptive Control of Variable-Pitch Propellers: Pursuing Minimum-Effort Operation
Abstract: As Unmanned Aerial Vehicles (UAVs) become more commonly used in industry, their performance will continue to be challenged. A performance bottleneck that is crucial to overcome is the design of electric propulsion systems for UAVs that operate in disparate flight modes (e.g., hovering and forward-moving flight). While flight mode dissimilarity presents a fundamental design challenge for fixed-geometry propulsion systems, variable-geometry systems such as the Variable Pitch Propeller (VPP) ones are able to provide superior propulsion performance across a wide range of flight modes. This work builds on previous work by the authors and presents a VPP system control and estimation framework for safe, near-minimum-electrical-effort propulsion system behavior across the whole operation state space of any UAV. Multiple simulated validations are presented to support the feasibility of the approach.


Title: Predicting optimal value functions by interpolating reward functions in scalarized multi-objective reinforcement learning
Abstract: A common approach for defining a reward function for multi-objective reinforcement learning (MORL) problems is the weighted sum of the multiple objectives. The weights are then treated as design parameters dependent on the expertise (and preference) of the person performing the learning, with the typical result that a new solution is required for any change in these settings. This paper investigates the relationship between the reward function and the optimal value function for MORL; specifically addressing the question of how to approximate the optimal value function well beyond the set of weights for which the optimization problem was actually solved, thereby avoiding the need to recompute for any particular choice. We prove that the value function transforms smoothly given a transformation of weights of the reward function (and thus a smooth interpolation in the policy space). A Gaussian process is used to obtain a smooth interpolation over the reward function weights of the optimal value function for three well-known examples: Gridworld, Objectworld and Pendulum. The results show that the interpolation can provide robust values for sample states and actions in both discrete and continuous domain problems. Significant advantages arise from utilizing this interpolation technique in the domain of autonomous vehicles: easy, instant adaptation of user preferences while driving and true randomization of obstacle vehicle behavior preferences during training.


Title: Monitoring Over the Long Term: Intermittent Deployment and Sensing Strategies for Multi-Robot Teams
Abstract: In this paper, we formulate and solve the intermittent deployment problem, which yields strategies that couple when heterogeneous robots should sense an environmental process, with where a deployed team should sense in the environment. As a motivation, suppose that a spatiotemporal process is slowly evolving and must be monitored by a multi-robot team, e.g., unmanned aerial vehicles monitoring pasturelands in a precision agriculture context. In such a case, an intermittent deployment strategy is necessary as persistent deployment or monitoring is not cost-efficient for a slowly evolving process. At the same time, the problem of where to sense once deployed must be solved as process observations yield useful feedback for determining effective future deployment and monitoring decisions. In this context, we model the environmental process to be monitored as a spatiotemporal Gaussian process with mutual information as a criterion to measure our understanding of the environment. To make the sensing resource-efficient, we demonstrate how to use matroid constraints to impose a diverse set of homogeneous and heterogeneous constraints. In addition, to reflect the cost-sensitive nature of real-world applications, we apply budgets on the cost of deployed heterogeneous robot teams. To solve the resulting problem, we exploit the theories of submodular optimization and matroids and present a greedy algorithm with bounds on sub-optimality. Finally, Monte Carlo simulations demonstrate the correctness of the proposed method.


Title: LiStereo: Generate Dense Depth Maps from LIDAR and Stereo Imagery
Abstract: An accurate depth map of the environment is critical to the safe operation of autonomous robots and vehicles. Currently, either light detection and ranging (LIDAR) or stereo matching algorithms are used to acquire such depth information. However, a high-resolution LIDAR is expensive and produces sparse depth map at large range; stereo matching algorithms are able to generate denser depth maps but are typically less accurate than LIDAR at long range. This paper combines these approaches together to generate high-quality dense depth maps. Unlike previous approaches that are trained using ground-truth labels, the proposed model adopts a self-supervised training process. Experiments show that the proposed method is able to generate high-quality dense depth maps and performs robustly even with low-resolution inputs. This shows the potential to reduce the cost by using LIDARs with lower resolution in concert with stereo systems while maintaining high resolution.


Title: Versatile Trajectory Optimization Using a LCP Wheel Model for Dynamic Vehicle Maneuvers
Abstract: Car models have been extensively studied at varying levels of abstraction, and planning and executing motions under ideal conditions is well researched and understood. For more aggressive maneuvers, for example when drifting or skidding, empirical and/or discontinuous friction models have been used to explain and approximate real world contact behavior. Separately, contact dynamics have been extensively studied by the robotics community, often times formulated as a linear complementarity problem (LCP) for dynamic multi-rigid-body contact problems with Coulomb friction cone approximations. In this work, we explore the validity of using such an anisotropic Coulomb friction cone to model tire dynamics to plan for vehicle motion, and present a versatile trajectory optimization framework using this model that can both avoid and/or exploit wheel skidding, depending on the cost function and planning horizon. Experimental evidence of planning and executing dynamic drift parking is shown on a 1/16 scale model car.


Title: Quantifying Good Seamanship For Autonomous Surface Vessel Performance Evaluation
Abstract: The current state-of-the-art for testing and evaluation of autonomous surface vehicle (ASV) decision-making is currently limited to one-versus-one vessel interactions by determining compliance with the International Regulations for Prevention of Collisions at Sea, referred to as COLREGS. Strict measurement of COLREGS compliance, however, loses value in multi-vessel encounters, as there can be conflicting rules which make determining compliance extremely subjective. This work proposes several performance metrics to evaluate ASV decision-making based on the concept of "good seamanship," a practice which generalizes to multi-vessel encounters. Methodology for quantifying good seamanship is presented based on the criteria of reducing the overall collision risk of the situation and taking early, appropriate actions. Case study simulation results are presented to showcase the seamanship performance criteria against different ASV planning strategies.


Title: Minimal 3D Dubins Path with Bounded Curvature and Pitch Angle
Abstract: In this paper, we address the problem of finding cost-efficient three-dimensional paths that satisfy the maximum allowed curvature and the pitch angle of the vehicle. For any given initial and final configurations, the problem is decoupled into finding the horizontal and vertical parts of the path separately. Although the individual paths are modeled as two-dimensional Dubins curves using closed-form solutions, the final 3D path is constructed using the proposed local optimization to find a cost-efficient solution. Moreover, based on the decoupled approach, we provide a lower bound estimation of the optimal path that enables us to determine the quality of the found heuristic solution. The proposed solution has been evaluated using existing benchmark instances and compared with state-of-the-art approaches. Based on the reported results and lower bounds, the proposed approach provides paths close to the optimal solution while the computational requirements are in hundreds of microseconds. Besides, the proposed method provides paths with fewer turns than others, which make them easier to be followed by the vehicle's controller.


Title: AU-AIR: A Multi-modal Unmanned Aerial Vehicle Dataset for Low Altitude Traffic Surveillance
Abstract: Unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs) with mounted cameras have the advantage of capturing aerial (bird-view) images. The availability of aerial visual data and the recent advances in object detection algorithms led the computer vision community to focus on object detection tasks on aerial images. As a result of this, several aerial datasets have been introduced, including visual data with object annotations. UAVs are used solely as flying-cameras in these datasets, discarding different data types regarding the flight (e.g., time, location, internal sensors). In this work, we propose a multi-purpose aerial dataset (AU-AIR) that has multi-modal sensor data (i.e., visual, time, location, altitude, IMU, velocity) collected in real-world outdoor environments. The AU-AIR dataset includes meta-data for extracted frames (i.e., bounding box annotations for traffic-related object category) from recorded RGB videos. Moreover, we emphasize the differences between natural and aerial images in the context of object detection task. For this end, we train and test mobile object detectors (including YOLOv3-Tiny and MobileNetv2-SSDLite) on the AU-AIR dataset, which are applicable for real-time object detection using on-board computers with UAVs. Since our dataset has diversity in recorded data types, it contributes to filling the gap between computer vision and robotics. The dataset is available at https://bozcani.github.io/auairdataset.


Title: SHIFT: Selective Heading Image for Translation An onboard monocular optical flow estimator for fast constantly rotating UAVs
Abstract: Pose estimation is of paramount importance for flight control as well as localization and navigation of Unmanned Aerial Vehicles (UAVs) to enable autonomous operations. In environments without GPS, such estimation can only be determined using onboard sensors; optical flow using a monocular camera is a popular approach. Monocopters are a class of nature inspired UAVs known as free rotors where their design and flight dynamics are inspired by the falling samara seed. With a constantly rotating body frame, free rotors introduces some unique challenges for visual perception required during optical flow sensing. This paper addresses these problems with the introduction of SHIFT (Selective Heading Image for Translation) that selects optimal images for determining translation with optical flow. It achieves this by decoupling rotation vectors about the optical axis from translation vectors in a flow field through the separate tracking of orientation and position using an Unscented Kalman Filter with phase correlation in the log-polar and spatial domain. The experiments show that SHIFT's estimation in orientation is stable even under sinusoidal excitation with a median absolute percentage errors of less than 1%. It is able to track position and orientation of a UAV accurately.


Title: Nonlinear MPC with Motor Failure Identification and Recovery for Safe and Aggressive Multicopter Flight
Abstract: Safe and precise reference tracking is a crucial characteristic of Micro Aerial Vehicles (MAVs) that have to operate under the influence of external disturbances in cluttered environments. In this paper, we present a Nonlinear Model Predictive Control (NMPC) that exploits the fully physics based non-linear dynamics of the system. We furthermore show how the moment and thrust control inputs can be transformed into feasible actuator commands. In order to guarantee safe operation despite potential loss of a motor under which we show our system keeps operating safely, we developed an Extended Kalman Filter (EKF) based motor failure identification algorithm. We verify the effectiveness of the developed pipeline in flight experiments with and without motor failures.


Title: Using multiple short hops for multicopter navigation with only inertial sensors
Abstract: In certain challenging environments, such as inside buildings on fire, the main sensors (e.g. cameras, LiDARs and GPS systems) used for multicopter localization can become unavailable. Direct integration of the inertial navigation sensors (the accelerometer and rate gyroscope), is however unaffected by external disturbances, but the rapid error accumulation quickly makes a naive application of such a strategy feasible only for very short durations. In this work we propose a motion strategy for reducing the inertial navigation state estimation error of multicopters. The proposed strategy breaks a long duration flight into multiple short duration hops between which the vehicle remains stationary on the ground. When the vehicle is stationary, zero-velocity pseudo-measurements are introduced to an extended Kalman Filter to reduce the state estimation error. We perform experiments for closed-loop control of a multicopter for evaluation. The mean absolute position estimation error was 3.4% over a total flight distance of 5m in the experiments. The results showed a 80% reduction compared to the standard inertial navigation method without using this strategy. In addition, an additional experiment with total flight distance of 10m is conducted to demonstrate the ability of this method to navigate a multicopter in real-world environment. The final trajectory tracking error was 3% of the total flight distance.


Title: A Feature-Based Underwater Path Planning Approach using Multiple Perspective Prior Maps
Abstract: This paper presents a path planning methodology which enables Autonomous Underwater Vehicles (AUVs) to navigate in shallow complex environments such as coral reefs. The approach leverages prior information from an aerial photographic survey, and derived bathymetric information of the corresponding area. From these prior maps, a set of features is obtained which define an expected arrangement of objects and bathymetry likely to be perceived by the AUV when underwater. A navigation graph is then constructed by predicting the arrangement of features visible from a set of test points within the prior, which allows the calculation of the shortest paths from any pair of start and destination points. A maximum likelihood function is defined which allows the AUV to match its observations to the navigation graph as it undertakes its mission. To improve robustness, the history of observed features are retained to facilitate possible recovery from non-detectable or misclassified objects. The approach is evaluated using a photo-realistic simulated environment, and results illustrate the merits of the approach even when only a relatively small number of features can be identified from the prior map.


Title: Motion Estimation in Occupancy Grid Maps in Stationary Settings Using Recurrent Neural Networks
Abstract: In this work, we tackle the problem of modeling the vehicle environment as dynamic occupancy grid map in complex urban scenarios using recurrent neural networks. Dynamic occupancy grid maps represent the scene in a bird's eye view, where each grid cell contains the occupancy prob-ability and the two dimensional velocity. As input data, our approach relies on measurement grid maps, which contain occupancy probabilities, generated with lidar measurements. Given this configuration, we propose a recurrent neural net-work architecture to predict a dynamic occupancy grid map, i.e. filtered occupancy and velocity of each cell, by using a sequence of measurement grid maps. Our network architecture contains convolutional long-short term memories in order to sequentially process the input, makes use of spatial context, and captures motion. In the evaluation, we quantify improvements in estimating the velocity of braking and turning vehicles compared to the state-of-the-art. Additionally, we demonstrate that our approach provides more consistent velocity estimates for dynamic objects, as well as, less erroneous velocity estimates in static area.


Title: Least-squares Optimal Relative Planar Motion for Vehicle-mounted Cameras
Abstract: A new closed-form solver is proposed minimizing the algebraic error optimally, in the least squares sense, to estimate the relative planar motion of two calibrated cameras. The main objective is to solve the over-determined case, i.e., when a larger-than-minimal sample of point correspondences is given - thus, estimating the motion from at least three correspondences. The algorithm requires the camera movement to be constrained to a plane, e.g. mounted to a vehicle, and the image plane to be orthogonal to the ground.1 The solver obtains the motion parameters as the roots of a 6th degree polynomial. It is validated both in synthetic experiments and on publicly available real-world datasets that using the proposed solver leads to results superior to the state-of-the-art in terms of geometric accuracy with no noticeable deterioration in the processing time.


Title: Relative planar motion for vehicle-mounted cameras from a single affine correspondence
Abstract: Two solvers are proposed for estimating the extrinsic camera parameters from a single affine correspondence assuming general planar motion. In this case, the camera movement is constrained to a plane and the image plane is orthogonal to the ground. The algorithms do not assume other constraints, e.g. the non-holonomic one, to hold. A new minimal solver is proposed for the semi-calibrated case, i.e. the camera parameters are known except a common focal length. Another method is proposed for the fully calibrated case. Due to requiring a single correspondence, robust estimation, e.g. histogram voting, leads to a fast and accurate procedure. The proposed methods are tested in our synthetic environment and on publicly available real datasets consisting of videos through tens of kilometers. They are superior to the state-of-the-art both in terms of accuracy and processing time.


Title: Decentralized Visual-Inertial-UWB Fusion for Relative State Estimation of Aerial Swarm
Abstract: The collaboration of unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs) has become a popular research topic for its practicability in multiple scenarios. The collaboration of multiple UAVs, which is also known as aerial swarm is a highly complex system, which still lacks a state-of-art decentralized relative state estimation method. In this paper, we present a novel fully decentralized visual-inertial-UWB fusion framework for relative state estimation and demonstrate the practicability by performing extensive aerial swarm flight experiments. The comparison result with ground truth data from the motion capture system shows the centimeter-level precision which outperforms all the Ultra-WideBand (UWB) and even vision based method. The system is not limited by the field of view (FoV) of the camera or Global Positioning System (GPS), meanwhile on account of its estimation consistency, we believe that the proposed relative state estimation framework has the potential to be prevalently adopted by aerial swarm applications in different scenarios in multiple scales.


Title: Anti-Jackknifing Control of Tractor-Trailer Vehicles via Intrinsically Stable MPC
Abstract: It is common knowledge that tractor-trailer vehicles are affected by jackknifing, a phenomenon that consists in the divergence of the trailer hitch angle and ultimately causes the vehicle to fold up. For the case of backwards motion, in which jackknifing can also occur at low speeds, we present a control method that drives the vehicle along a reference Cartesian trajectory while avoiding the divergence of the hitch angle. In particular, a feedback control law is obtained by combining two actions: a tracking term, computed using input-output linearization, and a corrective term, generated via IS-MPC, an intrinsically stable MPC scheme which is effective for stable inversion of nonminimum-phase systems. The proposed method has been verified in simulation and experimentally validated on a purposely built prototype.


Title: On sensing-aware model predictive path-following control for a reversing general 2-trailer with a car-like tractor
Abstract: The design of reliable path-following controllers is a key ingredient for successful deployment of self-driving vehicles. This controller-design problem is especially challenging for a general 2-trailer with a car-like tractor due to the vehicle's structurally unstable joint-angle kinematics in backward motion and the car-like tractor's curvature limitations which can cause the vehicle segments to fold and enter a jackknife state. Furthermore, advanced sensors with a limited field of view have been proposed to solve the joint-angle estimation problem online, which introduce additional restrictions on which vehicle states that can be reliably estimated. To incorporate these restrictions at the level of control, a model predictive path-following controller is proposed. By taking the vehicle's physical and sensing limitations into account, it is shown in real-world experiments that the performance of the proposed path-following controller in terms of suppressing disturbances and recovering from non-trivial initial states is significantly improved compared to a previously proposed solution where the constraints have been neglected.


Title: LINS: A Lidar-Inertial State Estimator for Robust and Efficient Navigation
Abstract: We present LINS, a lightweight lidar-inertial state estimator, for real-time ego-motion estimation. The proposed method enables robust and efficient navigation for ground vehicles in challenging environments, such as feature-less scenes, via fusing a 6-axis IMU and a 3D lidar in a tightly-coupled scheme. An iterated error-state Kalman filter (ESKF) is designed to correct the estimated state recursively by generating new feature correspondences in each iteration, and to keep the system computationally tractable. Moreover, we use a robocentric formulation that represents the state in a moving local frame in order to prevent filter divergence in a long run. To validate robustness and generalizability, extensive experiments are performed in various scenarios. Experimental results indicate that LINS offers comparable performance with the state-of-the-art lidar-inertial odometry in terms of stability and accuracy and has order-of-magnitude improvement in speed.


Title: Interaction Graphs for Object Importance Estimation in On-road Driving Videos
Abstract: A vehicle driving along the road is surrounded by many objects, but only a small subset of them influence the driver's decisions and actions. Learning to estimate the importance of each object on the driver's real-time decision-making may help better understand human driving behavior and lead to more reliable autonomous driving systems. Solving this problem requires models that understand the interactions between the ego-vehicle and the surrounding objects. However, interactions among other objects in the scene can potentially also be very helpful, e.g., a pedestrian beginning to cross the road between the ego-vehicle and the car in front will make the car in front less important. We propose a novel framework for object importance estimation using an interaction graph, in which the features of each object node are updated by interacting with others through graph convolution. Experiments show that our model outperforms state-of-the-art baselines with much less input and pre-processing.


Title: Enhanced Teleoperation Using Autocomplete
Abstract: Controlling and manning robots from a remote location is difficult because of the limitations one faces in perception and available degrees of actuation. Although humans can become skilled teleoperators, the amount of training time required to acquire such skills is typically very high. In this paper, we propose a novel solution (named Autocomplete) to aid novice teleoperators in manning robots adroitly. At the input side, Autocomplete relies on machine learning to detect and categorize human inputs as one from a group of motion primitives. Once a desired motion is recognized, at the actuation side an automated command replaces the human input in performing the desired action. So far, Autocomplete can recognize and synthesize lines, arcs, full circles, 3-D helices, and sine trajectories. Autocomplete was tested in simulation on the teleoperation of an unmanned aerial vehicle, and results demonstrate the advantages of the proposed solution versus manual steering.


Title: Strategy for automated dense parking: how to navigate in narrow lanes*
Abstract: This paper presents the architecture of a high- density parking solution based on car-like robots specifically designed to move cars. The main difficulty is to park the vehicles close to one another which implies hard constraints on the robot motion and localization. In particular, this paper focuses on navigation in narrow lanes. We propose a Lyapunov- based control strategy that has been derived after expressing the problem in a Configuration Space formulation. The current solution has been implemented and tested on Stanley Robotics' robots and has been running in production for several months. Thanks to the Configuration Space formulation, we are able to guarantee the obstacles' integrity. Moreover, a method for calibrating the GPS orientation with a high-precision is derived from the present control strategy.


Title: Multimodal Trajectory Predictions for Urban Environments Using Geometric Relationships between a Vehicle and Lanes
Abstract: Implementation of safe and efficient autonomous driving systems requires accurate prediction of the long-term trajectories of surrounding vehicles. High uncertainty in traffic behavior makes it difficult to predict trajectories in urban environments, which have various road geometries. To over-come this problem, we propose a method called lane-based multimodal prediction network (LAMP-Net), which can handle arbitrary shapes and numbers of traffic lanes and predict both the future trajectory along each lane and the probability of each lane being selected. A vector map is used to define the lane geometry and a novel lane feature is introduced to represent the generalized geometric relationships between the vehicle state and lanes. Our network takes this feature as the input and is trained to be versatile for arbitrarily shaped lanes. Moreover, we introduce a vehicle motion model constraint to our network. Our prediction method combined with the constraint significantly enhances prediction accuracy. We evaluate the prediction performance on two datasets which contain a wide variety of real-world traffic scenarios. Experimental results show that our proposed LAMP-Net outperforms state-of-the-art methods.


Title: Towards Adaptive Benthic Habitat Mapping
Abstract: Autonomous Underwater Vehicles (AUVs) are increasingly being used to support scientific research and monitoring studies. One such application is in benthic habitat mapping where these vehicles collect seafloor imagery that complements broadscale bathymetric data collected using sonar. Using these two data sources, the relationship between remotely-sensed acoustic data and the sampled imagery can be learned, creating a habitat model. As the areas to be mapped are often very large and AUV systems collecting seafloor imagery can only sample from a small portion of the survey area, the information gathered should be maximised for each deployment. This paper illustrates how the habitat models themselves can be used to plan more efficient AUV surveys by identifying where to collect further samples in order to most improve the habitat model. A Bayesian neural network is used to predict visually-derived habitat classes when given broad-scale bathymetric data. This network can also estimate the uncertainty associated with a prediction, which can be deconstructed into its aleatoric (data) and epistemic (model) components. We demonstrate how these structured uncertainty estimates can be utilised to improve the model with fewer samples. Such adaptive approaches to benthic surveys have the potential to reduce costs by prioritizing further sampling efforts. We illustrate the effectiveness of the proposed approach using data collected by an AUV on offshore reefs in Tasmania, Australia.


Title: Fault tolerance analysis of a hexarotor with reconfigurable tilted rotors
Abstract: Tilted rotors in multirotor vehicles have shown to be useful for different practical reasons. For instance, increasing yaw maneuverability or enabling full position and attitude control of hexarotor vehicles. It has also been proven that a hexagon-shaped multirotor is capable of complete attitude and altitude control under failures of one of its rotors. However, when a rotor fails, the torque that can be reached in the worst- case direction decreases considerably.This work proposes to actively change the tilt angle of the rotors when a failure occurs. This rotor reconfiguration increases the maximum torque that can be achieved in the most stressful direction, reducing maneuverability limitations. Experimental validations are shown, where the proposed reconfigurable tilted rotor is used in order to control a hexarotor vehicle when a failure appears mid-flight. The impact of the delay in the reconfiguration when a failure occurs is also addressed.


Title: Reliability Validation of Learning Enabled Vehicle Tracking
Abstract: This paper studies the reliability of a real-world learning-enabled system, which conducts dynamic vehicle tracking based on a high-resolution wide-area motion imagery input. The system consists of multiple neural network components - to process the imagery inputs - and multiple symbolic (Kalman filter) components - to analyse the processed information for vehicle tracking. It is known that neural networks suffer from adversarial examples, which make them lack robustness. However, it is unclear if and how the adversarial examples over learning components can affect the overall system-level reliability. By integrating a coverage-guided neural network testing tool, DeepConcolic, with the vehicle tracking system, we found that (1) the overall system can be resilient to some adversarial examples thanks to the existence of other components, and (2) the overall system presents an extra level of uncertainty which cannot be determined by analysing the deep learning components only. This research suggests the need for novel verification and validation methods for learning-enabled systems.


Title: A water-obstacle separation and refinement network for unmanned surface vehicles
Abstract: Obstacle detection by semantic segmentation shows a great promise for autonomous navigation in unmanned surface vehicles (USV). However, existing methods suffer from poor estimation of the water edge in presence of visual ambiguities, poor detection of small obstacles and high false-positive rate on water reflections and wakes. We propose a new deep encoder-decoder architecture, a water-obstacle separation and refinement network (WaSR), to address these issues. Detection and water edge accuracy are improved by a novel decoder that gradually fuses inertial information from inertial measurement unit (IMU) with the visual features from the encoder. In addition, a novel loss function is designed to increase the separation between water and obstacle features early on in the network. Subsequently, the capacity of the remaining layers in the decoder is better utilised, leading to a significant reduction in false positives and increased true positives. Experimental results show that WaSR outperforms the current state-of-the-art by a large margin, yielding a 14% increase in F-measure over the second-best method.


Title: Any Motion Detector: Learning Class-agnostic Scene Dynamics from a Sequence of LiDAR Point Clouds
Abstract: Object detection and motion parameters estimation are crucial tasks for self-driving vehicle safe navigation in a complex urban environment. In this work we propose a novel real-time approach of temporal context aggregation for motion detection and motion parameters estimation based on 3D point cloud sequence. We introduce an ego-motion compensation layer to achieve real-time inference with performance comparable to a naive odometric transform of the original point cloud sequence. Not only is the proposed architecture capable of estimating the motion of common road participants like vehicles or pedestrians but also generalizes to other object categories which are not present in training data. We also conduct an in-deep analysis of different temporal context aggregation strategies such as recurrent cells and 3D convolutions. Finally, we provide comparison results of our state-of-the-art model with existing solutions on KITTI Scene Flow dataset.


Title: Fast Frontier-based Information-driven Autonomous Exploration with an MAV
Abstract: Exploration and collision-free navigation through an unknown environment is a fundamental task for autonomous robots. In this paper, a novel exploration strategy for Micro Aerial Vehicles (MAVs) is presented. The goal of the exploration strategy is the reduction of map entropy regarding occupancy probabilities, which is reflected in a utility function to be maximised. We achieve fast and efficient exploration performance with tight integration between our octree-based occupancy mapping approach, frontier extraction, and motion planning-as a hybrid between frontier-based and sampling-based exploration methods. The computationally expensive frontier clustering employed in classic frontier-based exploration is avoided by exploiting the implicit grouping of frontier voxels in the underlying octree map representation. Candidate next-views are sampled from the map frontiers and are evaluated using a utility function combining map entropy and travel time, where the former is computed efficiently using sparse raycasting. These optimisations along with the targeted exploration of frontier-based methods result in a fast and computationally efficient exploration planner. The proposed method is evaluated using both simulated and real-world experiments, demonstrating clear advantages over state-of-the-art approaches.


Title: Dynamic Landing of an Autonomous Quadrotor on a Moving Platform in Turbulent Wind Conditions
Abstract: Autonomous landing on a moving platform presents unique challenges for multirotor vehicles, including the need to accurately localize the platform, fast trajectory planning, and precise/robust control. Previous works studied this problem but most lack explicit consideration of the wind disturbance, which typically leads to slow descents onto the platform. This work presents a fully autonomous vision-based system that addresses these limitations by tightly coupling the localization, planning, and control, thereby enabling fast and accurate landing on a moving platform. The platform's position, orientation, and velocity are estimated by an extended Kalman filter using simulated GPS measurements when the quadrotor-platform distance is large, and by a visual fiducial system when the platform is nearby. The landing trajectory is computed online using receding horizon control and is followed by a boundary layer sliding controller that provides tracking performance guarantees in the presence of unknown, but bounded, disturbances. To improve the performance, the characteristics of the turbulent conditions are accounted for in the controller. The landing trajectory is fast, direct, and does not require hovering over the platform, as is typical of most stateof-the-art approaches. Simulations and hardware experiments are presented to validate the robustness of the approach.


Title: Direct NMPC for Post-Stall Motion Planning with Fixed-Wing UAVs
Abstract: Fixed-wing unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs) offer significant performance advantages over rotary-wing UAVs in terms of speed, endurance, and efficiency. However, these vehicles have traditionally been severely limited with regards to maneuverability. In this paper, we present a nonlinear control approach for enabling aerobatic fixed-wing UAVs to maneuver in constrained spaces. Our approach utilizes full-state direct trajectory optimization and a minimalistic, but representative, nonlinear aircraft model to plan aggressive fixed-wing trajectories in real-time at 5 Hz across high angles-of-attack. Randomized motion planning is used to avoid local minima and local-linear feedback is used to compensate for model inaccuracies between updates. We demonstrate our method in hardware and show that both local-linear feedback and re-planning are necessary for successful navigation of a complex environment in the presence of model uncertainty.


Title: Multi-Head Attention for Multi-Modal Joint Vehicle Motion Forecasting
Abstract: This paper presents a novel vehicle motion forecasting method based on multi-head attention. It produces joint forecasts for all vehicles on a road scene as sequences of multi-modal probability density functions of their positions. Its architecture uses multi-head attention to account for interactions between all vehicles, and long short-term memory layers for encoding and forecasting. It relies solely on vehicle position tracks, does not need maneuver definitions, and does not rasterize the scene as a spatial grid. This allows it to be more versatile than similar model while combining many forecasting capabilities, namely joint forecast with interactions, uncertainty estimation, and multi-modality. The resulting prediction likelihood outperforms state-of-the-art models on the same dataset.


Title: Training-Set Distillation for Real-Time UAV Object Tracking
Abstract: Correlation filter (CF) has recently exhibited promising performance in visual object tracking for unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV). Such online learning method heavily depends on the quality of the training-set, yet complicated aerial scenarios like occlusion or out of view can reduce its reliability. In this work, a novel time slot-based distillation approach is proposed to efficiently and effectively optimize the training-set's quality on the fly. A cooperative energy minimization function is established to score the historical samples adaptively. To accelerate the scoring process, frames with high confident tracking results are employed as the keyframes to divide the tracking process into multiple time slots. After the establishment of a new slot, the weighted fusion of the previous samples generates one key-sample, in order to reduce the number of samples to be scored. Besides, when the current time slot exceeds the maximum frame number, which can be scored, the sample with the lowest score will be discarded. Consequently, the training-set can be efficiently and reliably distilled. Comprehensive tests on two well-known UAV benchmarks prove the effectiveness of our method with real-time speed on single CPU.


Title: Local Obstacle-Skirting Path Planning for a Fast Bi-steerable Rover using Bézier Curves
Abstract: This paper focuses on local path planning for obstacle avoidance tasks dedicated to off-road mobile robots. This approach calculates a new local path for the vehicle using a set of cubic Bezier curves once the safety distance is not respected; otherwise, the vehicle follows the global reference path which is defined off-line. Two basic steps are used to determine this new path. Firstly, some significant points that should belong to the planned path are extracted on-line according to the obstacle's sizes and the current state of the vehicle, these points are approved as waypoints. Secondly, on-line cubic Bezier curves are computed to create a smooth path for these points such that the safety and lateral stability of the vehicle are ensured (i.e., preventing huge curvatures and wide-variation in steering angles). This path will be used as a reference to be performed by the vehicle using a constrained model predictive control. The validation of our navigation strategy is performed via numerical simulations and experiments using a fast double-steering rover.


Title: Safety-Critical Rapid Aerial Exploration of Unknown Environments
Abstract: This paper details a novel approach to collision avoidance for aerial vehicles that enables high-speed flight in uncertain environments. This framework is applied at the controller level and provides safety regardless of the planner that is used. The method is shown to be robust to state uncertainty and disturbances, and is computed entirely online utilizing the full nonlinear system dynamics. The effectiveness of this method is shown in a high-fidelity simulation of a quadrotor with onboard sensors rapidly and safely exploring a cave environment utilizing a simple planner.


Title: Deep Kinematic Models for Kinematically Feasible Vehicle Trajectory Predictions
Abstract: Self-driving vehicles (SDVs) hold great potential for improving traffic safety and are poised to positively affect the quality of life of millions of people. To unlock this potential one of the critical aspects of the autonomous technology is understanding and predicting future movement of vehicles surrounding the SDV. This work presents a deep-learning- based method for kinematically feasible motion prediction of such traffic actors. Previous work did not explicitly encode vehicle kinematics and instead relied on the models to learn the constraints directly from the data, potentially resulting in kinematically infeasible, suboptimal trajectory predictions. To address this issue we propose a method that seamlessly combines ideas from the AI with physically grounded vehicle motion models. In this way we employ best of the both worlds, coupling powerful learning models with strong feasibility guarantees for their outputs. The proposed approach is general, being applicable to any type of learning method. Extensive experiments using deep convnets on real-world data strongly indicate its benefits, outperforming the existing state-of-the-art.


Title: Human Driver Behavior Prediction based on UrbanFlow*
Abstract: How autonomous vehicles and human drivers share public transportation systems is an important problem, as fully automatic transportation environments are still a long way off. Understanding human drivers' behavior can be beneficial for autonomous vehicle decision making and planning, especially when the autonomous vehicle is surrounded by human drivers who have various driving behaviors and patterns of interaction with other vehicles. In this paper, we propose an LSTM-based trajectory prediction method for human drivers which can help the autonomous vehicle make better decisions, especially in urban intersection scenarios. Meanwhile, in order to collect human drivers' driving behavior data in the urban scenario, we describe a system called UrbanFlow which includes the whole procedure from raw bird's-eye view data collection via drone to the final processed trajectories. The system is mainly intended for urban scenarios but can be extended to be used for any traffic scenarios.


Title: On training datasets for machine learning-based visual relative localization of micro-scale UAVs
Abstract: By leveraging our relative Micro-scale Unmanned Aerial Vehicle localization sensor UVDAR, we generated an automatically annotated dataset MIDGARD, which the community is invited to use for training and testing their machine learning systems for the detection and localization of Microscale Unmanned Aerial Vehicles (MAVs) by other MAVs. Furthermore, we provide our system as a mechanism for rapidly generating custom annotated datasets specifically tailored for the needs of a given application. The recent literature is rich in applications of machine learning methods in automation and robotics. One particular subset of these methods is visual object detection and localization, using means such as Convolutional Neural Networks, which nowadays enable objects to be detected and classified with previously inconceivable precision and reliability. Most of these applications, however, rely on a carefully crafted training dataset of annotated camera footage. These must contain the objects of interest in environments similar to those where the detector is expected to operate. Notably, the positions of the objects must be provided in annotations. For non-laboratory settings, the construction of such datasets requires many man-hours of manual annotation, which is especially the case for use onboard Micro-scale Unmanned Aerial Vehicles. In this paper, we are providing for the community a practical alternative to that kind of approach.


Title: DirectShape: Direct Photometric Alignment of Shape Priors for Visual Vehicle Pose and Shape Estimation
Abstract: Scene understanding from images is a challenging problem encountered in autonomous driving. On the object level, while 2D methods have gradually evolved from computing simple bounding boxes to delivering finer grained results like instance segmentations, the 3D family is still dominated by estimating 3D bounding boxes. In this paper, we propose a novel approach to jointly infer the 3D rigid-body poses and shapes of vehicles from a stereo image pair using shape priors. Unlike previous works that geometrically align shapes to point clouds from dense stereo reconstruction, our approach works directly on images by combining a photometric and a silhouette alignment term in the energy function. An adaptive sparse point selection scheme is proposed to efficiently measure the consistency with both terms. In experiments, we show superior performance of our method on 3D pose and shape estimation over the previous geometric approach and demonstrate that our method can also be applied as a refinement step and significantly boost the performances of several state-of-the-art deep learning based 3D object detectors. All related materials and demonstration videos are available at the project page https://vision.in.tum.de/research/vslam/direct-shape.


Title: End-to-end Learning for Inter-Vehicle Distance and Relative Velocity Estimation in ADAS with a Monocular Camera
Abstract: Inter-vehicle distance and relative velocity estimations are two basic functions for any ADAS (Advanced driver-assistance systems). In this paper, we propose a monocular camera based inter-vehicle distance and relative velocity estimation method based on end-to-end training of a deep neural network. The key novelty of our method is the integration of multiple visual clues provided by any two time-consecutive monocular frames, which include deep feature clue, scene geometry clue, as well as temporal optical flow clue. We also propose a vehicle-centric sampling mechanism to alleviate the effect of perspective distortion in the motion field (i.e. optical flow). We implement the method by a light-weight deep neural network. Extensive experiments are conducted which confirm the superior performance of our method over other state-of-the-art methods, in terms of estimation accuracy, computational speed, and memory footprint.


Title: DeepCrashTest: Turning Dashcam Videos into Virtual Crash Tests for Automated Driving Systems
Abstract: The goal of this paper is to generate simulations with real-world collision scenarios for training and testing autonomous vehicles. We use numerous dashcam crash videos uploaded on the internet to extract valuable collision data and recreate the crash scenarios in a simulator. We tackle the problem of extracting 3D vehicle trajectories from videos recorded by an unknown and uncalibrated monocular camera source using a modular approach. A working architecture and demonstration videos along with the open-source implementation are provided with the paper.


Title: Iterator-Based Temporal Logic Task Planning
Abstract: Temporal logic task planning for robotic systems suffers from state explosion when specifications involve large numbers of discrete locations. We provide a novel approach, particularly suited for task specifications with universally quantified locations, that has constant time with respect to the number of locations, enabling synthesis of plans for an arbitrary number of them. We propose a hybrid control framework that uses an iterator to manage the discretised workspace hiding it from a plan enacted by a discrete event controller. A downside of our approach is that it incurs in increased overhead when executing a synthesised plan. We demonstrate that the overhead is reasonable for missions of a fixed-wing Unmanned Aerial Vehicle in simulated and real scenarios for up to 700000 locations.


