total paper: 47
Title: Metrically-Scaled Monocular SLAM using Learned Scale Factors
Abstract: We propose an efficient method for monocular simultaneous localization and mapping (SLAM) that is capable of estimating metrically-scaled motion without additional sensors or hardware acceleration by integrating metric depth predictions from a neural network into a geometric SLAM factor graph. Unlike learned end-to-end SLAM systems, ours does not ignore the relative geometry directly observable in the images. Unlike existing learned depth estimation approaches, ours leverages the insight that when used to estimate scale, learned depth predictions need only be coarse in image space. This allows us to shrink our network to the point that performing inference on a standard CPU becomes computationally tractable.We make several improvements to our network architecture and training procedure to address the lack of depth observability when using coarse images, which allows us to estimate spatially coarse, but depth-accurate predictions in only 30 ms per frame without GPU acceleration. At runtime we incorporate the learned metric data as unary scale factors in a Sim(3) pose graph. Our method is able to generate accurate, scaled poses without additional sensors, hardware accelerators, or special maneuvers and does not ignore or corrupt the observable epipolar geometry. We show compelling results on the KITTI benchmark dataset in addition to real-world experiments with a handheld camera.


Title: Inertial-Only Optimization for Visual-Inertial Initialization
Abstract: We formulate for the first time visual-inertial initialization as an optimal estimation problem, in the sense of maximum-a-posteriori (MAP) estimation. This allows us to properly take into account IMU measurement uncertainty, which was neglected in previous methods that either solved sets of algebraic equations, or minimized ad-hoc cost functions using least squares. Our exhaustive initialization tests on EuRoC dataset show that our proposal largely outperforms the best methods in the literature, being able to initialize in less than 4 seconds in almost any point of the trajectory, with a scale error of 5.3% on average. This initialization has been integrated into ORB-SLAM Visual-Inertial boosting its robustness and efficiency while maintaining its excellent accuracy.


Title: Hierarchical Quadtree Feature Optical Flow Tracking Based Sparse Pose-Graph Visual-Inertial SLAM
Abstract: Accurate, robust and real-time localization under constrained-resources is a critical problem to be solved. In this paper, we present a new sparse pose-graph visual-inertial SLAM (SPVIS). Unlike the existing methods that are costly to deal with a large number of redundant features and 3D map points, which are inefficient for improving positioning accuracy, we focus on the concise visual cues for high-precision pose estimating. We propose a novel hierarchical quadtree based optical flow tracking algorithm, it achieves high accuracy and robustness within very few concise features, which is only about one fifth features of the state-of-the-art visual-inertial SLAM algorithms. Benefiting from the efficient optical flow tracking, our sparse pose-graph optimization time cost achieves bounded complexity. By selecting and optimizing the informative features in sliding window and local VIO, the computational complexity is bounded, it achieves low time cost in long-term operation. We compare with the state-of-the-art VIO/VI-SLAM systems on the challenging public datasets by the embedded platform without GPUs, the results effectively verify that the proposed method has better real-time performance and localization accuracy.


Title: Keypoint Description by Descriptor Fusion Using Autoencoders
Abstract: Keypoint matching is an important operation in computer vision and its applications such as visual simultaneous localization and mapping (SLAM) in robotics. This matching operation heavily depends on the descriptors of the keypoints, and it must be performed reliably when images undergo conditional changes such as those in illumination and viewpoint. In this paper, a descriptor fusion model (DFM) is proposed to create a robust keypoint descriptor by fusing CNN-based descriptors using autoencoders. Our DFM architecture can be adapted to either trained or pre-trained CNN models. Based on the performance of existing CNN descriptors, we choose HardNet and DenseNet169 as representatives of trained and pre-trained descriptors. Our proposed DFM is evaluated on the latest benchmark datasets in computer vision with challenging conditional changes. The experimental results show that DFM is able to achieve state-of-the-art performance, with the mean mAP that is 6.45% and 6.53% higher than HardNet and DenseNet169, respectively.


Title: Towards Noise Resilient SLAM
Abstract: Sparse-indirect SLAM systems have been dominantly popular due to their computational efficiency and photometric invariance properties. Depth sensors are critical to SLAM frameworks for providing scale information to the 3D world, yet known to be plagued by a wide variety of noise sources, possessing lateral and axial components. In this work, we demonstrate the detrimental impact of these depth noise components on the performance of the state-of-the-art sparse-indirect SLAM system (ORB-SLAM2). We propose (i) Map-Point Consensus based Outlier Rejection (MC-OR) to counter lateral noise, and (ii) Adaptive Virtual Camera (AVC) to combat axial noise accurately. MC-OR utilizes consensus information between multiple sightings of the same landmark to disambiguate noisy depth and filter it out before pose optimization. In AVC, we introduce an error vector as an accurate representation of the axial depth error. We additionally propose an adaptive algorithm to find the virtual camera location for projecting the error used in the objective function of the pose optimization. Our techniques work equally well for stereo image pairs and RGB-D input directly used by sparse-indirect SLAM systems. Our methods were tested on the TUM (RGB-D) and EuRoC (stereo) datasets and we show that they outperform existing state-of-the-art ORB-SLAM2 by 2-3x, especially in sequences critically affected by depth noise.


Title: LAMP: Large-Scale Autonomous Mapping and Positioning for Exploration of Perceptually-Degraded Subterranean Environments
Abstract: Simultaneous Localization and Mapping (SLAM) in large-scale, unknown, and complex subterranean environments is a challenging problem. Sensors must operate in off-nominal conditions; uneven and slippery terrains make wheel odometry inaccurate, while long corridors without salient features make exteroceptive sensing ambiguous and prone to drift; finally, spurious loop closures that are frequent in environments with repetitive appearance, such as tunnels and mines, could result in a significant distortion of the entire map. These challenges are in stark contrast with the need to build highly-accurate 3D maps to support a wide variety of applications, ranging from disaster response to the exploration of underground extraterrestrial worlds. This paper reports on the implementation and testing of a lidar-based multi-robot SLAM system developed in the context of the DARPA Subterranean Challenge. We present a system architecture to enhance subterranean operation, including an accurate lidar-based front-end, and a flexible and robust back-end that automatically rejects outlying loop closures. We present an extensive evaluation in large-scale, challenging subterranean environments, including the results obtained in the Tunnel Circuit of the DARPA Subterranean Challenge. Finally, we discuss potential improvements, limitations of the state of the art, and future research directions.


Title: Beyond Photometric Consistency: Gradient-based Dissimilarity for Improving Visual Odometry and Stereo Matching
Abstract: Pose estimation and map building are central ingredients of autonomous robots and typically rely on the registration of sensor data. In this paper, we investigate a new metric for registering images that builds upon on the idea of the photometric error. Our approach combines a gradient orientation-based metric with a magnitude-dependent scaling term. We integrate both into stereo estimation as well as visual odometry systems and show clear benefits for typical disparity and direct image registration tasks when using our proposed metric. Our experimental evaluation indicate that our metric leads to more robust and more accurate estimates of the scene depth as well as camera trajectory. Thus, the metric improves camera pose estimation and in turn the mapping capabilities of mobile robots. We believe that a series of existing visual odometry and visual SLAM systems can benefit from the findings reported in this paper.


Title: OmniSLAM: Omnidirectional Localization and Dense Mapping for Wide-baseline Multi-camera Systems
Abstract: In this paper, we present an omnidirectional localization and dense mapping system for a wide-baseline multiview stereo setup with ultra-wide field-of-view (FOV) fisheye cameras, which has a 360° coverage of stereo observations of the environment. For more practical and accurate reconstruction, we first introduce improved and light-weighted deep neural networks for the omnidirectional depth estimation, which are faster and more accurate than the existing networks. Second, we integrate our omnidirectional depth estimates into the visual odometry (VO) and add a loop closing module for global consistency. Using the estimated depth map, we reproject keypoints onto each other view, which leads to a better and more efficient feature matching process. Finally, we fuse the omnidirectional depth maps and the estimated rig poses into the truncated signed distance function (TSDF) volume to acquire a 3D map. We evaluate our method on synthetic datasets with ground-truth and real-world sequences of challenging environments, and the extensive experiments show that the proposed system generates excellent reconstruction results in both synthetic and real-world environments.


Title: Test Your SLAM! The SubT-Tunnel dataset and metric for mapping
Abstract: This paper presents an approach and introduces new open-source tools that can be used to evaluate robotic mapping algorithms. Also described is an extensive subterranean mine rescue dataset based upon the DARPA Subterranean (SubT) challenge including professionally surveyed ground truth. Finally, some commonly available approaches are evaluated using this metric.


Title: Linear RGB-D SLAM for Atlanta World
Abstract: We present a new linear method for RGB-D based simultaneous localization and mapping (SLAM). Compared to existing techniques relying on the Manhattan world assumption defined by three orthogonal directions, our approach is designed for the more general scenario of the Atlanta world. It consists of a vertical direction and a set of horizontal directions orthogonal to the vertical direction and thus can represent a wider range of scenes. Our approach leverages the structural regularity of the Atlanta world to decouple the non-linearity of camera pose estimations. This allows us separately to estimate the camera rotation and then the translation, which bypasses the inherent non-linearity of traditional SLAM techniques. To this end, we introduce a novel tracking-by-detection scheme to estimate the underlying scene structure by Atlanta representation. Thereby, we propose an Atlanta frame-aware linear SLAM framework which jointly estimates the camera motion and a planar map supporting the Atlanta structure through a linear Kalman filter. Evaluations on both synthetic and real datasets demonstrate that our approach provides favorable performance compared to existing state-of-the-art methods while extending their working range to the Atlanta world.


Title: Probabilistic Data Association via Mixture Models for Robust Semantic SLAM
Abstract: Modern robotic systems sense the environment geometrically, through sensors like cameras, lidar, and sonar, as well as semantically, often through visual models learned from data, such as object detectors. We aim to develop robots that can use all of these sources of information for reliable navigation, but each is corrupted by noise. Rather than assume that object detection will eventually achieve near perfect performance across the lifetime of a robot, in this work we represent and cope with the semantic and geometric uncertainty inherent in object detection methods. Specifically, we model data association ambiguity, which is typically non-Gaussian, in a way that is amenable to solution within the common nonlinear Gaussian formulation of simultaneous localization and mapping (SLAM). We do so by eliminating data association variables from the inference process through max-marginalization, preserving standard Gaussian posterior assumptions. The result is a max-mixture-type model that accounts for multiple data association hypotheses. We provide experimental results on indoor and outdoor semantic navigation tasks with noisy odometry and object detection and find that the ability of the proposed approach to represent multiple hypotheses, including the "null" hypothesis, gives substantial robustness advantages in comparison to alternative semantic SLAM approaches.


Title: Closed-Loop Benchmarking of Stereo Visual-Inertial SLAM Systems: Understanding the Impact of Drift and Latency on Tracking Accuracy
Abstract: Visual-inertial SLAM is essential for robot navigation in GPS-denied environments, e.g. indoor, underground. Conventionally, the performance of visual-inertial SLAM is evaluated with open-loop analysis, with a focus on the drift level of SLAM systems. In this paper, we raise the question on the importance of visual estimation latency in closed-loop navigation tasks, such as accurate trajectory tracking. To understand the impact of both drift and latency on visualinertial SLAM systems, a closed-loop benchmarking simulation is conducted, where a robot is commanded to follow a desired trajectory using the feedback from visual-inertial estimation. By extensively evaluating the trajectory tracking performance of representative state-of-the-art visual-inertial SLAM systems, we reveal the importance of latency reduction in visual estimation module of these systems. The findings suggest directions of future improvements for visual-inertial SLAM.


Title: Learning error models for graph SLAM
Abstract: Following recent developments, this paper investigates the possibility to predict uncertainty models for monocular graph SLAM using topological features of the problem. An architecture to learn relative (i.e. inter-keyframe) uncertainty models using the resistance distance in the covisibility graph is presented. The proposed architecture is applied to simulated UAV coverage path planning trajectories and an analysis of the approaches strengths and shortcomings is provided.


Title: Real-Time UAV Path Planning for Autonomous Urban Scene Reconstruction
Abstract: Unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs) are frequently used for large-scale scene mapping and reconstruction. However, in most cases, drones are operated manually, which should be more effective and intelligent. In this article, we present a method of real-time UAV path planning for autonomous urban scene reconstruction. Considering the obstacles and time costs, we utilize the top view to generate the initial path. Then we estimate the building heights and take close-up pictures that reveal building details through a SLAM framework. To predict the coverage of the scene, we propose a novel method which combines information on reconstructed point clouds and possible coverage areas. The experimental results reveal that the reconstruction quality of our method is good enough. Our method is also more time-saving than the state-of-the-arts.


Title: Enabling Topological Planning with Monocular Vision
Abstract: Topological strategies for navigation meaningfully reduce the space of possible actions available to a robot, allowing use of heuristic priors or learning to enable computationally efficient, intelligent planning. The challenges in estimating structure with monocular SLAM in low texture or highly cluttered environments have precluded its use for topological planning in the past. We propose a robust sparse map representation that can be built with monocular vision and overcomes these shortcomings. Using a learned sensor, we estimate high-level structure of an environment from streaming images by detecting sparse "vertices" (e.g., boundaries of walls) and reasoning about the structure between them. We also estimate the known free space in our map, a necessary feature for planning through previously unknown environments. We show that our mapping technique can be used on real data and is sufficient for planning and exploration in simulated multi-agent search and learned subgoal planning applications.


Title: Kimera: an Open-Source Library for Real-Time Metric-Semantic Localization and Mapping
Abstract: We provide an open-source C++ library for real-time metric-semantic visual-inertial Simultaneous Localization And Mapping (SLAM). The library goes beyond existing visual and visual-inertial SLAM libraries (e.g., ORB-SLAM, VINS-Mono, OKVIS, ROVIO) by enabling mesh reconstruction and semantic labeling in 3D. Kimera is designed with modularity in mind and has four key components: a visual-inertial odometry (VIO) module for fast and accurate state estimation, a robust pose graph optimizer for global trajectory estimation, a lightweight 3D mesher module for fast mesh reconstruction, and a dense 3D metric-semantic reconstruction module. The modules can be run in isolation or in combination, hence Kimera can easily fall back to a state-of-the-art VIO or a full SLAM system. Kimera runs in real-time on a CPU and produces a 3D metric-semantic mesh from semantically labeled images, which can be obtained by modern deep learning methods. We hope that the flexibility, computational efficiency, robustness, and accuracy afforded by Kimera will build a solid basis for future metric-semantic SLAM and perception research, and will allow researchers across multiple areas (e.g., VIO, SLAM, 3D reconstruction, segmentation) to benchmark and prototype their own efforts without having to start from scratch.


Title: Intensity Scan Context: Coding Intensity and Geometry Relations for Loop Closure Detection
Abstract: Loop closure detection is an essential and challenging problem in simultaneous localization and mapping (SLAM). It is often tackled with light detection and ranging (LiDAR) sensor due to its view-point and illumination invariant properties. Existing works on 3D loop closure detection often leverage on matching of local or global geometrical-only descriptors which discard intensity reading. In this paper we explore the intensity property from LiDAR scan and show that it can be effective for place recognition. We propose a novel global descriptor, intensity scan context (ISC), that explores both geometry and intensity characteristics. To improve the efficiency for loop closure detection, an efficient two-stage hierarchical re-identification process is proposed, including binary-operation based fast geometric relation retrieval and intensity structure re-identification. Thorough experiments including both local experiment and public datasets test have been conducted to evaluate the performance of the proposed method. Our method achieves better recall rate and recall precision than existing geometric-only methods.


Title: TextSLAM: Visual SLAM with Planar Text Features
Abstract: We propose to integrate text objects in man-made scenes tightly into the visual SLAM pipeline. The key idea of our novel text-based visual SLAM is to treat each detected text as a planar feature which is rich of textures and semantic meanings. The text feature is compactly represented by three parameters and integrated into visual SLAM by adopting the illumination-invariant photometric error. We also describe important details involved in implementing a full pipeline of text-based visual SLAM. To our best knowledge, this is the first visual SLAM method tightly coupled with the text features. We tested our method in both indoor and outdoor environments. The results show that with text features, the visual SLAM system becomes more robust and produces much more accurate 3D text maps that could be useful for navigation and scene understanding in robotic or augmented reality applications.


Title: Redesigning SLAM for Arbitrary Multi-Camera Systems
Abstract: Adding more cameras to SLAM systems improves robustness and accuracy but complicates the design of the visual front-end significantly. Thus, most systems in the literature are tailored for specific camera configurations. In this work, we aim at an adaptive SLAM system that works for arbitrary multi-camera setups. To this end, we revisit several common building blocks in visual SLAM. In particular, we propose an adaptive initialization scheme, a sensor-agnostic, information- theoretic keyframe selection algorithm, and a scalable voxel- based map. These techniques make little assumption about the actual camera setups and prefer theoretically grounded methods over heuristics. We adapt a state-of-the-art visual- inertial odometry with these modifications, and experimental results show that the modified pipeline can adapt to a wide range of camera setups (e.g., 2 to 6 cameras in one experiment) without the need of sensor-specific modifications or tuning.


Title: Dynamic SLAM: The Need For Speed
Abstract: The static world assumption is standard in most simultaneous localisation and mapping (SLAM) algorithms. Increased deployment of autonomous systems to unstructured dynamic environments is driving a need to identify moving objects and estimate their velocity in real-time. Most existing SLAM based approaches rely on a database of 3D models of objects or impose significant motion constraints. In this paper, we propose a new feature-based, model-free, object-aware dynamic SLAM algorithm that exploits semantic segmentation to allow estimation of motion of rigid objects in a scene without the need to estimate the object poses or have any prior knowledge of their 3D models. The algorithm generates a map of dynamic and static structure and has the ability to extract velocities of rigid moving objects in the scene. Its performance is demonstrated on simulated, synthetic and real-world datasets.


Title: ∇SLAM: Dense SLAM meets Automatic Differentiation
Abstract: The question of "representation" is central in the context of dense simultaneous localization and mapping (SLAM). Learning-based approaches have the potential to leverage data or task performance to directly inform the representation. However, blending representation learning approaches with "classical" SLAM systems has remained an open question, because of their highly modular and complex nature. A SLAM system transforms raw sensor inputs into a distribution over the state(s) of the robot and the environment. If this transformation (SLAM) were expressible as a differentiable function, we could leverage task-based error signals over the outputs of this function to learn representations that optimize task performance. However, this is infeasible as several components of a typical dense SLAM system are non-differentiable. In this work, we propose ∇SLAM (gradSLAM), a methodology for posing SLAM systems as differentiable computational graphs, which unifies gradient-based learning and SLAM. We propose differentiable trust-region optimizers, surface measurement and fusion schemes, and raycasting, without sacrificing accuracy. This amalgamation of dense SLAM with computational graphs enables us to backprop all the way from 3D maps to 2D pixels, opening up new possibilities in gradient-based learning for SLAM1.


Title: Accurate position tracking with a single UWB anchor
Abstract: Accurate localization and tracking are a fundamental requirement for robotic applications. Localization systems like GPS, optical tracking, simultaneous localization and mapping (SLAM) are used for daily life activities, research, and commercial applications. Ultra-wideband (UWB) technology provides another venue to accurately locate devices both indoors and outdoors. In this paper, we study a localization solution with a single UWB anchor, instead of the traditional multi-anchor setup. Besides the challenge of a single UWB ranging source, the only other sensor we require is a low-cost 9 DoF inertial measurement unit (IMU). Under such a configuration, we propose continuous monitoring of UWB range changes to estimate the robot speed when moving on a line. Combining speed estimation with orientation estimation from the IMU sensor, the system becomes temporally observable. We use an Extended Kalman Filter (EKF) to estimate the pose of a robot. With our solution, we can effectively correct the accumulated error and maintain accurate tracking of a moving robot.


Title: A GNC Architecture for Planetary Rovers with Autonomous Navigation
Abstract: This paper proposes a Guidance, Navigation, and Control (GNC) architecture for planetary rovers targeting the conditions of upcoming Mars exploration missions such as Mars 2020 and the Sample Fetching Rover (SFR). The navigation requirements of these missions demand a control architecture featuring autonomous capabilities to achieve a fast and long traverse. The proposed solution presents a two-level architecture where the efficient navigation (lower) level is always active and the full navigation (upper) level is enabled according to the difficulty of the terrain. The first level is an efficient implementation of the basic functionalities for autonomous navigation based on hazard detection, local path replanning, and trajectory control with visual odometry. The second level implements an adaptive SLAM algorithm that improves the relative localization, evaluates the traversability of the terrain ahead for a more optimal path planning, and performs global (absolute) localization that corrects the pose drift during longer traverses. The architecture provides a solution for long-range, low supervision, and fast planetary exploration. Both navigation levels have been validated on planetary analog field test campaigns.


Title: Real-Time Graph-Based SLAM with Occupancy Normal Distributions Transforms
Abstract: Simultaneous Localization and Mapping (SLAM) is one of the basic problems in mobile robotics. While most approaches are based on occupancy grid maps, Normal Distributions Transforms (NDT) and mixtures like Occupancy Normal Distribution Transforms (ONDT) have been shown to represent sensor measurements more accurately. In this work, we slightly re-formulate the (O)NDT matching function such that it becomes a least squares problem that can be solved with various robust numerical and analytical non-linear optimizers. Further, we propose a novel global (O)NDT scan matcher for loop closure. In our evaluation, our NDT and ONDT methods are able to outperform the occupancy grid map based ones we adopted from Google's Cartographer implementation.


Title: Active SLAM using 3D Submap Saliency for Underwater Volumetric Exploration
Abstract: In this paper, we present an active SLAM framework for volumetric exploration of 3D underwater environments with multibeam sonar. Recent work in integrated SLAM and planning performs localization while maintaining volumetric free-space information. However, an absence of informative loop closures can lead to imperfect maps, and therefore unsafe behavior. To solve this, we propose a navigation policy that reduces vehicle pose uncertainty by balancing between volumetric exploration and revisitation. To identify locations to revisit, we build a 3D visual dictionary from real-world sonar data and compute a metric of submap saliency. Revisit actions are chosen based on propagated pose uncertainty and sensor information gain. Loop closures are integrated as constraints in our pose-graph SLAM formulation and these deform the global occupancy grid map. We evaluate our performance in simulation and real-world experiments, and highlight the advantages over an uncertainty-agnostic framework.


Title: Are We Ready for Service Robots? The OpenLORIS-Scene Datasets for Lifelong SLAM
Abstract: Service robots should be able to operate autonomously in dynamic and daily changing environments over an extended period of time. While Simultaneous Localization And Mapping (SLAM) is one of the most fundamental problems for robotic autonomy, most existing SLAM works are evaluated with data sequences that are recorded in a short period of time. In real-world deployment, there can be out-of-sight scene changes caused by both natural factors and human activities. For example, in home scenarios, most objects may be movable, replaceable or deformable, and the visual features of the same place may be significantly different in some successive days. Such out-of-sight dynamics pose great challenges to the robustness of pose estimation, and hence a robot's long-term deployment and operation. To differentiate the forementioned problem from the conventional works which are usually evaluated in a static setting in a single run, the term lifelong SLAM is used here to address SLAM problems in an ever-changing environment over a long period of time. To accelerate lifelong SLAM research, we release the OpenLORIS-Scene datasets. The data are collected in real-world indoor scenes, for multiple times in each place to include scene changes in real life. We also design benchmarking metrics for lifelong SLAM, with which the robustness and accuracy of pose estimation are evaluated separately. The datasets and benchmark are available online at lifelong-robotic-vision.github.io/dataset/scene.


Title: Online LiDAR-SLAM for Legged Robots with Robust Registration and Deep-Learned Loop Closure
Abstract: In this paper, we present a 3D factor-graph LiDAR-SLAM system which incorporates a state-of-the-art deeply learned feature-based loop closure detector to enable a legged robot to localize and map in industrial environments. Point clouds are accumulated using an inertial-kinematic state estimator before being aligned using ICP registration. To close loops we use a loop proposal mechanism which matches individual segments between clouds. We trained a descriptor offline to match these segments. The efficiency of our method comes from carefully designing the network architecture to minimize the number of parameters such that this deep learning method can be deployed in real-time using only the CPU of a legged robot, a major contribution of this work. The set of odometry and loop closure factors are updated using pose graph optimization. Finally we present an efficient risk alignment prediction method which verifies the reliability of the registrations. Experimental results at an industrial facility demonstrated the robustness and flexibility of our system, including autonomous following paths derived from the SLAM map.


Title: Voxel Map for Visual SLAM
Abstract: In modern visual SLAM systems, it is a standard practice to retrieve potential candidate map points from overlapping keyframes for further feature matching or direct tracking. In this work, we argue that keyframes are not the optimal choice for this task, due to several inherent limitations, such as weak geometric reasoning and poor scalability. We propose a voxel-map representation to efficiently retrieve map points for visual SLAM. In particular, we organize the map points in a regular voxel grid. Visible points from a camera pose are queried by sampling the camera frustum in a raycasting manner, which can be done in constant time using an efficient voxel hashing method. Compared with keyframes, the retrieved points using our method are geometrically guaranteed to fall in the camera field-of-view, and occluded points can be identified and removed to a certain extend. This method also naturally scales up to large scenes and complicated multi-camera configurations. Experimental results show that our voxel map representation is as efficient as a keyframe map with 5 keyframes and provides significantly higher localization accuracy (average 46% improvement in RMSE) on the EuRoC dataset. The proposed voxel-map representation is a general approach to a fundamental functionality in visual SLAM and widely applicable.


Title: Visual Odometry Revisited: What Should Be Learnt?
Abstract: In this work we present a monocular visual odometry (VO) algorithm which leverages geometry-based methods and deep learning. Most existing VO/SLAM systems with superior performance are based on geometry and have to be carefully designed for different application scenarios. Moreover, most monocular systems suffer from scale-drift issue. Some recent deep learning works learn VO in an end-to-end manner but the performance of these deep systems is still not comparable to geometry-based methods. In this work, we revisit the basics of VO and explore the right way for integrating deep learning with epipolar geometry and Perspective-n-Point (PnP) method. Specifically, we train two convolutional neural networks (CNNs) for estimating single-view depths and two-view optical flows as intermediate outputs. With the deep predictions, we design a simple but robust frame-to-frame VO algorithm (DF-VO) which outperforms pure deep learning-based and geometry-based methods. More importantly, our system does not suffer from the scale-drift issue being aided by a scale consistent single-view depth CNN. Extensive experiments on KITTI dataset shows the robustness of our system and a detailed ablation study shows the effect of different factors in our system. Code is available at here: DF-VO.


Title: OpenVINS: A Research Platform for Visual-Inertial Estimation
Abstract: In this paper, we present an open platform, termed OpenVINS, for visual-inertial estimation research for both the academic community and practitioners from industry. The open sourced codebase provides a foundation for researchers and engineers to quickly start developing new capabilities for their visual-inertial systems. This codebase has out of the box support for commonly desired visual-inertial estimation features, which include: (i) on-manifold sliding window Kalman filter, (ii) online camera intrinsic and extrinsic calibration, (iii) camera to inertial sensor time offset calibration, (iv) SLAM landmarks with different representations and consistent First-Estimates Jacobian (FEJ) treatments, (v) modular type system for state management, (vi) extendable visual-inertial system simulator, and (vii) extensive toolbox for algorithm evaluation. Moreover, we have also focused on detailed documentation and theoretical derivations to support rapid development and research, which are greatly lacked in the current open sourced algorithms. Finally, we perform comprehensive validation of the proposed OpenVINS against state-of-the-art open sourced algorithms, showing its competing estimation performance.


Title: AC/DCC : Accurate Calibration of Dynamic Camera Clusters for Visual SLAM
Abstract: In order to relate information across cameras in a Dynamic Camera Cluster (DCC), an accurate time-varying set of extrinsic calibration transformations need to be determined. Previous calibration approaches rely solely on collecting measurements from a known fiducial target which limits calibration accuracy as insufficient excitation of the gimbal is achieved. In this paper, we improve DCC calibration accuracy by collecting measurements over the entire configuration space of the gimbal and achieve a 10X improvement in pixel re-projection error. We perform a joint optimization over the calibration parameters between any number of cameras and unknown joint angles using a pose-loop error optimization approach, thereby avoiding the need for overlapping fields-of-view. We test our method in simulation and provide a calibration sensitivity analysis for different levels of camera intrinsic and joint angle noise. In addition, we provide a novel analysis of the degenerate parameters in the calibration when joint angle values are unknown, which avoids situations in which the calibration cannot be uniquely recovered. The calibration code will be made available at https://github.com/TRAILab/AC-DCC.


Title: Error estimation and correction in a spiking neural network for map formation in neuromorphic hardware
Abstract: Neuromorphic hardware offers computing platforms for the efficient implementation of spiking neural networks (SNNs) that can be used for robot control. Here, we present such an SNN on a neuromorphic chip that solves a number of tasks related to simultaneous localization and mapping (SLAM): forming a map of an unknown environment and, at the same time, estimating the robot's pose. In particular, we present an SNN mechanism to detect and estimate errors when the robot revisits a known landmark and updates both the map and the path integration speed to reduce the error. The whole system is fully realized in a neuromorphic device, showing the feasibility of a purely SNN-based SLAM, which could be efficiently implemented in a small form-factor neuromorphic chip.


Title: GPO: Global Plane Optimization for Fast and Accurate Monocular SLAM Initialization
Abstract: Initialization is essential to monocular Simultaneous Localization and Mapping (SLAM) problems. This paper focuses on a novel initialization method for monocular SLAM based on planar features. The algorithm starts by homography estimation in a sliding window. It then proceeds to a global plane optimization (GPO) to obtain camera poses and the plane normal. 3D points can be recovered using planar constraints without triangulation. The proposed method fully exploits the plane information from multiple frames and avoids the ambiguities in homography decomposition. We validate our algorithm on the collected chessboard dataset against baseline implementations and present extensive analysis. Experimental results show that our method outperforms the ne-tuned baselines in both accuracy and real-time.


Title: Robust RGB-D Camera Tracking using Optimal Key-frame Selection
Abstract: We propose a novel RGB-D camera tracking system that robustly reconstructs hand-held RGB-D camera sequences. The robustness of our system is achieved by two independent features of our method: adaptive visual odometry (VO) and integer programming-based key-frame selection. Our VO method adaptively interpolates the camera motion results of the direct VO (DVO) and the iterative closed point (ICP) to yield more optimal results than existing methods such as Elastic-Fusion. Moreover, our key-frame selection method locates globally optimum key-frames using a comprehensive objective function in a deterministic manner rather than heuristic or experience-based rules that prior methods mostly rely on. As a result, our method can complete reconstruction even if the camera fails to be tracked due to discontinuous camera motions, such as kidnap events, when conventional systems need to backtrack the scene. We validated our tracking system on 25 TUM benchmark sequences against state-of-the-art works, such as ORBSLAM2, Elastic-Fusion, and DVO SLAM, and experimentally showed that our method has smaller and more robust camera trajectory errors than these systems.


Title: Comparing View-Based and Map-Based Semantic Labelling in Real-Time SLAM
Abstract: Generally capable Spatial AI systems must build persistent scene representations where geometric models are combined with meaningful semantic labels. The many approaches to labelling scenes can be divided into two clear groups: view-based which estimate labels from the input view-wise data and then incrementally fuse them into the scene model as it is built; and map-based which label the generated scene model. However, there has so far been no attempt to quantitatively compare view-based and map-based labelling. Here, we present an experimental framework and comparison which uses real-time height map fusion as an accessible platform for a fair comparison, opening up the route to further systematic research in this area.


Title: Automatic tool for Gazebo world construction: from a grayscale image to a 3D solid model
Abstract: Robot simulators provide an easy way for evaluation of new concepts and algorithms in a simulated physical environment reducing development time and cost. Therefore it is convenient to have a tool that quickly creates a 3D landscape from an arbitrary 2D image or 2D laser range finder data. This paper presents a new tool that automatically constructs such landscapes for Gazebo simulator. The tool converts a grayscale image into a 3D Collada format model, which could be directly imported into Gazebo. We run three different simultaneous localization and mapping (SLAM) algorithms within three varying complexity environments that were constructed with our tool. A real-time factor (RTF) was used as an efficiency benchmark. Successfully completed SLAM missions with acceptable RTF levels demonstrated the efficiency of the tool. The source code is available for free academic use.


Title: Practical Persistence Reasoning in Visual SLAM
Abstract: Many existing SLAM approaches rely on the assumption of static environments for accurate performance. However, several robot applications require them to traverse repeatedly in semi-static or dynamic environments. There has been some recent research interest in designing persistence filters to reason about persistence in such scenarios. Our goal in this work is to incorporate such persistence reasoning in visual SLAM. To this end, we incorporate persistence filters [1] into ORB-SLAM, a well-known visual SLAM algorithm. We observe that the simple integration of their proposal results in inefficient persistence reasoning. Through a series of modifications and using two locally collected datasets, we demonstrate the utility of such persistence filtering as well as our customizations in ORB-SLAM. Overall, incorporating persistence filtering could result in a significant reduction in map size (about 30% in the best case) and a corresponding reduction in run-time while retaining similar accuracy to methods that use much larger maps.


Title: FlowFusion: Dynamic Dense RGB-D SLAM Based on Optical Flow
Abstract: Dynamic environments are challenging for visual SLAM since the moving objects occlude the static environment features and lead to wrong camera motion estimation. In this paper, we present a novel dense RGB-D SLAM solution that simultaneously accomplishes the dynamic/static segmentation and camera ego-motion estimation as well as the static background reconstructions. Our novelty is using optical flow residuals to highlight the dynamic semantics in the RGB-D point clouds and provide more accurate and efficient dynamic/static segmentation for camera tracking and background reconstruction. The dense reconstruction results on public datasets and real dynamic scenes indicate that the proposed approach achieved accurate and efficient performances in both dynamic and static environments compared to state-of-the-art approaches.


Title: The Tiercel: A novel autonomous micro aerial vehicle that can map the environment by flying into obstacles
Abstract: Autonomous flight through unknown environments in the presence of obstacles is a challenging problem for micro aerial vehicles (MAVs). A majority of the current state-of-art research assumes obstacles as opaque objects that can be easily sensed by optical sensors such as cameras or LiDARs. However in indoor environments with glass walls and windows, or scenarios with smoke and dust, robots (even birds) have a difficult time navigating through the unknown space.In this paper, we present the design of a new class of micro aerial vehicles that achieves autonomous navigation and are robust to collisions. In particular, we present the Tiercel MAV: a small, agile, light weight and collision-resilient robot powered by a cellphone grade CPU. Our design exploits contact to infer the presence of transparent or reflective obstacles like glass walls, integrating touch with visual perception for SLAM. The Tiercel is able to localize using visual-inertial odometry (VIO) running on board the robot with a single downward facing fisheye camera and an IMU. We show how our collision detector design and experimental set up enable us to characterize the impact of collisions on VIO. We further develop a planning strategy to enable the Tiercel to fly autonomously in an unknown space, sustaining collisions and creating a 2D map of the environment. Finally we demonstrate a swarm of three autonomous Tiercel robots safely navigating and colliding through an obstacle field to reach their objectives.


Title: Integrated moment-based LGMD and deep reinforcement learning for UAV obstacle avoidance
Abstract: In this paper, a bio-inspired monocular vision perception method combined with a learning-based reaction local planner for obstacle avoidance of micro UAVs is presented. The system is more computationally efficient than other vision-based perception and navigation methods such as SLAM and optical flow because it does not need to calculate accurate distances. To improve the robustness of perception against illuminance change, the input image is remapped using image moment which is independent of illuminance variation. After perception, a local planner is trained using deep reinforcement learning for mapless navigation. The proposed perception and navigation methods are evaluated in some realistic simulation environments. The result shows that this light-weight monocular perception and navigation system works well in different complex environments without accurate depth information.


Title: View-Invariant Loop Closure with Oriented Semantic Landmarks
Abstract: Recent work on semantic simultaneous localization and mapping (SLAM) have shown the utility of natural objects as landmarks for improving localization accuracy and robustness. In this paper we present a monocular semantic SLAM system that uses object identity and inter-object geometry for view-invariant loop detection and drift correction. Our system's ability to recognize an area of the scene even under large changes in viewing direction allows it to surpass the mapping accuracy of ORB-SLAM, which uses only local appearance-based features that are not robust to large viewpoint changes. Experiments on real indoor scenes show that our method achieves mean drift reduction of 70% when compared directly to ORB-SLAM. Additionally, we propose a method for object orientation estimation, where we leverage the tracked pose of a moving camera under the SLAM setting to overcome ambiguities caused by object symmetry. This allows our SLAM system to produce geometrically detailed semantic maps with object orientation, translation, and scale.


Title: A Flexible Method for Performance Evaluation of Robot Localization
Abstract: An important research issue in mobile robotics is performance assessment of robot SLAM algorithms in terms of their localization accuracy. Typically, SLAM algorithms are evaluated with the help of benchmark datasets or expensive equipment such as motion capture. Benchmark datasets however, are environment-specific, and use of motion capture constrains spatial coverage and affordability. In this paper, we present a novel method for SLAM performance evaluation, which only uses distinctive markers (such as AR tags), randomly placed in the robot navigation environment at arbitrary locations, and observes these markers with a camera onboard of the robot. Formulated as a generative latent optimization (GLO) problem, our method uses the local robot-to-marker poses to evaluate the global robot pose estimates by a SLAM algorithm and therefore its performance. Through extensive experiments on two robots, three localization/SLAM algorithms and both LiDAR and RGB-D sensors, we demonstrate the feasibility and accuracy of our proposed method.


Title: Flydar: Magnetometer-based High Angular Rate Estimation during Gyro Saturation for SLAM
Abstract: In this paper, the high angular rate estimation for simultaneous localisation and mapping (SLAM) of a Flying Li-DAR (Flydar) is presented. The proposed EKF-based algorithm exploits the sinusoidal magnetometer measurement generated by the continuously rotating airframe for estimation of the robot hovering angular velocity. Significantly, the proposed method does not rely on additional sensors other than existing IMU sensors already being used for flight stabilization. The gyro measurement and the gyro bias are incorporated as a control input and a filter state respectively to enable estimation even under gyro saturation condition. Additionally, this work proposes leveraging on the inherently rotating locomotion to generate a planar lidar scan using only a single-point laser for possible lightweight autonomy. The proposed estimation method was experimentally evaluated on a ground rotating rig up to twice the gyro saturation limit with an effective rms error of 0.0045Hz; and on the proposed aerial platform - Flydar - hovering beyond the saturation limit with a rms error of 0.0056Hz. Lastly, the proposed method for SLAM using the rotating dynamics of Flydar was demonstrated with a localisation accuracy of 0.11m.


Title: CAPRICORN: Communication Aware Place Recognition using Interpretable Constellations of Objects in Robot Networks
Abstract: Using multiple robots for exploring and mapping environments can provide improved robustness and performance, but it can be difficult to implement. In particular, limited communication bandwidth is a considerable constraint when a robot needs to determine if it has visited a location that was previously explored by another robot, as it requires for robots to share descriptions of places they have visited. One way to compress this description is to use constellations, groups of 3D points that correspond to the estimate of a set of relative object positions. Constellations maintain the same pattern from different viewpoints and can be robust to illumination changes or dynamic elements. We present a method to extract from these constellations compact spatial and semantic descriptors of the objects in a scene. We use this representation in a 2step decentralized loop closure verification: first, we distribute the compact semantic descriptors to determine which other robots might have seen scenes with similar objects; then we query matching robots with the full constellation to validate the match using geometric information. The proposed method requires less memory, is more interpretable than global image descriptors, and could be useful for other tasks and interactions with the environment. We validate our system's performance on a TUM RGB-D SLAM sequence and show its benefits in terms of bandwidth requirements.


Title: Efficient two step optimization for large embedded deformation graph based SLAM
Abstract: Embedded deformation graph is a widely used technique in deformable geometry and graphical problems. Although the technique has been transmitted to stereo (or RGB-D) camera based SLAM applications, it remains challenging to compromise the computational cost as the model grows. In practice, the processing time grows rapidly in accordance with the expansion of maps. In this paper, we propose an approach to decouple the nodes of deformation graph in large scale dense deformable SLAM and keep the estimation time to be constant. We observe that only partial deformable nodes in the graph are connected to visible points. Based on this fact, the sparsity of the original Hessian matrix is utilized to split the parameter estimation into two independent steps. With this new technique, we achieve faster parameter estimation with amortized computation complexity reduced from O(n2) to almost O(1). As a result, the computational cost barely increases as the map keeps growing. Based on our strategy, the computational bottleneck in large scale embedded deformation graph based applications will be greatly mitigated. The effectiveness is validated by experiments, featuring large scale deformation scenarios.


Title: Map Management Approach for SLAM in Large-Scale Indoor and Outdoor Areas
Abstract: This work presents a semantic map management approach for various environments by triggering multiple maps with different simultaneous localization and mapping (SLAM) configurations. A modular map structure allows to add, modify or delete maps without influencing other maps of different areas. The hierarchy level of our algorithm is above the utilized SLAM method. Evaluating laser scan data (e.g. the detection of passing a doorway) triggers a new map, automatically choosing the appropriate SLAM configuration from a manually predefined list. Single independent maps are connected by link-points, which are located in an overlapping zone of both maps, enabling global navigation over several maps. Loop- closures between maps are detected by an appearance-based method, using feature matching and iterative closest point (ICP) registration between point clouds. Based on the arrangement of maps and link-points, a topological graph is extracted for navigation purpose and tracking the global robot's position over several maps. Our approach is evaluated by mapping a university campus with multiple indoor and outdoor areas and abstracting a metrical-topological graph. It is compared to a single map running with different SLAM configurations. Our approach enhances the overall map quality compared to the single map approaches by automatically choosing predefined SLAM configurations for different environmental setups.


Title: DirectShape: Direct Photometric Alignment of Shape Priors for Visual Vehicle Pose and Shape Estimation
Abstract: Scene understanding from images is a challenging problem encountered in autonomous driving. On the object level, while 2D methods have gradually evolved from computing simple bounding boxes to delivering finer grained results like instance segmentations, the 3D family is still dominated by estimating 3D bounding boxes. In this paper, we propose a novel approach to jointly infer the 3D rigid-body poses and shapes of vehicles from a stereo image pair using shape priors. Unlike previous works that geometrically align shapes to point clouds from dense stereo reconstruction, our approach works directly on images by combining a photometric and a silhouette alignment term in the energy function. An adaptive sparse point selection scheme is proposed to efficiently measure the consistency with both terms. In experiments, we show superior performance of our method on 3D pose and shape estimation over the previous geometric approach and demonstrate that our method can also be applied as a refinement step and significantly boost the performances of several state-of-the-art deep learning based 3D object detectors. All related materials and demonstration videos are available at the project page https://vision.in.tum.de/research/vslam/direct-shape.


