total paper: 5
Title: Learning error models for graph SLAM
Abstract: Following recent developments, this paper investigates the possibility to predict uncertainty models for monocular graph SLAM using topological features of the problem. An architecture to learn relative (i.e. inter-keyframe) uncertainty models using the resistance distance in the covisibility graph is presented. The proposed architecture is applied to simulated UAV coverage path planning trajectories and an analysis of the approaches strengths and shortcomings is provided.


Title: Real-Time UAV Path Planning for Autonomous Urban Scene Reconstruction
Abstract: Unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs) are frequently used for large-scale scene mapping and reconstruction. However, in most cases, drones are operated manually, which should be more effective and intelligent. In this article, we present a method of real-time UAV path planning for autonomous urban scene reconstruction. Considering the obstacles and time costs, we utilize the top view to generate the initial path. Then we estimate the building heights and take close-up pictures that reveal building details through a SLAM framework. To predict the coverage of the scene, we propose a novel method which combines information on reconstructed point clouds and possible coverage areas. The experimental results reveal that the reconstruction quality of our method is good enough. Our method is also more time-saving than the state-of-the-arts.


Title: Sample Complexity of Probabilistic Roadmaps via ε-nets
Abstract: We study fundamental theoretical aspects of probabilistic roadmaps (PRM) in the finite time (non-asymptotic) regime. In particular, we investigate how completeness and optimality guarantees of the approach are influenced by the underlying deterministic sampling distribution X and connection radius r > 0. We develop the notion of (δ, ε)-completeness of the parameters X, r, which indicates that for every motion-planning problem of clearance at least δ > 0, PRM using X, r returns a solution no longer than 1+ε times the shortest δ-clear path. Leveraging the concept of e-nets, we characterize in terms of lower and upper bounds the number of samples needed to guarantee (δ, ε)-completeness. This is in contrast with previous work which mostly considered the asymptotic regime in which the number of samples tends to infinity. In practice, we propose a sampling distribution inspired by e-nets that achieves nearly the same coverage as grids while using fewer samples.


Title: Hierarchical Coverage Path Planning in Complex 3D Environments
Abstract: State-of-the-art coverage planning methods perform well in simple environments but take an ineffectively long time to converge to an optimal solution in complex three-dimensional (3D) environments. As more structures are present in the same volume of workspace, these methods slow down as they spend more time searching for all of the nooks and crannies concealed in three-dimensional spaces. This work presents a method for coverage planning that employs a multi-resolution hierarchical framework to solve the problem at two different levels, producing much higher efficiency than the state-of-the-art. First, a high-level algorithm separates the environment into multiple subspaces at different resolutions and computes an order of the subspaces for traversal. Second, a low-level sampling-based algorithm solves for paths within the subspaces for detailed coverage. In experiments, we evaluate our method using real-world datasets from complex three-dimensional scenes. Our method finds paths that are constantly shorter and converges at least ten times faster than the state-of-the-art. Further, we show results of a physical experiment where a lightweight UAV follows the paths to realize the coverage.


Title: Active 3D Modeling via Online Multi-View Stereo
Abstract: Multi-view stereo (MVS) algorithms have been commonly used to model large-scale structures. When processing MVS, image acquisition is an important issue because its reconstruction quality depends heavily on the acquired images. Recently, an explore-then-exploit strategy has been used to acquire images for MVS. This method first constructs a coarse model by exploring an entire scene using a pre-allocated camera trajectory. Then, it rescans the unreconstructed regions from the coarse model. However, this strategy is inefficient because of the frequent overlap of the initial and rescanning trajectories. Furthermore, given the complete coverage of images, MVS algorithms do not guarantee an accurate reconstruction result.In this study, we propose a novel view path-planning method based on an online MVS system. This method aims to incrementally construct the target three-dimensional (3D) model in real time. View paths are continually planned based on online feedbacks from the partially constructed model. The obtained paths fully cover low-quality surfaces while maximizing the reconstruction performance of MVS. Experimental results demonstrate that the proposed method can construct high quality 3D models with one exploration trial, without any rescanning trial as in the explore-then-exploit method.


