total paper: 7
Title: Learning error models for graph SLAM
Key Words: autonomous aerial vehicles  graph theory  mobile robots  path planning  robot vision  SLAM (robots)  resistance distance  covisibility graph  simulated UAV coverage path  uncertainty models  monocular graph SLAM  topological features  error model learning  UAV coverage path planning trajectories  Simultaneous localization and mapping  Resistance  Uncertainty  Computational modeling  Computer architecture  Predictive models  Cameras 
Abstract: Following recent developments, this paper investigates the possibility to predict uncertainty models for monocular graph SLAM using topological features of the problem. An architecture to learn relative (i.e. inter-keyframe) uncertainty models using the resistance distance in the covisibility graph is presented. The proposed architecture is applied to simulated UAV coverage path planning trajectories and an analysis of the approaches strengths and shortcomings is provided.


Title: Real-Time UAV Path Planning for Autonomous Urban Scene Reconstruction
Key Words: autonomous aerial vehicles  computational geometry  image reconstruction  path planning  robot vision  SLAM (robots)  unmanned aerial vehicles  large-scale scene mapping  autonomous urban scene reconstruction  point cloud reconstruction  reconstruction quality  large-scale scene reconstruction  real-time UAV path planning  SLAM  Buildings  Image reconstruction  Three-dimensional displays  Path planning  Drones  Cameras  Layout 
Abstract: Unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs) are frequently used for large-scale scene mapping and reconstruction. However, in most cases, drones are operated manually, which should be more effective and intelligent. In this article, we present a method of real-time UAV path planning for autonomous urban scene reconstruction. Considering the obstacles and time costs, we utilize the top view to generate the initial path. Then we estimate the building heights and take close-up pictures that reveal building details through a SLAM framework. To predict the coverage of the scene, we propose a novel method which combines information on reconstructed point clouds and possible coverage areas. The experimental results reveal that the reconstruction quality of our method is good enough. Our method is also more time-saving than the state-of-the-arts.


Title: Sample Complexity of Probabilistic Roadmaps via ε-nets
Key Words: computational complexity  deterministic algorithms  graph theory  probability  shortest δ-clear path  sample complexity  probabilistic roadmaps  ε-nets  optimality guarantees  deterministic sampling distribution  motion planning problem  parameter completeness  Planning  Complexity theory  Probabilistic logic  Two dimensional displays  Robots  Collision avoidance  Benchmark testing 
Abstract: We study fundamental theoretical aspects of probabilistic roadmaps (PRM) in the finite time (non-asymptotic) regime. In particular, we investigate how completeness and optimality guarantees of the approach are influenced by the underlying deterministic sampling distribution X and connection radius r > 0. We develop the notion of (δ, ε)-completeness of the parameters X, r, which indicates that for every motion-planning problem of clearance at least δ > 0, PRM using X, r returns a solution no longer than 1+ε times the shortest δ-clear path. Leveraging the concept of e-nets, we characterize in terms of lower and upper bounds the number of samples needed to guarantee (δ, ε)-completeness. This is in contrast with previous work which mostly considered the asymptotic regime in which the number of samples tends to infinity. In practice, we propose a sampling distribution inspired by e-nets that achieves nearly the same coverage as grids while using fewer samples.


Title: Hierarchical Coverage Path Planning in Complex 3D Environments
Key Words: autonomous aerial vehicles  hierarchical systems  image resolution  image sampling  mobile robots  path planning  robot vision  complex three-dimensional environment  nooks  crannies  coverage planning  multiresolution hierarchical framework  three-dimensional scenes  hierarchical coverage path planning  lightweight UAV  low-level sampling  complex 3D environments  Planning  Robot sensing systems  Cameras  Octrees  Three-dimensional displays  Surface treatment 
Abstract: State-of-the-art coverage planning methods perform well in simple environments but take an ineffectively long time to converge to an optimal solution in complex three-dimensional (3D) environments. As more structures are present in the same volume of workspace, these methods slow down as they spend more time searching for all of the nooks and crannies concealed in three-dimensional spaces. This work presents a method for coverage planning that employs a multi-resolution hierarchical framework to solve the problem at two different levels, producing much higher efficiency than the state-of-the-art. First, a high-level algorithm separates the environment into multiple subspaces at different resolutions and computes an order of the subspaces for traversal. Second, a low-level sampling-based algorithm solves for paths within the subspaces for detailed coverage. In experiments, we evaluate our method using real-world datasets from complex three-dimensional scenes. Our method finds paths that are constantly shorter and converges at least ten times faster than the state-of-the-art. Further, we show results of a physical experiment where a lightweight UAV follows the paths to realize the coverage.


Title: Line Coverage with Multiple Robots
Key Words: computational complexity  graph theory  integer programming  linear programming  mobile robots  multi-robot systems  path planning  robot tour generation  multiple robots  line coverage problem  mixed integer linear program  NP-hard  merge-embed-merge  MEM algorithm  graph simplification  graph partitioning  Roads  Task analysis  Robot sensing systems  Routing  Heuristic algorithms  Partitioning algorithms 
Abstract: The line coverage problem is the coverage of linear environment features (e.g., road networks, power lines), modeled as 1D segments, by one or more robots while respecting resource constraints (e.g., battery capacity, flight time) for each of the robots. The robots incur direction dependent costs and resource demands as they traverse the edges. We treat the line coverage problem as an optimization problem, with the total cost of the tours as the objective, by formulating it as a mixed integer linear program (MILP). The line coverage problem is NP-hard and hence we develop a heuristic algorithm, Merge-Embed-Merge (MEM). We compare it against the optimal MILP approach and a baseline heuristic algorithm, Extended Path Scanning. We show the MEM algorithm is fast and suitable for real-time applications. To tackle large-scale problems, our approach performs graph simplification and graph partitioning, followed by robot tour generation for each of the partitioned subgraphs. We demonstrate our approach on a large graph with 4,658 edges and 4,504 vertices that represents an urban region of about 16 sq. km. We compare the performance of the algorithms on several small road networks and experimentally demonstrate the approach using UAVs on the UNC Charlotte campus road network.


Title: Active 3D Modeling via Online Multi-View Stereo
Key Words: image reconstruction  stereo image processing  low-quality surfaces  exploration trial  active 3D modeling  online multiview stereo  large-scale structure monitoring  image acquisition  reconstruction quality  view path-planning method  online MVS system  online feedbacks  image reconstruction  camera trajectory  real-time three-dimensional model construction  Three-dimensional displays  Image reconstruction  Surface reconstruction  Computational modeling  Solid modeling  Trajectory  Cameras 
Abstract: Multi-view stereo (MVS) algorithms have been commonly used to model large-scale structures. When processing MVS, image acquisition is an important issue because its reconstruction quality depends heavily on the acquired images. Recently, an explore-then-exploit strategy has been used to acquire images for MVS. This method first constructs a coarse model by exploring an entire scene using a pre-allocated camera trajectory. Then, it rescans the unreconstructed regions from the coarse model. However, this strategy is inefficient because of the frequent overlap of the initial and rescanning trajectories. Furthermore, given the complete coverage of images, MVS algorithms do not guarantee an accurate reconstruction result.In this study, we propose a novel view path-planning method based on an online MVS system. This method aims to incrementally construct the target three-dimensional (3D) model in real time. View paths are continually planned based on online feedbacks from the partially constructed model. The obtained paths fully cover low-quality surfaces while maximizing the reconstruction performance of MVS. Experimental results demonstrate that the proposed method can construct high quality 3D models with one exploration trial, without any rescanning trial as in the explore-then-exploit method.


Title: A Flexible Method for Performance Evaluation of Robot Localization
Key Words: image motion analysis  mobile robots  path planning  pose estimation  robot vision  SLAM (robots)  robot localization  research issue  mobile robotics  performance assessment  robot SLAM algorithms  localization accuracy  SLAM algorithm  benchmark datasets  motion capture  environment-specific  spatial coverage  SLAM performance evaluation  distinctive markers  robot navigation environment  generative latent optimization problem  local robot-to-marker  global robot  Simultaneous localization and mapping  Navigation  Cameras  Performance evaluation  Robot localization 
Abstract: An important research issue in mobile robotics is performance assessment of robot SLAM algorithms in terms of their localization accuracy. Typically, SLAM algorithms are evaluated with the help of benchmark datasets or expensive equipment such as motion capture. Benchmark datasets however, are environment-specific, and use of motion capture constrains spatial coverage and affordability. In this paper, we present a novel method for SLAM performance evaluation, which only uses distinctive markers (such as AR tags), randomly placed in the robot navigation environment at arbitrary locations, and observes these markers with a camera onboard of the robot. Formulated as a generative latent optimization (GLO) problem, our method uses the local robot-to-marker poses to evaluate the global robot pose estimates by a SLAM algorithm and therefore its performance. Through extensive experiments on two robots, three localization/SLAM algorithms and both LiDAR and RGB-D sensors, we demonstrate the feasibility and accuracy of our proposed method.


