total paper: 262
Title: Advanced BIT* (ABIT*): Sampling-Based Planning with Advanced Graph-Search Techniques
Key Words: approximation theory  graph theory  path planning  robots  sampling methods  search problems  sampling-based approximation  Advanced BIT*  almost-surely asymptotically optimal sampling-based planners  ABIT*  unified planning paradigm  path planning problem  advanced graph-search techniques  robotics  truncated anytime graph-based searches  RRT*  single-query  Planning  Approximation algorithms  Search problems  Path planning  Robots  Acceleration  Conferences 
Abstract: Path planning is an active area of research essential for many applications in robotics. Popular techniques include graph-based searches and sampling-based planners. These approaches are powerful but have limitations.This paper continues work to combine their strengths and mitigate their limitations using a unified planning paradigm. It does this by viewing the path planning problem as the two subproblems of search and approximation and using advanced graph-search techniques on a sampling-based approximation.This perspective leads to Advanced BIT*. ABIT* combines truncated anytime graph-based searches, such as ATD*, with anytime almost-surely asymptotically optimal sampling-based planners, such as RRT*. This allows it to quickly find initial solutions and then converge towards the optimum in an anytime manner. ABIT* outperforms existing single-query, sampling- based planners on the tested problems in ℝ4 and ℝ8, and was demonstrated on real-world problems with NASA/JPL-Caltech.


Title: Voxel-based General Voronoi Diagram for Complex Data with Application on Motion Planning
Key Words: assembly planning  CAD  computational geometry  data structures  graphics processing units  path planning  production engineering computing  rendering (computer graphics)  path planning  motion planning  assembly sequence planning  real-world CAD-scenarios  disassembly path  GVD  Voronoi voxel history  disassembly paths  general Voronoi diagram graph  hash table-based data structure  error-bounded wavefront propagation  error-bounded GPU render approach  voxel-based general Voronoi diagram  roadmap  representative vehicle data set  Octrees  Planning  Three-dimensional displays  Approximation algorithms  Task analysis  Runtime 
Abstract: One major challenge in Assembly Sequence Planning (ASP) for complex real-world CAD-scenarios is to find appropriate disassembly paths for all assembled parts. Such a path places demands on its length and clearance. In the past, it became apparent that planning the disassembly path based on the (approximate) General Voronoi Diagram (GVD) is a good approach to achieve these requirements. But for complex real-world data, every known solution for computing the GVD is either too slow or very memory consuming, even if only approximating the GVD.We present a new approach for computing the approximate GVD and demonstrate its practicability using a representative vehicle data set. We can calculate an approximation of the GVD within minutes and meet the accuracy requirement of some few millimeters for the subsequent path planning. This is achieved by voxelizing the surface with a common error-bounded GPU render approach. We then use an error-bounded wavefront propagation technique and combine it with a novel hash table-based data structure, the so-called Voronoi Voxel History (VVH). On top of the GVD, we present a novel approach for the creation of a General Voronoi Diagram Graph (GVDG) that leads to an extensive roadmap. For the later motion planning task this roadmap can be used to suggest appropriate disassembly paths.


Title: Navigating Discrete Difference Equation Governed WMR by Virtual Linear Leader Guided HMPC
Key Words: difference equations  mobile robots  multi-robot systems  nonlinear control systems  path planning  predictive control  reachability analysis  set theory  navigating discrete difference equation governed WMR  virtual linear leader guided HMPC  model predictive control  classical wheeled mobile robot navigation problem  hierarchical MPC  state-of-the-art MPC  WMR navigation  nonexistence  nontrivial linear system  under-approximate reachable set  VLL-MPC  HMPC structure  virtual linear system  under-approximate path  RRT*  Navigation  Linear systems  Stability analysis  Planning  Robots  Mathematical model  Nonlinear dynamical systems 
Abstract: In this paper, we revisit model predictive control (MPC) for the classical wheeled mobile robot (WMR) navigation problem. We prove that the reachable set based hierarchical MPC (HMPC), a state-of-the-art MPC, cannot handle WMR navigation in theory due to the non-existence of non-trivial linear system with an under-approximate reachable set of WMR. Nevertheless, we propose a virtual linear leader guided MPC (VLL-MPC) to enable HMPC structure. Different from current HMPCs, we use a virtual linear system with an under-approximate path set rather than the traditional trace set to guide the WMR. We provide a valid construction of the virtual linear leader. We prove the stability of VLL-MPC, and discuss its complexity. In the experiment, we demonstrate the advantage of VLL-MPC empirically by comparing it with NMPC, LMPC and anytime RRT* in several scenarios.


Title: Aggregation and localization of simple robots in curved environments
Key Words: friction  microrobots  mobile robots  path planning  curved environments  extremely simple robots  biomedical applications  tiny robots moves  shared external stimulus  low-friction models  environment boundaries  Robot sensing systems  Collision avoidance  Computational modeling  Biological system modeling  Propulsion 
Abstract: This paper is about the closely-related problems of localization and aggregation for extremely simple robots, for which the only available action is to move in a given direction as far as the geometry of the environment allows. Such problems may arise, for example, in biomedical applications, wherein a large group of tiny robots moves in response to a shared external stimulus. Specifically, we extend the prior work on these kinds of problems presenting two algorithms for localization in environments with curved (rather than polygonal) boundaries and under low-friction models of interaction with the environment boundaries. We present both simulations and physical demonstrations to validate the approach.


Title: Motion Primitives-based Path Planning for Fast and Agile Exploration using Aerial Robots
Key Words: aerospace robotics  collision avoidance  mobile robots  motion control  motion primitives-based path planning  agile exploration  aerial robots  path planning strategy  microaerial vehicles  volumetric representation  collision-tolerant flying robot  velocity 2.0 m/s  size 0.8 m  Vehicle dynamics  Collision avoidance  Path planning  Unmanned aerial vehicles  Educational robots  Dynamics 
Abstract: This paper presents a novel path planning strategy for fast and agile exploration using aerial robots. Tailored to the combined need for large-scale exploration of challenging and confined environments, despite the limited endurance of micro aerial vehicles, the proposed planner employs motion primitives to identify admissible paths that search the configuration space, while exploiting the dynamic flight properties of small aerial robots. Utilizing a computationally efficient volumetric representation of the environment, the planner provides fast collision-free and future-safe paths that maximize the expected exploration gain and ensure continuous fast navigation through the unknown environment. The new method is field-verified in a set of deployments relating to subterranean exploration and specifically, in both modern and abandoned underground mines in Northern Nevada utilizing a 0.55m-wide collision-tolerant flying robot exploring with a speed of up to 2m/s and navigating sections with width as small as 0.8m.


Title: Grounding Language to Landmarks in Arbitrary Outdoor Environments
Key Words: human-robot interaction  mobile robots  natural language processing  path planning  robot vision  natural language phrases  arbitrary outdoor environments  urban environments  natural language commands  robot control  semantic similarities  Natural languages  Semantics  Robots  Grounding  Training  Planning  Databases 
Abstract: Robots operating in outdoor, urban environments need the ability to follow complex natural language commands which refer to never-before-seen landmarks. Existing approaches to this problem are limited because they require training a language model for the landmarks of a particular environment before a robot can understand commands referring to those landmarks. To generalize to new environments outside of the training set, we present a framework that parses references to landmarks, then assesses semantic similarities between the referring expression and landmarks in a predefined semantic map of the world, and ultimately translates natural language commands to motion plans for a drone. This framework allows the robot to ground natural language phrases to landmarks in a map when both the referring expressions to landmarks and the landmarks themselves have not been seen during training. We test our framework with a 14-person user evaluation demonstrating an end-to-end accuracy of 76.19% in an unseen environment. Subjective measures show that users find our system to have high performance and low workload. These results demonstrate our approach enables untrained users to control a robot in large unseen outdoor environments with unconstrained natural language.


Title: ICS: Incremental Constrained Smoothing for State Estimation
Key Words: matrix decomposition  mobile robots  optimisation  path planning  robot vision  SLAM (robots)  state estimation  ICS  primal-dual method  matrix factorizations  primal-dual methods  incremental factorization  matrix structure  incremental unconstrained optimization  robot state estimate  smoothing-based estimation methods  state estimation  incremental constrained smoothing  Optimization  Smoothing methods  Time measurement  Integrated circuits  Simultaneous localization and mapping 
Abstract: A robot operating in the world constantly receives information about its environment in the form of new measurements at every time step. Smoothing-based estimation methods seek to optimize for the most likely robot state estimate using all measurements up till the current time step. Existing methods solve for this smoothing objective efficiently by framing the problem as that of incremental unconstrained optimization. However, in many cases observed measurements and knowledge of the environment is better modeled as hard constraints derived from real-world physics or dynamics. A key challenge is that the new optimality conditions introduced by the hard constraints break the matrix structure needed for incremental factorization in these incremental optimization methods. Our key insight is that if we leverage primal-dual methods, we can recover a matrix structure amenable to incremental factorization. We propose a framework ICS that combines a primal-dual method like the Augmented Lagrangian with an incremental Gauss Newton approach that reuses previously computed matrix factorizations. We evaluate ICS on a set of simulated and real-world problems involving equality constraints like object contact and inequality constraints like collision avoidance.


Title: Long-Term Robot Navigation in Indoor Environments Estimating Patterns in Traversability Changes
Key Words: mobile robots  navigation  path planning  term robot navigation  traversability changes  mobile robots  hospitals  informed decisions  probabilistic graphical model  currently unobserved locations  indoor environments  Robots  Navigation  Predictive models  Correlation  Probabilistic logic  Planning  Indoor environments 
Abstract: Nowadays, mobile robots are deployed in many indoor environments such as offices or hospitals. These environments are subject to changes in the traversability that often happen following patterns. In this paper, we investigate the problem of navigating in such environments over extended periods of time by capturing and exploiting these patterns to make informed decisions for navigation. Our approach uses a probabilistic graphical model to incrementally estimate a model of the traversability changes from the robot's observations and to make predictions at currently unobserved locations. In the belief space defined by the predictions, we plan paths that trade off the risk to encounter obstacles and the information gain of visiting unknown locations. We implemented our approach and tested it in different indoor environments. The experiments suggest that, in the long run, our approach leads robots to navigate along shorter paths compared to following a greedy shortest path policy.


Title: Optimized Foothold Planning and Posture Searching for Energy-Efficient Quadruped Locomotion over Challenging Terrains
Key Words: energy conservation  legged locomotion  motion control  optimisation  search problems  torque control  posture searching  energy-efficient quadruped locomotion  energy-efficient locomotion  legged robot  quadrupedal robot  nominal stance parameters  leg torque distribution  foothold planner  standing legs  energy-saving stance posture  stairs climbing  stairs climbing  center of gravity trajectory planner  COG  foothold planning optimization  Legged locomotion  Torque  Thigh  Hip  Knee  Energy efficiency 
Abstract: Energy-efficient locomotion is of primary importance for legged robot to extend operation time in practical applications. This paper presents an approach to achieve energy-efficient locomotion for a quadrupedal robot walking over challenging terrains. Firstly, we optimize the nominal stance parameters based on the analysis of leg torque distribution. Secondly, we proposed the foothold planner and the center of gravity (COG) trajectory planner working together to guide the robot to place its standing legs in an energy-saving stance posture. We have validated the effectiveness of our method on a real quadrupedal robot in experiments including autonomously walking on plain ground and climbing stairs.


Title: Learning Generalizable Locomotion Skills with Hierarchical Reinforcement Learning
Key Words: learning (artificial intelligence)  legged locomotion  path planning  predictive control  robot dynamics  robot kinematics  generalizable locomotion skills  hierarchical reinforcement learning  arbitrary goals  hierarchical framework  sample-efficiency  generalizability  learned locomotion skills  real-world robots  goal-oriented locomotion  diverse primitives skills  freedom robot  coarse dynamics models  primitive cycles  model predictive control framework  Daisy hexapod hardware  size 12.0 m  Hardware  Legged locomotion  Training  Task analysis  Planning  Heuristic algorithms 
Abstract: Learning to locomote to arbitrary goals on hardware remains a challenging problem for reinforcement learning. In this paper, we present a hierarchical framework that improves sample-efficiency and generalizability of learned locomotion skills on real-world robots. Our approach divides the problem of goal-oriented locomotion into two sub-problems: learning diverse primitives skills, and using model-based planning to sequence these skills. We parametrize our primitives as cyclic movements, improving sample-efficiency of learning from scratch on a 18 degrees of freedom robot. Then, we learn coarse dynamics models over primitive cycles and use them in a model predictive control framework. This allows us to learn to walk to arbitrary goals up to 12m away, after about two hours of training from scratch on hardware. Our results on a Daisy hexapod hardware and simulation demonstrate the efficacy of our approach at reaching distant targets, in different environments, and with sensory noise.


Title: Efficient Multi-Agent Trajectory Planning with Feasibility Guarantee using Relative Bernstein Polynomial
Key Words: collision avoidance  multi-agent systems  optimisation  polynomials  optimization-based approaches  erroneous optimization setup  infeasible collision constraints  sequential optimization method  dummy agents  relative Bernstein polynomial  nonconvex collision avoidance constraints  multiagent trajectory planning problems  obstacle-dense environments  grid-based approaches  Trajectory  Planning  Heuristic algorithms  Collision avoidance  Optimization  System recovery  Three-dimensional displays 
Abstract: This paper presents a new efficient algorithm which guarantees a solution for a class of multi-agent trajectory planning problems in obstacle-dense environments. Our algorithm combines the advantages of both grid-based and optimization-based approaches, and generates safe, dynamically feasible trajectories without suffering from an erroneous optimization setup such as imposing infeasible collision constraints. We adopt a sequential optimization method with dummy agents to improve the scalability of the algorithm, and utilize the convex hull property of Bernstein and relative Bernstein polynomial to replace non-convex collision avoidance constraints to convex ones. The proposed method can compute the trajectory for 64 agents on average 6.36 seconds with Intel Core i7-7700 @ 3.60GHz CPU and 16G RAM, and it reduces more than 50% of the objective cost compared to our previous work. We validate the proposed algorithm through simulation and flight tests.


Title: Optimal Sequential Task Assignment and Path Finding for Multi-Agent Robotic Assembly Planning
Key Words: assembly planning  collision avoidance  mobile robots  multi-agent systems  multi-robot systems  robotic assembly  nonholonomic differential-drive robots  optimal sequential task assignment  collision-free trajectories  robotic manufacturing  collision-free routing  multiagent robotic assembly planning  path finding  Robots  Task analysis  Schedules  Manufacturing  Collision avoidance  Routing  Production facilities 
Abstract: We study the problem of sequential task assignment and collision-free routing for large teams of robots in applications with inter-task precedence constraints (e.g., task A and task B must both be completed before task C may begin). Such problems commonly occur in assembly planning for robotic manufacturing applications, in which sub-assemblies must be completed before they can be combined to form the final product. We propose a hierarchical algorithm for computing makespan-optimal solutions to the problem. The algorithm is evaluated on a set of randomly generated problem instances where robots must transport objects between stations in a "factory" grid world environment. In addition, we demonstrate in high-fidelity simulation that the output of our algorithm can be used to generate collision-free trajectories for non-holonomic differential-drive robots.


Title: Cooperative Multi-Robot Navigation in Dynamic Environment with Deep Reinforcement Learning
Key Words: control engineering computing  learning (artificial intelligence)  mobile robots  multi-robot systems  navigation  path planning  optimal paths  multiple robots  dynamics randomization  differential drive robots  dynamic environment  obstacle complexities  multirobot navigation problem  deep reinforcement learning framework  optimal target locations  DRL based framework  navigation policy  Collision avoidance  Navigation  Robot sensing systems  Robot kinematics  Training  Adaptation models 
Abstract: The challenges of multi-robot navigation in dynamic environments lie in uncertainties in obstacle complexities, partially observation of robots, and policy implementation from simulations to the real world. This paper presents a cooperative approach to address the multi-robot navigation problem (MRNP) under dynamic environments using a deep reinforcement learning (DRL) framework, which can help multiple robots jointly achieve optimal paths despite a certain degree of obstacle complexities. The novelty of this work includes threefold: (1) developing a cooperative architecture that robots can exchange information with each other to select the optimal target locations; (2) developing a DRL based framework which can learn a navigation policy to generate the optimal paths for multiple robots; (3) developing a training mechanism based on dynamics randomization which can make the policy generalized and achieve the maximum performance in the real world. The method is tested with Gazebo simulations and 4 differential drive robots. Both simulation and experiment results validate the superior performance of the proposed method in terms of success rate and travel time when compared with the other state-of-art technologies.


Title: Adaptive Directional Path Planner for Real-Time, Energy-Efficient, Robust Navigation of Mobile Robots
Key Words: energy conservation  graph theory  mobile robots  path planning  robust control  sample based methods  sub-optimal memory-intensive  Adaptive Directional Planner algorithm  robust local path planning  autonomous navigation  form factor mobile robots  low memory footprint  robust navigation  unknown environments  complex environments  fundamental capability  robotic applications  optimal robot path planning  complex memory intensive task  adaptive directional path planner  ADP algorithm implementation  memory size 28.0 KByte  Mobile robots  Trajectory  Real-time systems  Navigation  Kinematics 
Abstract: Autonomous navigation through unknown and complex environments is a fundamental capability that is essential in almost all robotic applications. Optimal robot path planning is critical to enable efficient navigation. Path planning is a complex, compute and memory intensive task. Traditional methods employ either graph based search methods or sample based methods to implement path planning, which are sub-optimal and compute/memory-intensive. To this end, an Adaptive Directional Planner (ADP) algorithm is devised to achieve real-time, energy-efficient, memory-optimized, robust local path planning for enabling efficient autonomous navigation of mobile robots. The ADP algorithm ensures that the paths are optimal and kinematically-feasible. Further, the proposed algorithm is tested with different challenging scenarios verifying the functionality and robustness. The ADP algorithm implementation results demonstrate 40- 60X less number of nodes and 40 - 50X less execution time compared to the standard TP-RRT schemes, without compromising on accuracy. Finally, the algorithm has also been implemented as an accelerator for non-holonomic, multi-shape, small form factor mobile robots to provide a silicon solution with high performance and low memory footprint (28KB).


Title: Wasserstein Distributionally Robust Motion Planning and Control with Safety Constraints Using Conditional Value-at-Risk
Key Words: collision avoidance  decision making  mobile robots  optimisation  path planning  predictive control  probability  robust control  Wasserstein distributionally robust motion planning  safety constraints  conditional value-at-risk  optimization-based decision-making tool  safe motion planning  pre-specified threshold  probability distribution  obstacles  Wasserstein ball  available empirical distribution  out-of-sample performance guarantee  risk constraint  computationally tractable method  distributionally robust model predictive control problem  distributionally robust method  Robustness  Safety  Planning  Robots  Trajectory  Probability distribution  Collision avoidance 
Abstract: In this paper, we propose an optimization-based decision-making tool for safe motion planning and control in an environment with randomly moving obstacles. The unique feature of the proposed method is that it limits the risk of unsafety by a pre-specified threshold even when the true probability distribution of the obstacles' movements deviates, within a Wasserstein ball, from an available empirical distribution. Another advantage is that it provides a probabilistic out-of-sample performance guarantee of the risk constraint. To develop a computationally tractable method for solving the distributionally robust model predictive control problem, we propose a set of reformulation procedures using (i) the Kantorovich duality principle, (ii) the extremal representation of conditional value-at-risk, and (iii) a geometric expression of the distance to the union of halfspaces. The performance and utility of this distributionally robust method are demonstrated through simulations using a 12D quadrotor model in a 3D environment.


Title: Grasping Fragile Objects Using A Stress-Minimization Metric
Key Words: dexterous manipulators  grippers  minimisation  stress-minimization metric  homogeneous isotopic materials  SM metric measures  fragile objects grasping  optimal grasp planning algorithms  Measurement  Planning  Force  Tensile stress  Grasping  Resilience 
Abstract: We present a new method to generate optimal grasps for brittle and fragile objects using a novel stress- minimization (SM) metric. Our approach is designed for objects that are composed of homogeneous isotopic materials. Our SM metric measures the maximal resistible external wrenches that would not result in fractures in the target objects. In this paper, we propose methods to compute our new metric. We also use our SM metric to design optimal grasp planning algorithms. Finally, we compare the performance of our metric and conventional grasp metrics, including Q1,Q∞,QG11,QMSV,QVEW. Our experiments show that our SM metric takes into account the material characteristics and object shapes to indicate the fragile regions, where prior methods may not work well. We also show that the computational cost of our SM metric is on par with prior methods. Finally, we show that grasp planners guided by our metric can lower the probability of breaking target objects.


Title: Grasp Control for Enhancing Dexterity of Parallel Grippers
Key Words: dexterous manipulators  friction  grippers  manipulator dynamics  materials handling  motion control  path planning  tactile sensors  grasp control  enhancing dexterity  parallel grippers  robust grasp controller  slipping avoidance  model-based algorithm  modified LuGre friction model  rotational frictional sliding motions  limit surface concept  computationally efficient method  minimum grasping force  tangential loads  torsional loads  control modalities  robot motion  automatically generates robot motions  gripper commands  Force  Grippers  Friction  Dynamics  Mathematical model  Computational modeling  Grasping 
Abstract: A robust grasp controller for both slipping avoidance and controlled sliding is proposed based on force/tactile feedback only. The model-based algorithm exploits a modified LuGre friction model to consider rotational frictional sliding motions. The modification relies on the Limit Surface concept where a novel computationally efficient method is introduced to compute in real-time the minimum grasping force to balance tangential and torsional loads. The two control modalities are considered by the robot motion planning algorithm that automatically generates robot motions and gripper commands to solve complex manipulation tasks in a material handling application.


Title: Beyond Top-Grasps Through Scene Completion
Key Words: cameras  end effectors  grippers  image colour analysis  image sensors  path planning  position control  robot vision  camera images  grasp success rate  simulated images  top-grasps  scene completion  six-degree-of-freedom grasps  simulated viewpoints  generation method  fully convolutional grasp quality CNN  end-to-end grasp  Shape  Cameras  Grasping  Planning  Robot vision systems  Pipelines 
Abstract: Current end-to-end grasp planning methods propose grasps in the order of seconds that attain high grasp success rates on a diverse set of objects, but often by constraining the workspace to top-grasps. In this work, we present a method that allows end-to-end top-grasp planning methods to generate full six-degree-of-freedom grasps using a single RGBD view as input. This is achieved by estimating the complete shape of the object to be grasped, then simulating different viewpoints of the object, passing the simulated viewpoints to an end-to-end grasp generation method, and finally executing the overall best grasp. The method was experimentally validated on a Franka Emika Panda by comparing 429 grasps generated by the state-of-the-art Fully Convolutional Grasp Quality CNN, both on simulated and real camera images. The results show statistically significant improvements in terms of grasp success rate when using simulated images over real camera images, especially when the real camera viewpoint is angled. Code and video are available at https://irobotics.aalto.fi/beyond-topgrasps-through-scene-completion/.


Title: Dex-Net AR: Distributed Deep Grasp Planning Using a Commodity Cellphone and Augmented Reality App
Key Words: Apple computers  augmented reality  computational geometry  control engineering computing  dexterous manipulators  distributed processing  image colour analysis  image sequences  mobile computing  path planning  robot vision  smart phones  distributed deep grasp planning  commodity cellphone  augmented reality app  consumer demand  mobile phone applications  AR apps  RGB image sequence  point clouds  distributed pipeline  Dex-Net AR  Dex-Net grasp planner  error estimation  robot gripper  iPhone  ARKit  Three-dimensional displays  Cameras  Planning  Sensors  Smart phones  Feature extraction  Robots 
Abstract: Consumer demand for augmented reality (AR) in mobile phone applications, such as the Apple ARKit. Such applications have potential to expand access to robot grasp planning systems such as Dex-Net. AR apps use structure from motion methods to compute a point cloud from a sequence of RGB images taken by the camera as it is moved around an object. However, the resulting point clouds are often noisy due to estimation errors. We present a distributed pipeline, Dex-Net AR, that allows point clouds to be uploaded to a server in our lab, cleaned, and evaluated by Dex-Net grasp planner to generate a grasp axis that is returned and displayed as an overlay on the object. We implement Dex-Net AR using the iPhone and ARKit and compare results with those generated with high-performance depth sensors. The success rates with AR on harder adversarial objects are higher than traditional depth images. The server URL is https://sites.google.com/berkeley.edu/dex-net-ar/home.


Title: Center-of-Mass-based Robust Grasp Planning for Unknown Objects Using Tactile-Visual Sensors
Key Words: dexterous manipulators  grippers  path planning  robot vision  tactile sensors  Franka Emika robot arm  tactile sensors  multisensor modules  regrasp planner  slip detection  visual sensors  center-of-mass-based robust grasp planning  Grasping  Tactile sensors  Force  Robustness 
Abstract: An unstable grasp pose can lead to slip, thus an unstable grasp pose can be predicted by slip detection. A regrasp is required afterwards to correct the grasp pose in order to finish the task. In this work, we propose a novel regrasp planner with multi-sensor modules to plan grasp adjustments with the feedback from a slip detector. Then a regrasp planner is trained to estimate the location of center of mass, which helps robots find an optimal grasp pose. The dataset in this work consists of 1 025 slip experiments and 1 347 regrasps collected by one pair of tactile sensors, an RGB-D camera and one Franka Emika robot arm equipped with joint force/torque sensors. We show that our algorithm can successfully detect and classify the slip for 5 unknown test objects with an accuracy of 76.88% and a regrasp planner increases the grasp success rate by 31.0% compared to the state-of-the-art vision-based grasping algorithm.


Title: Learning View and Target Invariant Visual Servoing for Navigation
Key Words: convolutional neural nets  feedback  learning (artificial intelligence)  mobile robots  path planning  robot vision  visual servoing  deep reinforcement learning  mobile robot navigation  deep convolutional network controller  viewpoint invariant visual servoing  target invariant visual servoing  feedback control error  Visual servoing  Navigation  Visualization  Feature extraction  Task analysis  Semantics  Cameras 
Abstract: The advances in deep reinforcement learning recently revived interest in data-driven learning based approaches to navigation. In this paper we propose to learn viewpoint invariant and target invariant visual servoing for local mobile robot navigation; given an initial view and the goal view or an image of a target, we train deep convolutional network controller to reach the desired goal. We present a new architecture for this task which rests on the ability of establishing correspondences between the initial and goal view and novel reward structure motivated by the traditional feedback control error. The advantage of the proposed model is that it does not require calibration and depth information and achieves robust visual servoing in a variety of environments and targets without any parameter fine tuning. We present comprehensive evaluation of the approach and comparison with other deep learning architectures as well as classical visual servoing methods in visually realistic simulation environment [1]. The presented model overcomes the brittleness of classical visual servoing based methods and achieves significantly higher generalization capability compared to the previous learning approaches.


Title: Scaling Local Control to Large-Scale Topological Navigation
Key Words: learning (artificial intelligence)  mobile robots  path planning  robot vision  deep learning  robot perception  reliability issue  world images  mechanical constraints  local controller  large-scale visual topological navigation  large-scale environments  local control  large-scale topological navigation  Navigation  Trajectory  Robustness  Robot kinematics  Planning  Visualization 
Abstract: Visual topological navigation has been revitalized recently thanks to the advancement of deep learning that substantially improves robot perception. However, the scalability and reliability issue remain challenging due to the complexity and ambiguity of real world images and mechanical constraints of real robots. We present an intuitive approach to show that by accurately measuring the capability of a local controller, large-scale visual topological navigation can be achieved while being scalable and robust. Our approach achieves state-of-the-art results in trajectory following and planning in large-scale environments. It also generalizes well to real robots and new environments without retraining or finetuning.


Title: Zero-shot Imitation Learning from Demonstrations for Legged Robot Visual Navigation
Key Words: graphical user interfaces  humanoid robots  human-robot interaction  learning (artificial intelligence)  mobile robots  path planning  robot vision  cost-effective data collection  third-person demonstrations  camera perspectives  perspective-invariant state features  model-based imitation learning approach  action-labeled human demonstrations  effective policy  zero-shot imitation  legged robot visual navigation  training effective visual navigation policies  expert demonstrations  goal-driven visual navigation policy  high-quality navigation  Feature extraction  Navigation  Legged locomotion  Visualization  Training 
Abstract: Imitation learning is a popular approach for training effective visual navigation policies. However, collecting expert demonstrations for legged robots is challenging as these robots can be hard to control, move slowly, and cannot operate continuously for long periods of time. In this work, we propose a zero-shot imitation learning framework for training a goal-driven visual navigation policy on a legged robot from human demonstrations (third-person perspective), allowing for high-quality navigation and cost-effective data collection. However, imitation learning from third-person demonstrations raises unique challenges. First, these demonstrations are captured from different camera perspectives, which we address via a feature disentanglement network (FDN) that extracts perspective-invariant state features. Second, as transition dynamics vary between systems, we reconstruct missing action labels by either building an inverse model of the robot's dynamics in the feature space and applying it to the human demonstrations or developing a Graphic User Interface (GUI) to label human demonstrations. To train a navigation policy we use a model-based imitation learning approach with FDN and action-labeled human demonstrations. We show that our framework can learn an effective policy for a legged robot, Laikago, from human demonstrations in both simulated and real-world environments. Our approach is zero-shot as the robot never navigates the same paths during training as those at testing time. We justify our framework by performing a comparative study.


Title: CAMI - Analysis, Design and Realization of a Force-Compliant Variable Cam System
Key Words: cams (mechanical)  compliant mechanisms  end effectors  force control  legged locomotion  motion control  path planning  trajectory control  CAMI  multilegged locomotion  continuous gait transition  end effector trajectory  end effector motions  three dimensional cam system  force compliant variable cam system  bipedal robot  Legged locomotion  Trajectory  End effectors  Couplings  Shape  Actuators 
Abstract: This work presents a novel design concept that achieves multi-legged locomotion using a three-dimensional cam system. A computational framework has been developed to analyze and dimension this cam apparatus, that can perform arbitrary end effector motions within its design constraints. The mechanism enables continuous gait transition and inherent force compliance. With only two motors, any trajectory of a continuous set of gaits can be followed. One motor is used to actuate the system and a second one to morph its movement. To illustrate a possible application of this system, a working prototype of a bipedal robot is developed and validated in hardware. It showcases a smooth velocity change by transitioning through different gaits from standing still to walking fast at 124mm/s within 2.0s, while following the given end effector trajectory with an error of only 2.47mm.


Title: Hierarchical Planning in Time-Dependent Flow Fields for Marine Robots
Key Words: autonomous underwater vehicles  computational complexity  graph theory  marine vehicles  mobile robots  path planning  remotely operated vehicles  hierarchical planning  time-dependent flow fields  shortest paths  flow predictions  motion planning  slow marine robots  dynamic ocean currents  time-dependent graphs  polynomial-time algorithm  continuous trajectories  time-varying edge costs  underlying flow field  continuous algorithm  time complexity  path quality properties  autonomous marine vehicle  marine robotics  time-varying ocean predictions  East Australian Current  Planning  Robots  Vehicle dynamics  Oceans  Heuristic algorithms  Prediction algorithms  Trajectory 
Abstract: We present an efficient approach for finding shortest paths in flow fields that vary as a sequence of flow predictions over time. This approach is applicable to motion planning for slow marine robots that are subject to dynamic ocean currents. Although the problem is NP-hard in general form, we incorporate recent results from the theory of finding shortest paths in time-dependent graphs to construct a polynomial-time algorithm that finds continuous trajectories in time-dependent flow fields. The algorithm has a hierarchical structure where a graph is constructed with time-varying edge costs that are derived from sets of continuous trajectories in the underlying flow field. We show that the continuous algorithm retains the time complexity and path quality properties of the discrete graph solution, and demonstrate its application to surface and underwater vehicles including a traversal along the East Australian Current with an autonomous marine vehicle. Results show that the algorithm performs efficiently in practice and can find paths that adapt to changing ocean currents. These results are significant to marine robotics because they allow for efficient use of time-varying ocean predictions for motion planning.


Title: Navigation in the Presence of Obstacles for an Agile Autonomous Underwater Vehicle
Key Words: autonomous underwater vehicles  collision avoidance  feature extraction  mobile robots  navigation  optimisation  robot vision  stereo image processing  fly-overs  AUV  cluttered space  navigation framework  sampling-based correction procedure  obstacles detection  real-time 3D autonomous navigation  agile autonomous underwater vehicle  Trajopt  3D path-optimization planning  visual features detection  Planning  Three-dimensional displays  Navigation  Optimization  Robots  Trajectory  Cameras 
Abstract: Navigation underwater traditionally is done by keeping a safe distance from obstacles, resulting in "fly-overs" of the area of interest. Movement of an autonomous underwater vehicle (AUV) through a cluttered space, such as a shipwreck or a decorated cave, is an extremely challenging problem that has not been addressed in the past. This paper proposes a novel navigation framework utilizing an enhanced version of Trajopt for fast 3D path-optimization planning for AUVs. A sampling-based correction procedure ensures that the planning is not constrained by local minima, enabling navigation through narrow spaces. Two different modalities are proposed: planning with a known map results in efficient trajectories through cluttered spaces; operating in an unknown environment utilizes the point cloud from the visual features detected to navigate efficiently while avoiding the detected obstacles. The proposed approach is rigorously tested, both on simulation and in-pool experiments, proven to be fast enough to enable safe real-time 3D autonomous navigation for an AUV.


Title: Uncertainty Measured Markov Decision Process in Dynamic Environments
Key Words: Markov processes  mobile robots  path planning  robot motion planning  path planning method  tracking robot  dynamic environments  robot path planning  visual occlusions  moving targets  visioning  perception algorithms  partially observable Markov decision  pursuit-evasion  robot tracking  predictive path planning  Uncertainty  Planning  Robots  Markov processes  Target tracking  Probabilistic logic  Measurement uncertainty 
Abstract: Successful robot path planning is challenging in the presence of visual occlusions and moving targets. Classical methods to solve this problem have used visioning and perception algorithms in addition to partially observable markov decision processes to aid in path planning for pursuit-evasion and robot tracking. We present a predictive path planning process that measures and utilizes the uncertainty present during robot motion planning. We develop a variant of subjective logic in combination with the Markov decision process (MDP) and provide a measure for belief, disbelief, and uncertainty in relation to feasible trajectories being generated. We then model the MDP to identify the best path planning method from a list of possible choices. Our results show a high percentage accuracy based on the closest acquired proximity between a target and a tracking robot and a simplified pursuer trajectory in comparison with related work.


Title: Learning error models for graph SLAM
Key Words: autonomous aerial vehicles  graph theory  mobile robots  path planning  robot vision  SLAM (robots)  resistance distance  covisibility graph  simulated UAV coverage path  uncertainty models  monocular graph SLAM  topological features  error model learning  UAV coverage path planning trajectories  Simultaneous localization and mapping  Resistance  Uncertainty  Computational modeling  Computer architecture  Predictive models  Cameras 
Abstract: Following recent developments, this paper investigates the possibility to predict uncertainty models for monocular graph SLAM using topological features of the problem. An architecture to learn relative (i.e. inter-keyframe) uncertainty models using the resistance distance in the covisibility graph is presented. The proposed architecture is applied to simulated UAV coverage path planning trajectories and an analysis of the approaches strengths and shortcomings is provided.


Title: Real-Time UAV Path Planning for Autonomous Urban Scene Reconstruction
Key Words: autonomous aerial vehicles  computational geometry  image reconstruction  path planning  robot vision  SLAM (robots)  unmanned aerial vehicles  large-scale scene mapping  autonomous urban scene reconstruction  point cloud reconstruction  reconstruction quality  large-scale scene reconstruction  real-time UAV path planning  SLAM  Buildings  Image reconstruction  Three-dimensional displays  Path planning  Drones  Cameras  Layout 
Abstract: Unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs) are frequently used for large-scale scene mapping and reconstruction. However, in most cases, drones are operated manually, which should be more effective and intelligent. In this article, we present a method of real-time UAV path planning for autonomous urban scene reconstruction. Considering the obstacles and time costs, we utilize the top view to generate the initial path. Then we estimate the building heights and take close-up pictures that reveal building details through a SLAM framework. To predict the coverage of the scene, we propose a novel method which combines information on reconstructed point clouds and possible coverage areas. The experimental results reveal that the reconstruction quality of our method is good enough. Our method is also more time-saving than the state-of-the-arts.


Title: A Fast Marching Gradient Sampling Strategy for Motion Planning using an Informed Certificate Set
Key Words: collision avoidance  gradient methods  graph theory  mobile robots  path planning  sampling methods  convergence speed  safety certificate algorithms  fast marching gradient sampling strategy  sampling-based motion planning algorithms  marching seed  goal set  informed certificate set  planning space  RRT* algorithms  Planning  Safety  Convergence  Algorithms  Robots  Data structures  Collision avoidance 
Abstract: We present a novel fast marching gradient sampling strategy to accelerate the convergence speed of sampling-based motion planning algorithms. This strategy is based on an informed certificate set which consists of the robot states with exact collision status as well as the minimum distance and the gradient to the nearest obstacle. The informed certificate set covers almost the whole planning space such that it contains rich information for the planner. The best quality point in this set is selected as the marching seed to guide the search graph move steadily to the goal set. The distance and gradient information of the marching seed helps to generate a new sample with almost sure collision status. When a feasible solution has been found, this set can construct the restricted subset that can improve current path quality. This marching gradient sampling strategy is applied to the RRT and RRT* algorithms. Simulation experiments demonstrate that the convergence speed to a feasible solution or to the optimal solution is almost twice faster than that of the safety certificate algorithms.


Title: Privacy-Aware UAV Flights through Self-Configuring Motion Planning
Key Words: aircraft control  autonomous aerial vehicles  collision avoidance  data privacy  decision making  mobile robots  motion control  privacy-aware UAV flights  unmanned aerial vehicle  uncertain obstacles  motion planning algorithms  privacy-preserving requirements  privacy risk aware motion planning method  privacy-sensitive sensor  safety  energy hard constraints  dynamically detected restricted areas  decision making method  test flights  DJI Matrice 100 UAV  self-configuring motion planning  Privacy  Planning  Cameras  Sensors  Trajectory  Safety  Unmanned aerial vehicles 
Abstract: During flights, an unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV) may not be allowed to move across certain areas due to soft constraints such as privacy restrictions. Current methods on self-adaption focus mostly on motion planning such that the trajectory does not trespass predetermined restricted areas. When the environment is cluttered with uncertain obstacles, however, these motion planning algorithms are not flexible enough to find a trajectory that satisfies additional privacy-preserving requirements within a tight time budget during the flights. In this paper, we propose a privacy risk aware motion planning method through the reconfiguration of privacy-sensitive sensors. It minimises environmental impact by re-configuring the sensor during flight, while still guaranteeing the safety and energy hard constraints such as collision avoidance and timeliness. First, we formulate a model for assessing privacy risks of dynamically detected restricted areas. In case the UAV cannot find a feasible solution to satisfy both hard and soft constraints from the current configuration, our decision making method can then produce an optimal reconfiguration of the privacy-sensitive sensor with a more efficient trajectory. We evaluate the proposal through various simulations with different settings in a virtual environment and also validate the approach through real test flights on DJI Matrice 100 UAV.


Title: Improved C-Space Exploration and Path Planning for Robotic Manipulators Using Distance Information
Key Words: collision avoidance  manipulators  path planning  robot kinematics  trees (mathematics)  generalized bur captures large portions  free C-space  accelerated exploration  exact collision-free paths  improved C-space exploration  path planning  robotic manipulators  distance information  geometrical structure  star-like tree  arbitrary number  guaranteed collision-free edges  simple forward kinematics  RRT-like planning algorithm  generalized burs  Collision avoidance  Robot kinematics  Kinematics  Manipulators  Path planning  Planning 
Abstract: We present a simple method to quickly explore C-spaces of robotic manipulators and thus facilitate path planning. The method is based on a novel geometrical structure called generalized bur. It is a star-like tree, rooted at a given point in free C-space, with an arbitrary number of guaranteed collision-free edges computed using distance information from the workspace and simple forward kinematics. Generalized bur captures large portions of free C-space, enabling accelerated exploration. The workspace is assumed to be decomposable into a finite set of (possibly overlapping) convex obstacles. When plugged in a suitable RRT-like planning algorithm, generalized burs enable significant performance improvements, while at the same time enabling exact collision-free paths.


Title: Robust Real-time UAV Replanning Using Guided Gradient-based Optimization and Topological Paths
Key Words: autonomous aerial vehicles  gradient methods  helicopters  mobile robots  optimisation  path planning  search problems  trajectory control  quadrotor trajectory replanning  replanning method  GTO  path-guided optimization approach  topological path searching algorithm  independent trajectory optimization  output superior replanned trajectories  gradient-based trajectory optimization  UAV replanning  Splines (mathematics)  Linear programming  Trajectory optimization  Robustness  Safety 
Abstract: Gradient-based trajectory optimization (GTO) has gained wide popularity for quadrotor trajectory replanning. However, it suffers from local minima, which is not only fatal to safety but also unfavorable for smooth navigation. In this paper, we propose a replanning method based on GTO addressing this issue systematically. A path-guided optimization (PGO) approach is devised to tackle infeasible local minima, which improves the replanning success rate significantly. A topological path searching algorithm is developed to capture a collection of distinct useful paths in 3-D environments, each of which then guides an independent trajectory optimization. It activates a more comprehensive exploration of the solution space and output superior replanned trajectories. Benchmark evaluation shows that our method outplays state-of-the-art methods regarding replanning success rate and optimality. Challenging experiments of aggressive autonomous flight are presented to demonstrate the robustness of our method. We will release our implementation as an open-source package1.


Title: Learning-based Path Planning for Autonomous Exploration of Subterranean Environments
Key Words: autonomous aerial vehicles  graph theory  learning by example  mobile robots  optical radar  path planning  robot programming  sampled data systems  tunnels  autonomous exploration  subterranean environments  aerial robots  training expert  imitation learning  underground mine drifts  tunnels  graph based path planner  learning based path planning  LiDAR  range data sampling  Robot sensing systems  Path planning  Training  Training data  Planning  Robot kinematics 
Abstract: In this work we present a new methodology on learning-based path planning for autonomous exploration of subterranean environments using aerial robots. Utilizing a recently proposed graph-based path planner as a "training expert" and following an approach relying on the concepts of imitation learning, we derive a trained policy capable of guiding the robot to autonomously explore underground mine drifts and tunnels. The algorithm utilizes only a short window of range data sampled from the onboard LiDAR and achieves an exploratory behavior similar to that of the training expert with a more than an order of magnitude reduction in computational cost, while simultaneously relaxing the need to maintain a consistent and online reconstructed map of the environment. The trained path planning policy is extensively evaluated both in simulation and experimentally within field tests relating to the autonomous exploration of underground mines.


Title: Distributed Rotor-Based Vibration Suppression for Flexible Object Transport and Manipulation
Key Words: autonomous aerial vehicles  control engineering computing  controllability  helicopters  mechanical engineering computing  mobile robots  optimisation  path planning  rotors  vibration control  RVM design  optimal placement  flexible object transport  manipulated object  object size  quadrotor usage  distributed RVMs  constrained optimization problem  aerial-ground manipulator system  robot-based vibration suppression module  distributed rotor-based vibration suppression  controllability gramian  multiple aerial-ground manipulator system  Rotors  Vibrations  Mathematical model  Manipulators  Controllability  Torque 
Abstract: The RVM (Robot-based Vibration Suppression Modules) is proposed for the manipulation and transport of a large flexible object. Since the RVM is easily attachable/detachable to the object, this RVM allows distributing over the manipulated object so that it is scalable to the object size. The composition of the system is partly motivated by the MAGMaS (Multiple Aerial-Ground Manipulator System) [1]- [3], however, since the quadrotor usage is mechanically too complicated and its design is not optimized for manipulation, thus we overcome these limitations using distributed RVMs and newly developed theory. For this, we first provide a constrained optimization problem of RVM design with the minimum number of rotors, so that the feasible thrust force is maximized while it minimizes undesirable wrench and its own weight. Then, we derive the full dynamics and elucidate a controllability condition with multiple distributed RVMs and show that even if multiple, their structures turn out similar to [2] composed with a single quadrotor. We also elucidate the optimal placement of the RVM via the usage of controllability gramian which is not even alluded in [2] and established for the first time here. Experiments are performed to demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed theory.


Title: Learning to Drive Off Road on Smooth Terrain in Unstructured Environments Using an On-Board Camera and Sparse Aerial Images
Key Words: collision avoidance  mobile robots  off-road vehicles  robot programming  robot vision  supervised learning  autonomous driving  vision based controllers  navigation learning  model robustmess  planning foresight  self supervised method  collision avoidance  sparse aerial images  off road driving  smooth terrain traversal  visual obstructions  on-board sensors  terrain roughness  model free reinforcement learning  unstructured outdoor environments  on-board camera  rough terrain  Predictive models  Navigation  Cameras  Planning  Computational modeling  Visualization  Robots 
Abstract: We present a method for learning to drive on smooth terrain while simultaneously avoiding collisions in challenging off-road and unstructured outdoor environments using only visual inputs. Our approach applies a hybrid model-based and model-free reinforcement learning method that is entirely self-supervised in labeling terrain roughness and collisions using on-board sensors. Notably, we provide both first-person and overhead aerial image inputs to our model. We nd that the fusion of these complementary inputs improves planning foresight and makes the model robust to visual obstructions. Our results show the ability to generalize to environments with plentiful vegetation, various types of rock, and sandy trails. During evaluation, our policy attained 90% smooth terrain traversal and reduced the proportion of rough terrain driven over by 6.1 times compared to a model using only first-person imagery. Video and project details can be found at www.cim.mcgill.ca/mrl/offroad_driving/.


Title: Learning How to Walk: Warm-starting Optimal Control Solver with Memory of Motion
Key Words: humanoid robots  iterative methods  learning (artificial intelligence)  legged locomotion  motion control  optimal control  path planning  regression analysis  trajectory control  optimal control solver  locomotion task  humanoid robot  HPP Loco3D  versatile locomotion planner  whole-body trajectory  regression problem  single-step motion  multistep motion  predicted motion  Crocoddyl control solver  Trajectory  Databases  Optimal control  Task analysis  Legged locomotion  Ground penetrating radar 
Abstract: In this paper, we propose a framework to build a memory of motion for warm-starting an optimal control solver for the locomotion task of a humanoid robot. We use HPP Loco3D, a versatile locomotion planner, to generate offline a set of dynamically consistent whole-body trajectory to be stored as the memory of motion. The learning problem is formulated as a regression problem to predict a single-step motion given the desired contact locations, which is used as a building block for producing multi-step motions. The predicted motion is then used as a warm-start for the fast optimal control solver Crocoddyl. We have shown that the approach manages to reduce the required number of iterations to reach the convergence from ~9.5 to only ~3.0 iterations for the single-step motion and from ~6.2 to ~4.5 iterations for the multi-step motion, while maintaining the solution's quality.


Title: Reliable Trajectories for Dynamic Quadrupeds using Analytical Costs and Learned Initializations
Key Words: learning (artificial intelligence)  legged locomotion  motion control  navigation  nonlinear programming  path planning  predictive control  reliability  robot dynamics  robust control  trajectory control  dynamic quadrupeds  dynamic traversal  legged robotics  robust dynamic motion  uneven terrain navigation  TOWR  learning based scheme  whole body tracking controller  trajectory optimization for walking robots  model predictive control  dynamic trajectory reliability  nonlinear program  dynamic motions  Legged locomotion  Dynamics  Foot  Trajectory optimization 
Abstract: Dynamic traversal of uneven terrain is a major objective in the field of legged robotics. The most recent model predictive control approaches for these systems can generate robust dynamic motion of short duration; however, planning over a longer time horizon may be necessary when navigating complex terrain. A recently-developed framework, Trajectory Optimization for Walking Robots (TOWR), computes such plans but does not guarantee their reliability on real platforms, under uncertainty and perturbations. We extend TOWR with analytical costs to generate trajectories that a state-of-the-art whole-body tracking controller can successfully execute. To reduce online computation time, we implement a learning-based scheme for initialization of the nonlinear program based on offline experience. The execution of trajectories as long as 16 footsteps and 5.5 s over different terrains by a real quadruped demonstrates the effectiveness of the approach on hardware. This work builds toward an online system which can efficiently and robustly replan dynamic trajectories.


Title: On the Hardware Feasibility of Nonlinear Trajectory Optimization for Legged Locomotion based on a Simplified Dynamics
Key Words: hydraulic actuators  legged locomotion  motion control  path planning  position control  robot dynamics  HyQ robot  Hydraulically actuated Quadruped robot  simplified nonlinear nonconvex trajectory optimization  single rigid body dynamics-based trajectory optimizer  leg collision  leg model  joint positions  admissible contact forces  joint-torque limits  challenging terrain  robust motions  feasibility constraints  motion planning  computational efficiency  simplified dynamics  legged locomotion  nonlinear trajectory optimization  hardware feasibility  Legged locomotion  Foot  Collision avoidance  Force  Trajectory  Aerodynamics 
Abstract: Simplified models are useful to increase the computational efficiency of a motion planning algorithm, but their lack of accuracy have to be managed. We propose two feasibility constraints to be included in a Single Rigid Body Dynamics-based trajectory optimizer in order to obtain robust motions in challenging terrain. The first one finds an approximate relationship between joint-torque limits and admissible contact forces, without requiring the joint positions. The second one proposes a leg model to prevent leg collision with the environment. Such constraints have been included in a simplified nonlinear non-convex trajectory optimization problem. We demonstrate the feasibility of the resulting motion plans both in simulation and on the Hydraulically actuated Quadruped (HyQ) robot, considering experiments on an irregular terrain.


Title: Agile Legged-Wheeled Reconfigurable Navigation Planner Applied on the CENTAURO Robot
Key Words: legged locomotion  motion control  navigation  path planning  search problems  CENTAURO robot  agile legged wheeled reconfigurable navigation planner  hybrid legged-wheeled robots  Theta* based planner  trapezium-like search  Robot kinematics  Mobile robots  Planning  Wheels  Navigation  Collision avoidance 
Abstract: Hybrid legged-wheeled robots such as the CEN-TAURO, are capable of varying their footprint polygon to carry out various agile motions. This property can be advantageous for wheeled-only planning in cluttered spaces, which is our focus. In this paper, we present an improved algorithm that builds upon our previously introduced preliminary footprint varying A* planner, which was based on the rectangular symmetry of the foot support polygon. In particular, we introduce a Theta* based planner with trapezium-like search, which aims to further reduce the limitations imposed upon the wheeled-only navigation of the CENTAURO robot by the low-dimensional search space, maintaining the real-time computational efficiency. The method is tested on the simulated and real full-size CENTAURO robot in cluttered environments.


Title: Planning for the Unexpected: Explicitly Optimizing Motions for Ground Uncertainty in Running
Key Words: legged locomotion  motion control  optimisation  robot dynamics  ground uncertainty  actuation plans  dynamic model  bipedal running  fixed body trajectory  passive dynamics  reduced order model  emergent robustness  legged robots  legged locomotion  linked inputs  input linking  hybrid dynamics  running model  optimization procedure  standard trajectory optimization  robust gaits  Legged locomotion  Springs  Dynamics  Foot  Robustness  Acceleration 
Abstract: We propose a method to generate actuation plans for a reduced order, dynamic model of bipedal running. This method explicitly enforces robustness to ground uncertainty. The plan generated is not a fixed body trajectory that is aggressively stabilized: instead, the plan interacts with the passive dynamics of the reduced order model to create emergent robustness. The goal is to create plans for legged robots that will be robust to imperfect perception of the environment, and to work with dynamics that are too complex to optimize in real-time. Working within this dynamic model of legged locomotion, we optimize a set of disturbance cases together with the nominal case, all with linked inputs. The input linking is nontrivial due to the hybrid dynamics of the running model but our solution is effective and has analytical gradients. The optimization procedure proposed is significantly slower than a standard trajectory optimization, but results in robust gaits that reject disturbances extremely effectively without any replanning required.


Title: One-Shot Multi-Path Planning for Robotic Applications Using Fully Convolutional Networks
Key Words: convolutional neural nets  iterative methods  mobile robots  neurocontrollers  path planning  robot action execution  motion trajectory  iterative methods  fully convolutional neural network  network prediction iteration  optimal paths  single path predictions  simultaneously generated paths  shot multipath planning  robotic applications  Two dimensional displays  Three-dimensional displays  Training  Robots  Path planning  Prediction algorithms  Planning 
Abstract: Path planning is important for robot action execution, since a path or a motion trajectory for a particular action has to be defined first before the action can be executed. Most of the current approaches are iterative methods where the trajectory is generated by predicting the next state based on the current state. Here we propose a novel method by utilising a fully convolutional neural network, which allows generation of complete paths even for several agents with one network prediction iteration. We demonstrate that our method is able to successfully generate optimal or close to optimal paths (less than 10% longer) in more than 99% of the cases for single path predictions in 2D and 3D environments. Furthermore, we show that the network is - without specific training on such cases - able to create (close to) optimal paths in 96% of the cases for two and in 84% of the cases for three simultaneously generated paths.


Title: Path-Following Model Predictive Control of Ballbots
Key Words: mobile robots  predictive control  robot dynamics  model predictive control  path-following tasks  dynamically unstable mobile robots  single ball  simplied version  physical ballbot system  high fidelity model  online implementation  quaternion-based model  Robots  Solid modeling  Friction  Quaternions  Planning  Acceleration  Trajectory 
Abstract: This paper introduces a novel approach for model predictive control of ballbots for path-following tasks. Ballbots are dynamically unstable mobile robots which are designed to balance on a single ball. The model presented in this paper is a simplied version of a full quaternion-based model of ballbots' underactuated dynamics which is suited for online implementation. Furthermore, the approach is extended to handle nearby obstacles directly in the MPC formulation. The presented controller is validated through simulation on a high fidelity model as well as through real-world experiments on a physical ballbot system.


Title: Controlling Fast Height Variation of an Actively Articulated Wheeled Humanoid Robot Using Center of Mass Trajectory
Key Words: adaptive control  humanoid robots  legged locomotion  motion control  nonlinear dynamical systems  optimal control  path planning  quadratic programming  robot dynamics  robot kinematics  robust control  splines (mathematics)  stability criteria  trajectory control  task-space inverse dynamics controller  optimal 7th order spline coefficients  dynamic stability  TSID controller  simplified passive dynamics model  Aerobot platform  fast height adaptation  actively articulated wheeled humanoid robot  center of mass trajectory  hybrid wheel-legged robots  complex terrain  purely wheeled morphologies  highly adaptive behaviours  nonlinear dynamics control problem  hybrid humanoid platform  offline trajectory optimisation  optimal center of mass kinematic trajectories  fast height variation control  nonlinear zero moment point  optimal control  sequential quadratic programming  robot kinematics  stability criterion  motion plan  task Jacobians  robust control  Aerodynamics  Mathematical model  Acceleration  Robot kinematics  Stability analysis 
Abstract: Hybrid wheel-legged robots have begun to demonstrate the ability to adapt to complex terrain traditionally inaccessible to purely wheeled morphologies. Further research is needed into how their dynamics can be optimally controlled for developing highly adaptive behaviours on challenging terrain. Using optimal center of mass (COM) kinematic trajectories, this work examines the nonlinear dynamics control problem for fast height adaptation on the hybrid humanoid platform known as Aerobot. We explore the dynamics control problem through experimentation with an offline trajectory optimisation (TO) method and a task-space inverse dynamics (TSID) controller for varying the robot's height. Our TO approach uses sequential quadratic programming (SQP) to solve optimal 7th order spline coefficients for the robot's kinematics. The nonlinear Zero Moment Point (ZMP) is used to model a stability criterion that is constrained in the TO problem to ensure dynamic stability. Our TSID controller follows motion plans based on using task jacobians and a simplified passive dynamics model of the Aerobot platform. Results exhibit fast height adaptation on the Aerobot platform with significantly differing results between the control methods that prompts new research into how it may be controlled online.


Title: Learning to Generate 6-DoF Grasp Poses with Reachability Awareness
Key Words: convolutional neural nets  learning systems  manipulators  neurocontrollers  stability  3D CNN  6-DoF grasp poses  reachability awareness  voxel-based deep 3D convolutional neural network  reachability predictor  robot  grasp pose stability  Grasping  Three-dimensional displays  Robot kinematics  Planning  Measurement  Data models  Grasping  Deep Learning in Robotics and Automation  Perception for Grasping and Manipulation 
Abstract: Motivated by the stringent requirements of unstructured real-world where a plethora of unknown objects reside in arbitrary locations of the surface, we propose a voxel-based deep 3D Convolutional Neural Network (3D CNN) that generates feasible 6-DoF grasp poses in unrestricted workspace with reachability awareness. Unlike the majority of works that predict if a proposed grasp pose within the restricted workspace will be successful solely based on grasp pose stability, our approach further learns a reachability predictor that evaluates if the grasp pose is reachable or not from robot's own experience. To avoid the laborious real training data collection, we exploit the power of simulation to train our networks on a large-scale synthetic dataset. This work is an early attempt that simultaneously learns grasping reachability while proposing feasible grasp poses with 3D CNN. Experimental results in both simulation and real-world demonstrate that our approach outperforms several other methods and achieves 82.5% grasping success rate on unknown objects.


Title: Enhancing Grasp Pose Computation in Gripper Workspace Spheres
Key Words: computational geometry  dexterous manipulators  grippers  path planning  pose estimation  position control  robot vision  grasp pose computation  gripper workspace spheres  registered point cloud  gripper position sampling  orientation sampling  object orientation estimation  jaw gripper  Franka Panda gripper  geometric based methods  multifingered hands  Intel RealSense-D435 depth camera  Grippers  Three-dimensional displays  Ellipsoids  Grasping  Measurement  Shape  Planning  grasping  manipulation 
Abstract: In this paper, enhancement to the novel grasp planning algorithm based on gripper workspace spheres is presented. Our development requires a registered point cloud of the target from different views, assuming no prior knowledge of the object, nor any of its properties. This work features a new set of metrics for grasp pose candidates evaluation, as well as exploring the impact of high object sampling on grasp success rates. In addition to gripper position sampling, we now perform orientation sampling about the x, y, and z-axes, hence the grasping algorithm no longer require object orientation estimation. Successful experiments have been conducted on a simple jaw gripper (Franka Panda gripper) as well as a complex, high Degree of Freedom (DoF) hand (Allegro hand) as a proof of its versatility. Higher grasp success rates of 76% and 85.5% respectively has been reported by real world experiments.


Title: BatVision: Learning to See 3D Spatial Layout with Two Ears
Key Words: acoustic signal processing  audio signal processing  bioacoustics  cameras  ear  image colour analysis  image sensors  mechanoception  mobile robots  object detection  path planning  robot vision  stereo image processing  visual perception  machine vision  3D spatial layout  ears  nonvisual perception  artificial systems  ultrasound complement camera-based vision  information gain  harness sound  machine perception  low- cost BatVision system  short chirps  artificial human pinnae pair  stereo camera  color images  scene depths  trained BatVision  2D visual scenes  vision system  robot navigation  Microphones  Visualization  Ear  Chirp  Cameras  Three-dimensional displays  Training 
Abstract: Many species have evolved advanced non-visual perception while artificial systems fall behind. Radar and ultrasound complement camera-based vision but they are often too costly and complex to set up for very limited information gain. In nature, sound is used effectively by bats, dolphins, whales, and humans for navigation and communication. However, it is unclear how to best harness sound for machine perception.Inspired by bats' echolocation mechanism, we design a low- cost BatVision system that is capable of seeing the 3D spatial layout of space ahead by just listening with two ears. Our system emits short chirps from a speaker and records returning echoes through microphones in an artificial human pinnae pair. During training, we additionally use a stereo camera to capture color images for calculating scene depths. We train a model to predict depth maps and even grayscale images from the sound alone. During testing, our trained BatVision provides surprisingly good predictions of 2D visual scenes from two 1D audio signals. Such a sound to vision system would benefit robot navigation and machine vision, especially in low-light or no-light conditions. Our code and data are publicly available.


Title: Reliable frame-to-frame motion estimation for vehicle-mounted surround-view camera systems
Key Words: cameras  distance measurement  mobile robots  motion estimation  optimisation  path planning  robot vision  frame-to-frame visual odometry  vehicle-mounted surround-view camera system  reliable frame-to-frame motion estimation  vehicle-mounted surround-view camera systems  surround-view multicamera system  autonomous driving  3D point related optimization variables  two-view optimization scheme  nonholonomic characteristics  relative displacements  nonholonomic vehicle motion  overly simplified assumptions  single camera  existing camera  relative vehicle displacement  Conferences  Automation  Reliability  Motion estimation  Cameras  Robot vision systems 
Abstract: Modern vehicles are often equipped with a surround-view multi-camera system. The current interest in autonomous driving invites the investigation of how to use such systems for a reliable estimation of relative vehicle displacement. Existing camera pose algorithms either work for a single camera, make overly simplified assumptions, are computationally expensive, or simply become degenerate under non-holonomic vehicle motion. In this paper, we introduce a new, reliable solution able to handle all kinds of relative displacements in the plane despite the possibly non-holonomic characteristics. We furthermore introduce a novel two-view optimization scheme which minimizes a geometrically relevant error without relying on 3D point related optimization variables. Our method leads to highly reliable and accurate frame-to-frame visual odometry with a full-size, vehicle-mounted surround-view camera system.


Title: Enabling Topological Planning with Monocular Vision
Key Words: learning (artificial intelligence)  mobile robots  multi-agent systems  path planning  robot vision  sensors  SLAM (robots)  heuristic priors  intelligent planning  monocular SLAM  low texture  highly cluttered environments  robust sparse map representation  monocular vision  learned sensor  high-level structure  sparse vertices  known free space  mapping technique  subgoal planning applications  enabling topological planning  topological strategies  navigation  possible actions  Planning  Image edge detection  Navigation  Robot sensing systems  Buildings  Robustness 
Abstract: Topological strategies for navigation meaningfully reduce the space of possible actions available to a robot, allowing use of heuristic priors or learning to enable computationally efficient, intelligent planning. The challenges in estimating structure with monocular SLAM in low texture or highly cluttered environments have precluded its use for topological planning in the past. We propose a robust sparse map representation that can be built with monocular vision and overcomes these shortcomings. Using a learned sensor, we estimate high-level structure of an environment from streaming images by detecting sparse "vertices" (e.g., boundaries of walls) and reasoning about the structure between them. We also estimate the known free space in our map, a necessary feature for planning through previously unknown environments. We show that our mapping technique can be used on real data and is sufficient for planning and exploration in simulated multi-agent search and learned subgoal planning applications.


Title: DeepMEL: Compiling Visual Multi-Experience Localization into a Deep Neural Network
Key Words: distance measurement  image colour analysis  mobile robots  neurocontrollers  path planning  pose estimation  robot vision  robust control  stereo image processing  outdoor driving  deep neural network  visual odometry  vision-based path following  unstructured outdoor environments  visual multiexperience localization  colour-constant imaging  multiexperience VT&R  DeepMEL  stereo visual teach and repeat  robust long-range path following  environmental conditions  pose estimates  in-the-loop path following  Pose estimation  Image edge detection  Neural networks  Robots  Lighting  Snow 
Abstract: Vision-based path following allows robots to autonomously repeat manually taught paths. Stereo Visual Teach and Repeat (VT&R) [1] accomplishes accurate and robust long-range path following in unstructured outdoor environments across changing lighting, weather, and seasons by relying on colour-constant imaging [2] and multi-experience localization [3]. We leverage multi-experience VT&R together with two datasets of outdoor driving on two separate paths spanning different times of day, weather, and seasons to teach a deep neural network to predict relative pose for visual odometry (VO) and for localization with respect to a path. In this paper we run experiments exclusively on datasets to study how the network generalizes across environmental conditions. Based on the results we believe that our system achieves relative pose estimates sufficiently accurate for in-the-loop path following and that it is able to localize radically different conditions against each other directly (i.e. winter to spring and day to night), a capability that our hand-engineered system does not have.


Title: Velocity Field based Active-Assistive Control for Upper Limb Rehabilitation Exoskeleton Robot
Key Words: biomechanics  Kalman filters  medical robotics  motion control  observers  path planning  patient rehabilitation  torque control  wearable robots  upper limb rehabilitation exoskeleton robot  time-dependent trajectories  task-based rehabilitation exercise  multijoint motion  assistive mechanism  active-assistive control system  joint-position-dependent velocity field  task motion pattern  time-independent assistance  active motions  assistive motions  rehabilitation task  single joint tasks  Kalman filter based interactive torque observer  subject active motion intention  subject torque exertion  Task analysis  Torque  Robots  Kalman filters  Observers  Control systems  Sensors 
Abstract: There are limitations of conventional active-assistive control for upper limb rehabilitation exoskeleton robot, such as 1). prior time-dependent trajectories are generally required, 2). task-based rehabilitation exercise involving multi-joint motion is hard to implement, and 3). assistive mechanism normally is so inflexible that the resulting exercise performed by the subjects becomes inefficient. In this paper, we propose a novel velocity field based active-assistive control system to address these issues. First, we design a Kalman filter based interactive torque observer to obtain subjects' active intention of motion. Next, a joint-position-dependent velocity field which can be automatically generated via the task motion pattern is proposed to provide the time-independent assistance to the subjects. We further propose a novel integration method that combines the active and assistive motions based on the performance and the involvement of subjects to guide them to perform the task more voluntarily and precisely. The experiment results show that both the execution time and the subjects' torque exertion are reduced while performing both given single joint tasks and task-oriented multi-joint tasks as compared with the related work in the literature. To sum up, the proposed system not only can efficiently retain subjects' active intention but also can assist them to accomplish the rehabilitation task more precisely.


Title: Prediction of Human Full-Body Movements with Motion Optimization and Recurrent Neural Networks
Key Words: gradient methods  human-robot interaction  image motion analysis  mobile robots  optimisation  path planning  recurrent neural nets  robot vision  robot trajectory planning  gradient-based trajectory optimization  human full-body movement prediction  motion prediction  trajectory optimization  environmental constraints  short-term dynamics  long-term prediction  internal body dynamics  short-term prediction  recurrent neural network  motion optimization  Optimization  Trajectory  Predictive models  Recurrent neural networks  Collision avoidance  Robot kinematics 
Abstract: Human movement prediction is difficult as humans naturally exhibit complex behaviors that can change drastically from one environment to the next. In order to alleviate this issue, we propose a prediction framework that decouples short-term prediction, linked to internal body dynamics, and long-term prediction, linked to the environment and task constraints. In this work we investigate encoding short-term dynamics in a recurrent neural network, while we account for environmental constraints, such as obstacle avoidance, using gradient-based trajectory optimization. Experiments on real motion data demonstrate that our framework improves the prediction with respect to state-of-the-art motion prediction methods, as it accounts to beforehand unseen environmental structures. Moreover we demonstrate on an example, how this framework can be used to plan robot trajectories that are optimized to coordinate with a human partner.


Title: Predicting and Optimizing Ergonomics in Physical Human-Robot Cooperation Tasks
Key Words: biomechanics  ergonomics  graph theory  human-robot interaction  mobile robots  multi-robot systems  path planning  telerobotics  32 DoF bimanual mobile robot  ergonomic-enhanced planner  reduced ergonomic cost  physical human-robot cooperation tasks  action sequences  continuous physical interaction  computational model  ergonomics assessment  human motion capture data  prediction model  informed graph search algorithm  ergonomic assessment  bimanual human-robot cooperation tasks  Ergonomics  Robots  Task analysis  Optimization  Predictive models  Computational modeling  Force 
Abstract: This paper presents a method to incorporate ergonomics into the optimization of action sequences for bi-manual human-robot cooperation tasks with continuous physical interaction. Our first contribution is a novel computational model of the human that allows prediction of an ergonomics assessment corresponding to each step in a task. The model is learned from human motion capture data in order to predict the human pose as realistically as possible. The second contribution is a combination of this prediction model with an informed graph search algorithm, which allows computation of human-robot cooperative plans with improved ergonomics according to the incorporated method for ergonomic assessment. The concepts have been evaluated in simulation and in a small user study in which the subjects manipulate a large object with a 32 DoF bimanual mobile robot as partner. For all subjects, the ergonomic-enhanced planner shows their reduced ergonomic cost compared to a baseline planner.


Title: VariPath: A Database for Modelling the Variance of Human Pathways in Manual and HRC Processes with Heavy-Duty Robots
Key Words: human-robot interaction  industrial robots  occupational safety  path planning  heavy-duty robots  human pathway variations  human-robot collaboration  HRC process  women walking pathways  varipath database  planning process  safety  Legged locomotion  Service robots  Task analysis  Planning  Atmospheric measurements  Particle measurements 
Abstract: Unlike robots, humans do not have constant movements. Their pathways are individually changeable and influenced by circumstances. This paper presents a method to investigate human pathway variations in a real study. In systematically selected tasks, human pathways are examined for 100 participants in manual and human-robot collaboration (HRC) scenarios. As a result, the variations of pathways are presented depending on various features: e.g. in nearly all cases the variance of women's walking pathways is smaller than that of men. VariPath database can be used in any planning process of manual or HRC scenarios to ensure safety and efficiency.


Title: Distance and Steering Heuristics for Streamline-Based Flow Field Planning
Key Words: computational fluid dynamics  flow simulation  marine robots  mobile robots  path planning  robot dynamics  artificial flow field  East Australian current  streamline-based flow field planning  motion planning  streamline-based planning  fluid dynamics  travel distance  incompressible flows  ocean currents  distance functions  Euclidean distance  stream function  steering heuristics  ocean prediction data  autonomous marine robots  Planning  Aerospace electronics  Vehicle dynamics  Two dimensional displays  Space exploration  Space vehicles  Oceans 
Abstract: Motion planning for vehicles under the influence of flow fields can benefit from the idea of streamline-based planning, which exploits ideas from fluid dynamics to achieve computational efficiency. Important to such planners is an efficient means of computing the travel distance and direction between two points in free space, but this is difficult to achieve in strong incompressible flows such as ocean currents. We propose two useful distance functions in analytical form that combine Euclidean distance with values of the stream function associated with a flow field, and with an estimation of the strength of the opposing flow between two points. Further, we propose steering heuristics that are useful for steering towards a sampled point. We evaluate these ideas by integrating them with RRT* and comparing the algorithm's performance with state-of-the-art methods in an artificial flow field and in actual ocean prediction data in the region of the dominant East Australian Current between Sydney and Brisbane. Results demonstrate the method's computational efficiency and ability to find high-quality paths outperforming state-of-the-art methods, and show promise for practical use with autonomous marine robots.


Title: Shared Control Templates for Assistive Robotics
Key Words: assisted living  handicapped aids  manipulators  medical robotics  mobile robots  path planning  service robots  constraint-based shared control  specific user command mappings  task execution  impairments  control interface  motor disability  light-weight robotic manipulators  assistive robotics  shared control templates  low-dimensional interface  high-dimensional tasks  human-readable format  state transitions  Task analysis  Robot kinematics  Manipulators  Wheelchairs  Manifolds  Rehabilitation robotics 
Abstract: Light-weight robotic manipulators can be used to restore the manipulation capability of people with a motor disability. However, manipulating the environment poses a complex task, especially when the control interface is of low bandwidth, as may be the case for users with impairments. Therefore, we propose a constraint-based shared control scheme to define skills which provide support during task execution. This is achieved by representing a skill as a sequence of states, with specific user command mappings and different sets of constraints being applied in each state. New skills are defined by combining different types of constraints and conditions for state transitions, in a human-readable format. We demonstrate its versatility in a pilot experiment with three activities of daily living. Results show that even complex, high-dimensional tasks can be performed with a low-dimensional interface using our shared control approach.


Title: VALID: A Comprehensive Virtual Aerial Image Dataset
Key Words: computer vision  feature extraction  image classification  image segmentation  object detection  stereo image processing  aerial imagery  unmanned aerial vehicle tasks  single ground truth type  virtual environment  high-resolution images  virtual scenes  comprehensive virtual aerial image dataset  visual ground truth data  Image segmentation  Semantics  Task analysis  Object detection  Image color analysis  Benchmark testing  Labeling 
Abstract: Aerial imagery plays an important role in land-use planning, population analysis, precision agriculture, and unmanned aerial vehicle tasks. However, existing aerial image datasets generally suffer from the problem of inaccurate labeling, single ground truth type, and few category numbers. In this work, we implement a simulator that can simultaneously acquire diverse visual ground truth data in the virtual environment. Based on that, we collect a comprehensive Virtual AeriaL Image Dataset named VALID, consisting of 6690 high-resolution images, all annotated with panoptic segmentation on 30 categories, object detection with oriented bounding box, and binocular depth maps, collected in 6 different virtual scenes and 5 various ambient conditions (sunny, dusk, night, snow and fog). To our knowledge, VALID is the first aerial image dataset that can provide panoptic level segmentation and complete dense depth maps. We analyze the characteristics of VALID and evaluate state-of-the-art methods for multiple tasks to provide reference baselines. The experiment results demonstrate that VALID is well presented and challenging. The dataset is available at https://sites.google.com/view/valid-dataset/.


Title: Dynamic SLAM: The Need For Speed
Key Words: feature extraction  image motion analysis  image segmentation  mobile robots  path planning  robot vision  SLAM (robots)  rigid moving objects  static structure  dynamic structure  rigid objects  object-aware dynamic SLAM algorithm  model-free  significant motion constraints  3D models  SLAM based approaches  unstructured dynamic environments  autonomous systems  increased deployment  simultaneous localisation  static world assumption  Simultaneous localization and mapping  Heuristic algorithms  Dynamics  Three-dimensional displays  Solid modeling  Tracking 
Abstract: The static world assumption is standard in most simultaneous localisation and mapping (SLAM) algorithms. Increased deployment of autonomous systems to unstructured dynamic environments is driving a need to identify moving objects and estimate their velocity in real-time. Most existing SLAM based approaches rely on a database of 3D models of objects or impose significant motion constraints. In this paper, we propose a new feature-based, model-free, object-aware dynamic SLAM algorithm that exploits semantic segmentation to allow estimation of motion of rigid objects in a scene without the need to estimate the object poses or have any prior knowledge of their 3D models. The algorithm generates a map of dynamic and static structure and has the ability to extract velocities of rigid moving objects in the scene. Its performance is demonstrated on simulated, synthetic and real-world datasets.


Title: A Generative Approach for Socially Compliant Navigation
Key Words: learning (artificial intelligence)  mobile robots  optimisation  path planning  robot vision  socially compliant navigation  robots navigation  socially compliant behavior  optimization objectives  inverse reinforcement learning approaches  natural behavior  generative navigation algorithm  navigation path  latent social rules  trained social navigation behavior  NaviGAN  Navigation  Robots  Force  Generators  Trajectory  Learning (artificial intelligence)  Collision avoidance 
Abstract: Robots navigating in human crowds need to optimize their paths not only for their task performance but also for their compliance to social norms. One of the key challenges in this context is the lack of standard metrics for evaluating and optimizing a socially compliant behavior. Existing works in social navigation can be grouped according to the differences in their optimization objectives. For instance, the reinforcement learning approaches tend to optimize on the comfort aspect of the socially compliant navigation, whereas the inverse reinforcement learning approaches are designed to achieve natural behavior. In this paper, we propose NaviGAN, a generative navigation algorithm that jointly optimizes both of the comfort and naturalness aspects. Our approach is designed as an adversarial training framework that can learn to generate a navigation path that is both optimized for achieving a goal and for complying with latent social rules. A set of experiments has been carried out on multiple datasets to demonstrate the strengths of the proposed approach quantitatively. We also perform extensive experiments using a physical robot in a realworld environment to qualitatively evaluate the trained social navigation behavior. The video recordings of the robot experiments can be found in the link: https://youtu.be/61blDymjCpw.


Title: A New Path Planning Architecture to Consider Motion Uncertainty in Natural Environment
Key Words: collision avoidance  mobile robots  motion control  probability  random processes  trees (mathematics)  uncertain systems  rough environments  uncertainty propagation  rapidly-exploring random tree  position uncertainty  motion uncertainty  natural environment  wheeled robots  path planning architecture  path-following  path replanning  probability  collision avoidance  Uncertainty  Robot kinematics  Path planning  Mobile robots  Planning  Global Positioning System 
Abstract: This paper proposes a new path planning algorithm to consider motion uncertainty for wheeled robots in rough environments. The proposed method uses particles to express the uncertainty propagation in complicated environments constructed with various types of terrain. Also, RRT (Rapidly-exploring Random Tree) is expanded based on the uncertainty of each node in order to prevent increasing the accumulated position uncertainty. As a result, the generated path reduces the times of path-following and re-planning based on inaccurate localization information. The effectiveness of the proposed method is evaluated in simulation using motion uncertainty models obtained by experiments. The results show that the proposed method decreases the position uncertainty while keeping the probability to avoid collisions and to reach the goal area compared with conventional approaches.


Title: Revisiting the Asymptotic Optimality of RRT*
Key Words: computational complexity  sampling methods  search problems  trees (mathematics)  mathematically-rigorous proof  asymptotic optimality  RRT*  asymptotically-optimal motion planning  optimality proof  sampling-based algorithms  connection radius  Robustness  Robots  Heuristic algorithms  Manganese  Planning  Aerodynamics  Safety 
Abstract: RRT* is one of the most widely used sampling-based algorithms for asymptotically-optimal motion planning. RRT* laid the foundations for optimality in motion planning as a whole, and inspired the development of numerous new algorithms in the field, many of which build upon RRT* itself. In this paper, we first identify a logical gap in the optimality proof of RRT*, which was developed by Karaman and Frazzoli (2011). Then, we present an alternative and mathematically-rigorous proof for asymptotic optimality. Our proof suggests that the connection radius used by RRT* should be increased from γ (log n/n)1/d to γ' (log n/n)1/(d+1) in order to account n n for the additional dimension of time that dictates the samples' ordering. Here γ, γ' are constants, and n, d are the number of samples and the dimension of the problem, respectively.


Title: Sample Complexity of Probabilistic Roadmaps via ε-nets
Key Words: computational complexity  deterministic algorithms  graph theory  probability  shortest δ-clear path  sample complexity  probabilistic roadmaps  ε-nets  optimality guarantees  deterministic sampling distribution  motion planning problem  parameter completeness  Planning  Complexity theory  Probabilistic logic  Two dimensional displays  Robots  Collision avoidance  Benchmark testing 
Abstract: We study fundamental theoretical aspects of probabilistic roadmaps (PRM) in the finite time (non-asymptotic) regime. In particular, we investigate how completeness and optimality guarantees of the approach are influenced by the underlying deterministic sampling distribution X and connection radius r > 0. We develop the notion of (δ, ε)-completeness of the parameters X, r, which indicates that for every motion-planning problem of clearance at least δ > 0, PRM using X, r returns a solution no longer than 1+ε times the shortest δ-clear path. Leveraging the concept of e-nets, we characterize in terms of lower and upper bounds the number of samples needed to guarantee (δ, ε)-completeness. This is in contrast with previous work which mostly considered the asymptotic regime in which the number of samples tends to infinity. In practice, we propose a sampling distribution inspired by e-nets that achieves nearly the same coverage as grids while using fewer samples.


Title: Safe Mission Planning under Dynamical Uncertainties
Key Words: collision avoidance  mobile robots  Monte Carlo methods  uncertain systems  uncertainty model  path planning  dynamical uncertainties  probabilistic model  safe robot mission planning  Monte Carlo method  collision free path  Uncertainty  Planning  Automata  Computational modeling  Hazards 
Abstract: This paper considers safe robot mission planning in uncertain dynamical environments. This problem arises in applications such as surveillance, emergency rescue, and autonomous driving. It is a challenging problem due to mod-eling and integrating dynamical uncertainties into a safe planning framework, and finding a solution in a computationally tractable way. In this work, we first develop a probabilistic model for dynamical uncertainties. Then, we provide a framework to generate a path that maximizes safety for complex missions by incorporating the uncertainty model. We also devise a Monte Carlo method to obtain a safe path efficiently. Finally, we evaluate the performance of our approach and compare it to potential alternatives in several case studies.


Title: An Iterative Quadratic Method for General-Sum Differential Games with Feedback Linearizable Dynamics
Key Words: control system synthesis  convergence of numerical methods  differential games  feedback  game theory  iterative methods  linear quadratic control  linearisation techniques  nonlinear control systems  path planning  feedback linearizable dynamics  nonlinear optimal control community  multiplayer general-sum differential games  ILQ methods  local equilibria  interactive motion planning problems  iterative procedures  initial conditions  hyperparameter choices  unsafe trajectories  dynamical systems  algorithmic reliability  feedback linearizable structure  iterative linear-quadratic method  Games  Heuristic algorithms  Planning  Feedback linearization  Iterative methods  Vehicle dynamics  Optimal control 
Abstract: Iterative linear-quadratic (ILQ) methods are widely used in the nonlinear optimal control community. Recent work has applied similar methodology in the setting of multi-player general-sum differential games. Here, ILQ methods are capable of finding local equilibria in interactive motion planning problems in real-time. As in most iterative procedures, however, this approach can be sensitive to initial conditions and hyperparameter choices, which can result in poor computational performance or even unsafe trajectories. In this paper, we focus our attention on a broad class of dynamical systems which are feedback linearizable, and exploit this structure to improve both algorithmic reliability and runtime. We showcase our new algorithm in three distinct traffic scenarios, and observe that in practice our method converges significantly more often and more quickly than was possible without exploiting the feedback linearizable structure.


Title: Binary DAD-Net: Binarized Driveable Area Detection Network for Autonomous Driving
Key Words: embedded systems  field programmable gate arrays  image segmentation  inference mechanisms  learning (artificial intelligence)  traffic engineering computing  binarized driveable area detection network  autonomous driving  ground-plane detection  obstacle detection  maneuver planning  over-parameterized networks  slim binary networks  binary weights  binary dilated convolutions  binary DAD-Net  semantic segmentation networks  FPGA  memory size 0.9 MByte  Convolutional codes  Task analysis  Semantics  Decoding  Training  Autonomous vehicles  Computational modeling 
Abstract: Driveable area detection is a key component for various applications in the field of autonomous driving (AD), such as ground-plane detection, obstacle detection and maneuver planning. Additionally, bulky and over-parameterized networks can be easily forgone and replaced with smaller networks for faster inference on embedded systems. The driveable area detection, posed as a two class segmentation task, can be efficiently modeled with slim binary networks. This paper proposes a novel binarized driveable area detection network (binary DAD-Net), which uses only binary weights and activations in the encoder, the bottleneck, and the decoder part. The latent space of the bottleneck is efficiently increased (×32→×16 downsampling) through binary dilated convolutions, learning more complex features. Along with automatically generated training data, the binary DAD-Net outperforms state-of-the-art semantic segmentation networks on public datasets. In comparison to a full-precision model, our approach has a ×14.3 reduced compute complexity on an FPGA and it requires only 0.9MB memory resources. Therefore, commodity SIMD-based AD-hardware is capable of accelerating the binary DAD-Net.


Title: Map As the Hidden Sensor: Fast Odometry-Based Global Localization
Key Words: distance measurement  mobile robots  path planning  sensors  tensors  odometry-based global localization  ambiguous observations  odometry drift  blind robots  robot state  belief tensor  map-corrected odometry localization  map traversability  robotics applications  hidden sensor  Robot sensing systems  Tensile stress  Trajectory  Robustness  Uncertainty  Real-time systems 
Abstract: Accurate and robust global localization is essential to robotics applications. We propose a novel global localization method that employs the map traversability as a hidden observation. The resulting map-corrected odometry localization is able to provide an accurate belief tensor of the robot state. Our method can be used for blind robots in dark or highly reflective areas. In contrast to odometry drift in the long-term, our method using only odometry and the map converges in long-term. Our method can also be integrated with other sensors to boost the localization performance. The algorithm does not have any initial state assumption and tracks all possible robot states at all times. Therefore, our method is global and is robust in the event of ambiguous observations. We parallel each step of our algorithm such that it can be performed in real-time (up to ~300 Hz) using GPU. We validate our algorithm in different publicly available floor-plans and show that it is able to converge to the ground truth fast while being robust to ambiguities.


Title: Adaptive Unknown Object Rearrangement Using Low-Cost Tabletop Robot
Key Words: learning (artificial intelligence)  mobile robots  object detection  robot vision  tabletop environment  object rearrangement  low-cost tabletop robot  object rearrangement planning  learning-based methods  single-step interaction  adaptive learning procedure  size 3.5 cm  Physics  Engines  Task analysis  Optimization  Robots  Adaptation models  Planning 
Abstract: Studies on object rearrangement planning typically consider known objects. Some learning-based methods can predict the movement of an unknown object after single-step interaction, but require intermediate targets, which are generated manually, to achieve the rearrangement task. In this work, we propose a framework for unknown object rearrangement. Our system first models an object through a small-amount of identification actions and adjust the model parameters during task execution. We implement the proposed framework based on a low-cost tabletop robot (under 180 USD) to demonstrate the advantages of using a physics engine to assist action prediction. Experimental results reveal that after running our adaptive learning procedure, the robot can successfully arrange a novel object using an average of five discrete pushes on our tabletop environment and satisfy a precise 3.5 cm translation and 5° rotation criterion.


Title: Design and Kinematic Modeling of a Novel Steerable Needle for Image-Guided Insertion
Key Words: biomedical ultrasonics  medical image processing  medical robotics  needles  path planning  pose estimation  surgery  tumours  image-guided insertion  novel steerable needle  kinematics model  passive needle tip articulation  needle path consistency  articulated tip  needle design  tissue mechanics  needle-tissue interaction  needle placement  percutaneous tumor ablation  biopsy tumor ablation  Needles  Kinematics  Fasteners  Path planning  Shape  Electron tubes  Laser beam cutting 
Abstract: Needle-based procedures, such as biopsy and percutaneous tumor ablation, highly depend on the accuracy of needle placement. The accuracy is significantly affected by the needle-tissue interaction no matter what needles (straight or steerable) are used. Due to the unknown tissue mechanics, it is challenging to achieve high accuracy in practice. This paper hence proposes a needle design with an articulated tip for increased steerability and improved needle path consistency. Due to the passive needle tip articulation, tissue mechanics always plays a dominant role such that the needle creates similar paths with approximately piece-wise constant curvature in different tissues. Kinematics model for the proposed needle is presented. The algorithms of path planning and needle tip pose estimation under external imaging modality are developed. Experimental verifications were conducted to demonstrate the needle's steerability as well as the target-reaching capability with obstacles avoidance.


Title: GA3C Reinforcement Learning for Surgical Steerable Catheter Path Planning
Key Words: biomedical MRI  catheters  collision avoidance  learning (artificial intelligence)  medical image processing  medical robotics  path planning  robot kinematics  trajectory smoothness  GA3C Reinforcement Learning  surgical steerable catheter path planning  path planning algorithms  steerable catheters  anatomical obstacles avoidance  insertion length  needle kinematics  smooth trajectories  path planning problem  reinforcement learning problem  trajectory planning model  optimal trajectories  obstacle clearance  kinematic constraints  MRI images processing  path planning model  curvilinear trajectories  RRT* algorithms  obstacle avoidance  Trajectory  Needles  Three-dimensional displays  Learning (artificial intelligence)  Catheters  Kinematics 
Abstract: Path planning algorithms for steerable catheters, must guarantee anatomical obstacles avoidance, reduce the insertion length and ensure the compliance with needle kinematics. The majority of the solutions in literature focuses on graph based or sampling based methods, both limited by the impossibility to directly obtain smooth trajectories. In this work we formulate the path planning problem as a reinforcement learning problem and show that the trajectory planning model, generated from the training, can provide the user with optimal trajectories in terms of obstacle clearance and kinematic constraints. We obtain 2D and 3D environments from MRI images processing and we implement a GA3C algorithm to create a path planning model, able to generalize on different patients anatomies. The curvilinear trajectories obtained from the model in 2D and 3D environments are compared to the ones obtained by A* and RRT* algorithms. Our method achieves state-of-the-art performances in terms of obstacle avoidance, trajectory smoothness and computational time proving this algorithm as valid planning method for complex environments.


Title: Distributed Attack-Robust Submodular Maximization for Multi-Robot Planning
Key Words: control system security  distributed algorithms  divide and conquer methods  multi-robot systems  optimisation  path planning  target tracking  distributed attack-robust submodular maximization  multirobot planning  swarm-robotics applications  multirobot motion  attack-robust algorithms  robust optimization  distributed robust maximization  DRM performance  multiple robots  denial-of-service attacks  DoS attacks  large-scale robotic applications  general-purpose distributed algorithm  divide-and-conquer approach  robot communication range  close-to-optimal performance  active target tracking  Planning  Target tracking  Robot kinematics  Partitioning algorithms  Robot sensing systems  Robustness 
Abstract: We aim to guard swarm-robotics applications against denial-of-service (DoS) attacks that result in withdrawals of robots. We focus on applications requiring the selection of actions for each robot, among a set of available ones, e.g., which trajectory to follow. Such applications are central in large-scale robotic applications, e.g., multi-robot motion planning for target tracking. But the current attack-robust algorithms are centralized, and scale quadratically with the problem size (e.g., number of robots). In this paper, we propose a general-purpose distributed algorithm towards robust optimization at scale, with local communications only. We name it distributed robust maximization (DRM). DRM proposes a divide-and-conquer approach that distributively partitions the problem among K cliques of robots. The cliques optimize in parallel, independently of each other. That way, DRM also offers computational speed-ups up to 1/K2 the running time of its centralized counterparts. K depends on the robots' communication range, which is given as input to DRM. DRM also achieves a close-to-optimal performance. We demonstrate DRM's performance in Gazebo and MATLAB simulations, in scenarios of active target tracking with multiple robots. We observe DRM achieves significant computational speed-ups (it is 3 to 4 orders faster) and, yet, nearly matches the tracking performance of its centralized counterparts.


Title: Distributed Optimization of Nonlinear, Non-Gaussian, Communication-Aware Information using Particle Methods
Key Words: entropy  mobile robots  multi-robot systems  optimisation  wireless sensor networks  mobile robotic sensor networks  neighbor robots  conditional mutual information  communication properties  specific measurement set  particle methods  information computation  distributed optimization  local utility design  communication-aware information gathering  sampling procedures  entropy reduction  Robot sensing systems  Optimization  Mutual information  Planning  Atmospheric measurements  Particle measurements 
Abstract: This paper presents a distributed optimization framework and its local utility design for communication-aware information gathering by mobile robotic sensor networks. The main idea of the optimization is that each robot decides based on its local utility that considers the decisions of other neighbor robots higher in a given hierarchy. The local utility is designed as conditional mutual information that captures sensing and communication properties. Sampling procedures using a specific measurement set and particle methods are applied to compute the designed utility, which allows nonlinear, non-Gaussian properties of targets, sensing, and communication. Simulation results describe the presented distributed optimization shows more improved estimates and entropy reduction than another approach that does not consider communication properties. Simulation results also verify the presented distributed optimization using the described approach for information computation has better results than using other approaches that simplify the communication-aware information.


Title: Enhancing Bilevel Optimization for UAV Time-Optimal Trajectory using a Duality Gap Approach
Key Words: autonomous aerial vehicles  bang-bang control  duality (mathematics)  mobile robots  Newton method  nonlinear programming  path planning  sensitivity analysis  time optimal control  sensitivity analysis  NLP solvers  parametric optimization problems  quasiNewton method  geometric path  time-optimal velocity profile  hierarchical optimization  bang-bang control structure  nonlinear programming solvers  dynamic robotic vehicles  time-optimal trajectories  duality gap approach  UAV time-optimal trajectory  gap-free bilevel optimization  interior-point method  Trajectory  Cost function  Switches  Acceleration  Robustness  Robots 
Abstract: Time-optimal trajectories for dynamic robotic vehicles are difficult to compute even for state-of-the-art nonlinear programming (NLP) solvers, due to nonlinearity and bang-bang control structure. This paper presents a bilevel optimization framework that addresses these problems by decomposing the spatial and temporal variables into a hierarchical optimization. Specifically, the original problem is divided into an inner layer, which computes a time-optimal velocity profile along a given geometric path, and an outer layer, which refines the geometric path by a Quasi-Newton method. The inner optimization is convex and efficiently solved by interior-point methods. The gradients of the outer layer can be analytically obtained using sensitivity analysis of parametric optimization problems. A novel contribution is to introduce a duality gap in the inner optimization rather than solving it to optimality; this lets the optimizer realize warm-starting of the interior-point method, avoids non-smoothness of the outer cost function caused by active inequality constraint switching. Like prior bilevel frameworks, this method is guaranteed to return a feasible solution at any time, but converges faster than gap-free bilevel optimization. Numerical experiments on a drone model with velocity and acceleration limits show that the proposed method performs faster and more robustly than gap-free bilevel optimization and general NLP solvers.


Title: Learning Control Policies from Optimal Trajectories
Key Words: feedback  Gaussian processes  industrial robots  learning systems  mobile robots  nonlinear control systems  optimal control  optimisation  pendulums  trajectory control  time-dependent optimal trajectories  optimal feedback control policies  real-world systems  frequent correction  model errors  optimal reference trajectories  high dimensional state space  learning control policies  optimally control robotic systems  high dimensional nonlinear system dynamic models  Gaussian processes  swing-up problem  underactuated pendulum  energy-minimal point-to-point movement  3-DOF industrial robot  Trajectory  Computational modeling  Task analysis  Numerical models  Robots  Feedback control  Optimal control 
Abstract: The ability to optimally control robotic systems offers significant advantages for their performance. While time-dependent optimal trajectories can numerically be computed for high dimensional nonlinear system dynamic models, constraints and objectives, finding optimal feedback control policies for such systems is hard. This is unfortunate, as without a policy, the control of real-world systems requires frequent correction or replanning to compensate for disturbances and model errors.In this paper, a feedback control policy is learned from a set of optimal reference trajectories using Gaussian processes. Information from existing trajectories and the current policy is used to find promising start points for the computation of further optimal trajectories. This aspect is important as it avoids exhaustive sampling of the complete state space, which is impractical due to the high dimensional state space, and to focus on the relevant region.The presented method has been applied in simulation to a swing-up problem of an underactuated pendulum and an energy-minimal point-to-point movement of a 3-DOF industrial robot.


Title: Grasp for Stacking via Deep Reinforcement Learning
Key Words: grippers  industrial manipulators  learning systems  neurocontrollers  optimal control  stacking  deep reinforcement learning  integrated robotic arm system  object grasping  model-free deep Q-learning method  grasping-stacking task  GSN  grasping for stacking network  industrial environments  GNet  optimal location  long-range planning  Grasping  Stacking  Task analysis  Feature extraction  Manipulators  Training 
Abstract: Integrated robotic arm system should contain both grasp and place actions. However, most grasping methods focus more on how to grasp objects, while ignoring the placement of the grasped objects, which limits their applications in various industrial environments. In this research, we propose a model-free deep Q-learning method to learn the grasping-stacking strategy end-to-end from scratch. Our method maps the images to the actions of the robotic arm through two deep networks: the grasping network (GNet) using the observation of the desk and the pile to infer the gripper's position and orientation for grasping, and the stacking network (SNet) using the observation of the platform to infer the optimal location when placing the grasped object. To make a long-range planning, the two observations are integrated in the grasping for stacking network (GSN). We evaluate the proposed GSN on a grasping-stacking task in both simulated and real-world scenarios.


Title: DeepTemporalSeg: Temporally Consistent Semantic Segmentation of 3D LiDAR Scans
Key Words: Bayes methods  control engineering computing  convolutional neural nets  filtering theory  image segmentation  image sequences  learning (artificial intelligence)  mobile robots  neural net architecture  object detection  optical radar  path planning  recursive estimation  robot vision  SLAM (robots)  DeepTemporalSeg  temporally consistent semantic segmentation  3d LiDAR scans  semantic characteristics  autonomous robot operation  deep convolutional neural network  DCNN  LiDAR scan  pedestrian  bicyclist  dense blocks  depth separable convolutions  current semantic state  recursive estimation  isolated erroneous predictions  neural network architectures  Bayes filter approach  KITTI tracking benchmark  Semantics  Laser radar  Image segmentation  Task analysis  Three-dimensional displays  Neural networks  Automobiles 
Abstract: Understanding the semantic characteristics of the environment is a key enabler for autonomous robot operation. In this paper, we propose a deep convolutional neural network (DCNN) for semantic segmentation of a LiDAR scan into the classes car, pedestrian and bicyclist. This architecture is based on dense blocks and efficiently utilizes depth separable convolutions to limit the number of parameters while still maintaining the state-of-the-art performance. To make the predictions from the DCNN temporally consistent, we propose a Bayes filter based method. This method uses the predictions from the neural network to recursively estimate the current semantic state of a point in a scan. This recursive estimation uses the knowledge gained from previous scans, thereby making the predictions temporally consistent and robust towards isolated erroneous predictions. We compare the performance of our proposed architecture with other state-of-the-art neural network architectures and report substantial improvement. For the proposed Bayes filter approach, we shows results on various sequences in the KITTI tracking benchmark.


Title: Discrete Bimanual Manipulation for Wrench Balancing
Key Words: manipulators  motion control  payload limitations  single arm  grasped object  wrenches  payload limits  dual-arm robot  robot arms changes  wrench imbalance  discrete bimanual manipulation  grasp points  balanced configuration  robot experiments  grasping force  wrench balancing  Manipulators  Force  Grippers  Planning  Grasping  Payloads 
Abstract: Dual-arm robots can overcome grasping force and payload limitations of a single arm by jointly grasping an object. However, if the distribution of mass of the grasped object is not even, each arm will experience different wrenches that can exceed its payload limits. In this work, we consider the problem of balancing the wrenches experienced by a dual-arm robot grasping a rigid tray. The distribution of wrenches among the robot arms changes due to objects being placed on the tray. We present an approach to reduce the wrench imbalance among arms through discrete bimanual manipulation. Our approach is based on sequential sliding motions of the grasp points on the surface of the object, to attain a more balanced configuration. We validate our modeling approach and system design through a set of robot experiments.


Title: Efficient Globally-Optimal Correspondence-Less Visual Odometry for Planar Ground Vehicles
Key Words: cameras  distance measurement  feature extraction  image registration  mobile robots  motion estimation  optimisation  path planning  robot vision  steering systems  tree searching  efficient globally-optimal correspondence-less visual odometry  planar ground vehicles  2 DoF Ackermann steering model  downward facing camera  simple image registration problem  2-parameter planar homography  ground-plane features  plane-based Ackermann motion estimation  correspondence-based hypothesise  test schemes  fronto-parallel motion  branch-and-bound optimisation technique  low-dimensional parametrisation  Cameras  Optimization  Transmission line matrix methods  Land vehicles  Motion estimation  Image registration  Real-time systems 
Abstract: The motion of planar ground vehicles is often non-holonomic, and as a result may be modelled by the 2 DoF Ackermann steering model. We analyse the feasibility of estimating such motion with a downward facing camera that exerts fronto-parallel motion with respect to the ground plane. This turns the motion estimation into a simple image registration problem in which we only have to identify a 2-parameter planar homography. However, one difficulty that arises from this setup is that ground-plane features are indistinctive and thus hard to match between successive views. We encountered this difficulty by introducing the first globally-optimal, correspondence-less solution to plane-based Ackermann motion estimation. The solution relies on the branch-and-bound optimisation technique. Through the low-dimensional parametrisation, a derivation of tight bounds, and an efficient implementation, we demonstrate how this technique is eventually amenable to accurate real-time motion estimation. We prove its property of global optimality and analyse the impact of assuming a locally constant centre of rotation. Our results on real data finally demonstrate a significant advantage over the more traditional, correspondence-based hypothesise-and-test schemes.


Title: egoTEB: Egocentric, Perception Space Navigation Using Timed-Elastic-Bands
Key Words: aerospace navigation  aerospace robotics  collision avoidance  graph theory  mobile robots  Monte Carlo methods  motion control  optimisation  trajectory control  grid-based representations  optimization graph  local planning map  egoTEB  timed-elastic-bands  TEB hierarchical planner  real-time navigation  collision avoidance  goal directed motion  multitrajectory optimization based synthesis method  topologically distinct trajectory candidates  factor graph approach  egocentric perception space navigation  egocentric perception space representations  Monte Carlo evaluations  autonomous mobile robot  Trajectory  Optimization  Navigation  Planning  Robots  Collision avoidance  Topology 
Abstract: The TEB hierarchical planner for real-time navigation through unknown environments is highly effective at balancing collision avoidance with goal directed motion. Designed over several years and publications, it implements a multi-trajectory optimization based synthesis method for identifying topologically distinct trajectory candidates through navigable space. Unfortunately, the underlying factor graph approach to the optimization problem induces a mismatch between grid-based representations and the optimization graph, which leads to several time and optimization inefficiencies. This paper explores the impact of using egocentric, perception space representations for the local planning map. Doing so alleviates many of the identified issues related to TEB and leads to a new method called egoTEB. Timing experiments and Monte Carlo evaluations in benchmark worlds quantify the benefits of egoTEB for navigation through uncertain environments.


Title: Self-Supervised Sim-to-Real Adaptation for Visual Robotic Manipulation
Key Words: learning (artificial intelligence)  manipulators  neural nets  robot vision  visual robotic manipulation  robotic visual data  reinforcement learning algorithms  robotic learning  state estimation  latent state representation  deep reinforcement learning  unlabeled real robot data  robot experience  time-contrastive techniques  learned state representation  vision-based reinforcement learning agent  standard visual domain adaptation techniques  self-supervised sim-to-real adaptation  sequence-based supervised objectives  contrastive forward dynamics loss  Robots  Task analysis  Adaptation models  Visualization  Stacking  Data models  Training 
Abstract: Collecting and automatically obtaining reward signals from real robotic visual data for the purposes of training reinforcement learning algorithms can be quite challenging and time-consuming. Methods for utilizing unlabeled data can have a huge potential to further accelerate robotic learning. We consider here the problem of performing manipulation tasks from pixels. In such tasks, choosing an appropriate state representation is crucial for planning and control. This is even more relevant with real images where noise, occlusions and resolution affect the accuracy and reliability of state estimation. In this work, we learn a latent state representation implicitly with deep reinforcement learning in simulation, and then adapt it to the real domain using unlabeled real robot data. We propose to do so by optimizing sequence-based self- supervised objectives. These use the temporal nature of robot experience, and can be common in both the simulated and real domains, without assuming any alignment of underlying states in simulated and unlabeled real images. We further propose a novel such objective, the Contrastive Forward Dynamics loss, which combines dynamics model learning with time-contrastive techniques. The learned state representation that results from our methods can be used to robustly solve a manipulation task in simulation and to successfully transfer the learned skill on a real system. We demonstrate the effectiveness of our approaches by training a vision-based reinforcement learning agent for cube stacking. Agents trained with our method, using only 5 hours of unlabeled real robot data for adaptation, shows a clear improvement over domain randomization, and standard visual domain adaptation techniques for sim-to-real transfer.


Title: DeepRacer: Autonomous Racing Platform for Experimentation with Sim2Real Reinforcement Learning
Key Words: intelligent robots  learning (artificial intelligence)  mobile robots  path planning  robot dynamics  robot vision  reality gap  joint perception  on-demand compute architecture  training optimal policies  robust evaluation  deep reinforcement learning  robotic control agent  raw camera images  robust path planning  DeepRacer  autonomous racing platform  Sim2Real reinforcement learning  end-to-end experimentation  RL  intelligent control systems  monocular camera  physical world  robust reinforcement learning  model-free learning  Training  Automobiles  Robots  Computational modeling  Cameras  Robustness  Navigation 
Abstract: DeepRacer is a platform for end-to-end experimentation with RL and can be used to systematically investigate the key challenges in developing intelligent control systems. Using the platform, we demonstrate how a 1/18th scale car can learn to drive autonomously using RL with a monocular camera. It is trained in simulation with no additional tuning in the physical world and demonstrates: 1) formulation and solution of a robust reinforcement learning algorithm, 2) narrowing the reality gap through joint perception and dynamics, 3) distributed on-demand compute architecture for training optimal policies, and 4) a robust evaluation method to identify when to stop training. It is the first successful large-scale deployment of deep reinforcement learning on a robotic control agent that uses only raw camera images as observations and a model-free learning method to perform robust path planning. We open source our code and video demo on GitHub2.


Title: Congestion-aware Evacuation Routing using Augmented Reality Devices
Key Words: augmented reality  emergency management  optimisation  congestion-aware evacuation  congestion-aware routing solution  indoor evacuation  real-time individual-customized evacuation routes  multiple destinations  population density map  obtained on-the-fly  congestion distribution  optimal solution  time-efficient evacuation route  AR devices  user-end augmented reality devices  Sociology  Statistics  Routing  Real-time systems  Path planning  Robots  Headphones 
Abstract: We present a congestion-aware routing solution for indoor evacuation, which produces real-time individual-customized evacuation routes among multiple destinations while keeping tracks of all evacuees' locations. A population density map, obtained on-the-fly by aggregating locations of evacuees from user-end Augmented Reality (AR) devices, is used to model the congestion distribution inside a building. To efficiently search the evacuation route among all destinations, a variant of A* algorithm is devised to obtain the optimal solution in a single pass. In a series of simulated studies, we show that the proposed algorithm is more computationally optimized compared to classic path planning algorithms; it generates a more time-efficient evacuation route for each individual that minimizes the overall congestion. A complete system using AR devices is implemented for a pilot study in real-world environments, demonstrating the efficacy of the proposed approach.


Title: Human-robot interaction for robotic manipulator programming in Mixed Reality
Key Words: augmented reality  human-robot interaction  manipulators  robot programming  human-robot interaction  robotic manipulator programming  mixed reality  interactive programming  HoloLens glasses  robotic operation system  robotic manipulators  robot location  point cloud analysis  virtual markers  menus  pick-and-place operation  contact operations execution  UR10e robot  KUKA iiwa robot  Virtual reality  Trajectory  Collision avoidance  Manipulators  Programming  Service robots 
Abstract: The paper presents an approach for interactive programming of the robotic manipulator using mixed reality. The developed system is based on the HoloLens glasses connected through Robotic Operation System to Unity engine and robotic manipulators. The system gives a possibility to recognize the real robot location by the point cloud analysis, to use virtual markers and menus for the task creation, to generate a trajectory for execution in the simulator or on the real manipulator. It also provides the possibility of scaling virtual and real worlds for more accurate planning. The proposed framework has been tested on pick-and-place and contact operations execution by UR10e and KUKA iiwa robots.


Title: Gaussian-Dirichlet Random Fields for Inference over High Dimensional Categorical Observations
Key Words: Bayes methods  Gaussian processes  image classification  mobile robots  path planning  robot vision  vectors  low dimensional vector observations  Gaussian-Dirichlet random fields  high dimensional categorical observations  spatio-temporal distribution  imaging sensor  image classifier  Dirichlet distributions  Gaussian processes  high dimensional categorical measurements  taxonomic observations  informative path planning techniques  Gaussian processes  Biological system modeling  Spatiotemporal phenomena  Graphical models  Data models  Robots  Oceans 
Abstract: We propose a generative model for the spatio-temporal distribution of high dimensional categorical observations. These are commonly produced by robots equipped with an imaging sensor such as a camera, paired with an image classifier, potentially producing observations over thousands of categories. The proposed approach combines the use of Dirichlet distributions to model sparse co-occurrence relations between the observed categories using a latent variable, and Gaussian processes to model the latent variable's spatio-temporal distribution. Experiments in this paper show that the resulting model is able to efficiently and accurately approximate the temporal distribution of high dimensional categorical measurements such as taxonomic observations of microscopic organisms in the ocean, even in unobserved (held out) locations, far from other samples. This work's primary motivation is to enable deployment of informative path planning techniques over high dimensional categorical fields, which until now have been limited to scalar or low dimensional vector observations.


Title: Day and Night Collaborative Dynamic Mapping in Unstructured Environment Based on Multimodal Sensors
Key Words: groupware  image fusion  mobile robots  multi-robot systems  path planning  sensor fusion  SLAM (robots)  dynamic collaborative mapping  multimodal environmental perception  heterogeneous sensor fusion model  local 3D maps  night rainforest  3D map fusion missions  multimodal sensors  long-term operation  collaborative robots  dynamic environment  dynamic objects  Collaboration  Three-dimensional displays  Simultaneous localization and mapping  Cameras  Robot vision systems 
Abstract: Enabling long-term operation during day and night for collaborative robots requires a comprehensive understanding of the unstructured environment. Besides, in the dynamic environment, robots must be able to recognize dynamic objects and collaboratively build a global map. This paper proposes a novel approach for dynamic collaborative mapping based on multimodal environmental perception. For each mission, robots first apply heterogeneous sensor fusion model to detect humans and separate them to acquire static observations. Then, the collaborative mapping is performed to estimate the relative position between robots and local 3D maps are integrated into a globally consistent 3D map. The experiment is conducted in the day and night rainforest with moving people. The results show the accuracy, robustness, and versatility in 3D map fusion missions.


Title: A GNC Architecture for Planetary Rovers with Autonomous Navigation
Key Words: aerospace navigation  aerospace robotics  distance measurement  Mars  mobile robots  optimal control  path planning  planetary rovers  robot vision  SLAM (robots)  trajectory control  GNC architecture  planetary rovers  autonomous navigation  Mars exploration missions  sample fetching rover  autonomous capabilities  two-level architecture  terrain  local path replanning  trajectory control  global localization  planetary exploration  planetary analog field test campaigns  guidance navigation and control architecture  hazard detection  visual odometry  adaptive SLAM algorithm  optimal path planning  Hazards  Navigation  Space vehicles  Autonomous robots  Computer architecture  Cameras  Trajectory 
Abstract: This paper proposes a Guidance, Navigation, and Control (GNC) architecture for planetary rovers targeting the conditions of upcoming Mars exploration missions such as Mars 2020 and the Sample Fetching Rover (SFR). The navigation requirements of these missions demand a control architecture featuring autonomous capabilities to achieve a fast and long traverse. The proposed solution presents a two-level architecture where the efficient navigation (lower) level is always active and the full navigation (upper) level is enabled according to the difficulty of the terrain. The first level is an efficient implementation of the basic functionalities for autonomous navigation based on hazard detection, local path replanning, and trajectory control with visual odometry. The second level implements an adaptive SLAM algorithm that improves the relative localization, evaluates the traversability of the terrain ahead for a more optimal path planning, and performs global (absolute) localization that corrects the pose drift during longer traverses. The architecture provides a solution for long-range, low supervision, and fast planetary exploration. Both navigation levels have been validated on planetary analog field test campaigns.


Title: Loam livox: A fast, robust, high-precision LiDAR odometry and mapping package for LiDARs of small FoV
Key Words: distance measurement  mobile robots  optical radar  path planning  robot vision  SLAM (robots)  FoV  autonomous vehicles  autonomous navigation  path planning  LOAM algorithm  LiDAR odometry and mapping  robot pose localization  Laser radar  Feature extraction  Three-dimensional displays  Measurement by laser beam  Laser noise  Real-time systems  Spinning 
Abstract: LiDAR odometry and mapping (LOAM) has been playing an important role in autonomous vehicles, due to its ability to simultaneously localize the robot's pose and build high-precision, high-resolution maps of the surrounding environment. This enables autonomous navigation and safe path planning of autonomous vehicles. In this paper, we present a robust, real-time LOAM algorithm for LiDARs with small FoV and irregular samplings. By taking effort on both frontend and back-end, we address several fundamental challenges arising from such LiDARs, and achieve better performance in both precision and efficiency compared to existing baselines. To share our findings and to make contributions to the community, we open source our codes on Github1.


Title: Active SLAM using 3D Submap Saliency for Underwater Volumetric Exploration
Key Words: graph theory  mobile robots  navigation  path planning  robot vision  SLAM (robots)  underwater volumetric exploration  active SLAM framework  3D underwater environments  multibeam sonar  integrated SLAM  volumetric free-space information  informative loop closures  navigation policy  3D visual dictionary  submap saliency  sensor information  pose-graph SLAM formulation  global occupancy grid map  uncertainty-agnostic framework  Simultaneous localization and mapping  Three-dimensional displays  Uncertainty  Conferences  Automation  Sonar  Planning 
Abstract: In this paper, we present an active SLAM framework for volumetric exploration of 3D underwater environments with multibeam sonar. Recent work in integrated SLAM and planning performs localization while maintaining volumetric free-space information. However, an absence of informative loop closures can lead to imperfect maps, and therefore unsafe behavior. To solve this, we propose a navigation policy that reduces vehicle pose uncertainty by balancing between volumetric exploration and revisitation. To identify locations to revisit, we build a 3D visual dictionary from real-world sonar data and compute a metric of submap saliency. Revisit actions are chosen based on propagated pose uncertainty and sensor information gain. Loop closures are integrated as constraints in our pose-graph SLAM formulation and these deform the global occupancy grid map. We evaluate our performance in simulation and real-world experiments, and highlight the advantages over an uncertainty-agnostic framework.


Title: Are We Ready for Service Robots? The OpenLORIS-Scene Datasets for Lifelong SLAM
Key Words: mobile robots  path planning  pose estimation  robot vision  service robots  SLAM (robots)  simultaneous localization and mapping  data sequences  robotic autonomy  service robots  real-world indoor scenes  OpenLORIS-Scene datasets  SLAM problems  pose estimation  Simultaneous localization and mapping  Robot kinematics  Cameras  Synchronization  Trajectory 
Abstract: Service robots should be able to operate autonomously in dynamic and daily changing environments over an extended period of time. While Simultaneous Localization And Mapping (SLAM) is one of the most fundamental problems for robotic autonomy, most existing SLAM works are evaluated with data sequences that are recorded in a short period of time. In real-world deployment, there can be out-of-sight scene changes caused by both natural factors and human activities. For example, in home scenarios, most objects may be movable, replaceable or deformable, and the visual features of the same place may be significantly different in some successive days. Such out-of-sight dynamics pose great challenges to the robustness of pose estimation, and hence a robot's long-term deployment and operation. To differentiate the forementioned problem from the conventional works which are usually evaluated in a static setting in a single run, the term lifelong SLAM is used here to address SLAM problems in an ever-changing environment over a long period of time. To accelerate lifelong SLAM research, we release the OpenLORIS-Scene datasets. The data are collected in real-world indoor scenes, for multiple times in each place to include scene changes in real life. We also design benchmarking metrics for lifelong SLAM, with which the robustness and accuracy of pose estimation are evaluated separately. The datasets and benchmark are available online at lifelong-robotic-vision.github.io/dataset/scene.


Title: Adaptively Informed Trees (AIT*): Fast Asymptotically Optimal Path Planning through Adaptive Heuristics
Key Words: path planning  sampling methods  search problems  trees (mathematics)  heuristic estimates  AIT*  asymmetric bidirectional search  optimal path planning  informed sampling-based planning algorithm  adaptively informed trees  Search problems  Image edge detection  Approximation algorithms  Planning  Heuristic algorithms  Databases  Path planning 
Abstract: Informed sampling-based planning algorithms exploit problem knowledge for better search performance. This knowledge is often expressed as heuristic estimates of solution cost and used to order the search. The practical improvement of this informed search depends on the accuracy of the heuristic. Selecting an appropriate heuristic is difficult. Heuristics applicable to an entire problem domain are often simple to define and inexpensive to evaluate but may not be beneficial for a specific problem instance. Heuristics specific to a problem instance are often difficult to define or expensive to evaluate but can make the search itself trivial. This paper presents Adaptively Informed Trees (AIT*), an almost-surely asymptotically optimal sampling-based planner based on BIT*. AIT* adapts its search to each problem instance by using an asymmetric bidirectional search to simultaneously estimate and exploit a problem-specific heuristic. This allows it to quickly find initial solutions and converge towards the optimum. AIT* solves the tested problems as fast as RRT-Connect while also converging towards the optimum.


Title: Informing Multi-Modal Planning with Synergistic Discrete Leads
Key Words: continuous systems  discrete systems  manipulators  multimodal planning  robotic manipulation problems  continuous infinity  object grasping  manipulation plan  single-mode motions  valid transitions  manipulation planners  multimodal structure  mode-specific planners  general layered planning approach  pick-and-place manipulation domain  synergistic discrete leads  specific mode transitions  useful mode transitions  bias search  Planning  Manifolds  Task analysis  Lead  Probabilistic logic  Robot motion 
Abstract: Robotic manipulation problems are inherently continuous, but typically have underlying discrete structure, e.g., whether or not an object is grasped. This means many problems are multi-modal and in particular have a continuous infinity of modes. For example, in a pick-and-place manipulation domain, every grasp and placement of an object is a mode. Usually manipulation problems require the robot to transition into different modes, e.g., going from a mode with an object placed to another mode with the object grasped. To successfully find a manipulation plan, a planner must find a sequence of valid single-mode motions as well as valid transitions between these modes. Many manipulation planners have been proposed to solve tasks with multi-modal structure. However, these methods require mode-specific planners and fail to scale to very cluttered environments or to tasks that require long sequences of transitions. This paper presents a general layered planning approach to multi-modal planning that uses a discrete "lead" to bias search towards useful mode transitions. The difficulty of achieving specific mode transitions is captured online and used to bias search towards more promising sequences of modes. We demonstrate our planner on complex scenes and show that significant performance improvements are tied to both our discrete "lead" and our continuous representation.


Title: Hierarchical Coverage Path Planning in Complex 3D Environments
Key Words: autonomous aerial vehicles  hierarchical systems  image resolution  image sampling  mobile robots  path planning  robot vision  complex three-dimensional environment  nooks  crannies  coverage planning  multiresolution hierarchical framework  three-dimensional scenes  hierarchical coverage path planning  lightweight UAV  low-level sampling  complex 3D environments  Planning  Robot sensing systems  Cameras  Octrees  Three-dimensional displays  Surface treatment 
Abstract: State-of-the-art coverage planning methods perform well in simple environments but take an ineffectively long time to converge to an optimal solution in complex three-dimensional (3D) environments. As more structures are present in the same volume of workspace, these methods slow down as they spend more time searching for all of the nooks and crannies concealed in three-dimensional spaces. This work presents a method for coverage planning that employs a multi-resolution hierarchical framework to solve the problem at two different levels, producing much higher efficiency than the state-of-the-art. First, a high-level algorithm separates the environment into multiple subspaces at different resolutions and computes an order of the subspaces for traversal. Second, a low-level sampling-based algorithm solves for paths within the subspaces for detailed coverage. In experiments, we evaluate our method using real-world datasets from complex three-dimensional scenes. Our method finds paths that are constantly shorter and converges at least ten times faster than the state-of-the-art. Further, we show results of a physical experiment where a lightweight UAV follows the paths to realize the coverage.


Title: Perception-aware time optimal path parameterization for quadrotors
Key Words: autonomous aerial vehicles  helicopters  mobile robots  optimisation  path planning  perception-aware time optimal path parameterization  quadrotors  perception-aware time optimal path parametrization  quadrotor systems  on-board navigation  estimation algorithms  planning  efficient time optimal path parametrization algorithm  quadrotor platform  vision-driven vehicles  Trajectory  Cameras  Planning  Task analysis  Aerodynamics  Heuristic algorithms  Navigation 
Abstract: The increasing popularity of quadrotors has given rise to a class of predominantly vision-driven vehicles. This paper addresses the problem of perception-aware time optimal path parametrization for quadrotors. Although many different choices of perceptual modalities are available, the low weight and power budgets of quadrotor systems makes a camera ideal for on-board navigation and estimation algorithms. However, this does come with a set of challenges. The limited field of view of the camera can restrict the visibility of salient regions in the environment, which dictates the necessity to consider perception and planning jointly. The main contribution of this paper is an efficient time optimal path parametrization algorithm for quadrotors with limited field of view constraints. We show in a simulation study that a state-of-the-art controller can track planned trajectories, and we validate the proposed algorithm on a quadrotor platform in experiments.


Title: Generating Visibility-Aware Trajectories for Cooperative and Proactive Motion Planning
Key Words: mobile robots  motion estimation  object detection  path planning  road traffic  road vehicles  vehicles  autonomous vehicle  ego vehicle  visibility-aware planning  visibility-aware trajectories  proactive motion planning  cooperative motion planning  partially-occluded intersection  emergent behavior  Trajectory  Uncertainty  Planning  Safety  Autonomous vehicles  Splines (mathematics) 
Abstract: The safety of an autonomous vehicle not only depends on its own perception of the world around it, but also on the perception and recognition from other vehicles. If an ego vehicle considers the uncertainty other vehicles have about itself, then by reducing the estimated uncertainty it can increase its safety. In this paper, we focus on how an ego vehicle plans its trajectories through the blind spots of other vehicles. We create visibility-aware planning, where the ego vehicle chooses its trajectories such that it reduces the perceived uncertainty other vehicles may have about the state of the ego vehicle. We present simulations of traffic and highway environments, where an ego vehicle must pass another vehicle, make a lane change, or traverse a partially-occluded intersection. Emergent behavior shows that when using visibility-aware planning, the ego vehicle spends less time in a blind spot, and may slow down before entering the blind spot so as to increase the likelihood other vehicles perceive the ego vehicle.


Title: An obstacle-interaction planning method for navigation of actuated vine robots
Key Words: bending  collision avoidance  mobile robots  motion control  soft robotics  reliable robot-environment interaction models  obstacle-interaction model  robot tip  obstacle-interaction planning method  actuated vine robot navigation  wrinkling deformation  bending deformation  Soft robotics  Strain  Deformable models  Planning  Kinematics  Pneumatic systems 
Abstract: The field of soft robotics is grounded on the idea that, due to their inherent compliance, soft robots can safely interact with the environment. Thus, the development of effective planning and control pipelines for soft robots should incorporate reliable robot-environment interaction models. This strategy enables soft robots to effectively exploit contacts to autonomously navigate and accomplish tasks in the environment. However, for a class of soft robots, namely vine-inspired, tip-extending or "vine" robots, such interaction models and the resulting planning and control strategies do not exist. In this paper, we analyze the behavior of vine robots interacting with their environment and propose an obstacle-interaction model that characterizes the bending and wrinkling deformation induced by the environment. Starting from this, we devise a novel obstacle-interaction planning method for these robots. We show how obstacle interactions can be effectively leveraged to enlarge the set of reachable workspace for the robot tip, and verify our findings with both simulated and real experiments. Our work improves the capabilities of this new class of soft robot, helping to advance the field of soft robotics.


Title: Line Coverage with Multiple Robots
Key Words: computational complexity  graph theory  integer programming  linear programming  mobile robots  multi-robot systems  path planning  robot tour generation  multiple robots  line coverage problem  mixed integer linear program  NP-hard  merge-embed-merge  MEM algorithm  graph simplification  graph partitioning  Roads  Task analysis  Robot sensing systems  Routing  Heuristic algorithms  Partitioning algorithms 
Abstract: The line coverage problem is the coverage of linear environment features (e.g., road networks, power lines), modeled as 1D segments, by one or more robots while respecting resource constraints (e.g., battery capacity, flight time) for each of the robots. The robots incur direction dependent costs and resource demands as they traverse the edges. We treat the line coverage problem as an optimization problem, with the total cost of the tours as the objective, by formulating it as a mixed integer linear program (MILP). The line coverage problem is NP-hard and hence we develop a heuristic algorithm, Merge-Embed-Merge (MEM). We compare it against the optimal MILP approach and a baseline heuristic algorithm, Extended Path Scanning. We show the MEM algorithm is fast and suitable for real-time applications. To tackle large-scale problems, our approach performs graph simplification and graph partitioning, followed by robot tour generation for each of the partitioned subgraphs. We demonstrate our approach on a large graph with 4,658 edges and 4,504 vertices that represents an urban region of about 16 sq. km. We compare the performance of the algorithms on several small road networks and experimentally demonstrate the approach using UAVs on the UNC Charlotte campus road network.


Title: Efficient Uncertainty-aware Decision-making for Automated Driving Using Guided Branching
Key Words: decision making  decision theory  Markov processes  multi-agent systems  road traffic  trees (mathematics)  dense traffic scenarios  automated vehicles  stochastic behaviors  traffic participants  perception uncertainties  partially observable Markov decision process  efficient uncertainty-aware decision-making  longitudinal behaviors  complex driving environments  automated driving  guided branching  domain-specific closed-loop policy tree structure  DCP-Tree  conditional focused branching mechanism  CFB  domain-specific expert knowledge  Planning  Decision making  Uncertainty  Semantics  Vegetation  Aerospace electronics  Safety 
Abstract: Decision-making in dense traffic scenarios is challenging for automated vehicles (AVs) due to potentially stochastic behaviors of other traffic participants and perception uncertainties (e.g., tracking noise and prediction errors, etc.). Although the partially observable Markov decision process (POMDP) provides a systematic way to incorporate these uncertainties, it quickly becomes computationally intractable when scaled to the real-world large-size problem. In this paper, we present an efficient uncertainty-aware decision-making (EUDM) framework, which generates long-term lateral and longitudinal behaviors in complex driving environments in real-time. The computation complexity is controlled to an appropriate level by two novel techniques, namely, the domain-specific closed-loop policy tree (DCP-Tree) structure and conditional focused branching (CFB) mechanism. The key idea is utilizing domain-specific expert knowledge to guide the branching in both action and intention space. The proposed framework is validated using both onboard sensing data captured by a real vehicle and an interactive multi-agent simulation platform. We also release the code of our framework to accommodate benchmarking.


Title: Variational Inference with Mixture Model Approximation for Applications in Robotics
Key Words: approximation theory  Bayes methods  control engineering computing  inference mechanisms  mixture models  robots  statistical distributions  variational inference  mixture model approximation  robot configurations  Bayesian computation  Robots  Mixture models  Kinematics  Bayes methods  Optimization  Task analysis  Planning 
Abstract: We propose to formulate the problem of representing a distribution of robot configurations (e.g. joint angles) as that of approximating a product of experts. Our approach uses variational inference, a popular method in Bayesian computation, which has several practical advantages over sampling-based techniques. To be able to represent complex and multimodal distributions of configurations, mixture models are used as approximate distribution. We show that the problem of approximating a distribution of robot configurations while satisfying multiple objectives arises in a wide range of problems in robotics, for which the properties of the proposed approach have relevant consequences. Several applications are discussed, including learning objectives from demonstration, planning, and warm-starting inverse kinematics problems. Simulated experiments are presented with a 7-DoF Panda arm and a 28-DoF Talos humanoid.


Title: An NMPC Approach using Convex Inner Approximations for Online Motion Planning with Guaranteed Collision Avoidance
Key Words: collision avoidance  continuous time systems  convex programming  mobile robots  nonlinear control systems  predictive control  trajectory control  trajectory optimization  NMPC approach  mobile robots  continuous time collision avoidance  kinodynamic feasibility  nonlinear model predictive control  convex inner approximation  online motion planning  continuous time collision free trajectories  Collision avoidance  Robots  Trajectory optimization  Planning  Dynamics 
Abstract: Even though mobile robots have been around for decades, trajectory optimization and continuous time collision avoidance remain subject of active research. Existing methods trade off between path quality, computational complexity, and kinodynamic feasibility. This work approaches the problem using a nonlinear model predictive control (NMPC) framework, that is based on a novel convex inner approximation of the collision avoidance constraint. The proposed Convex Inner ApprOximation (CIAO) method finds kinodynamically feasible and continuous time collision free trajectories, in few iterations, typically one. For a feasible initialization, the approach is guaranteed to find a feasible solution, i.e. it preserves feasibility. Our experimental evaluation shows that CIAO outperforms state of the art baselines in terms of planning efficiency and path quality. Experiments show that it also efficiently scales to high-dimensional systems. Furthermore real-world experiments demonstrate its capability of unifying trajectory optimization and tracking for safe motion planning in dynamic environments.


Title: Online Trajectory Planning Through Combined Trajectory Optimization and Function Approximation: Application to the Exoskeleton Atalante
Key Words: control engineering computing  function approximation  learning (artificial intelligence)  mobile robots  optimisation  path planning  robust control  trajectory control  wearable robots  trajectory optimization  function approximation  autonomous robots  online trajectory planning  guided trajectory learning  self-balanced exoskeleton  Atalante  robust control strategies  Trajectory optimization  Function approximation  Task analysis  Legged locomotion 
Abstract: Autonomous robots require online trajectory planning capability to operate in the real world. Efficient offline trajectory planning methods already exist, but are computationally demanding, preventing their use online. In this paper, we present a novel algorithm called Guided Trajectory Learning that learns a function approximation of solutions computed through trajectory optimization while ensuring accurate and reliable predictions. This function approximation is then used online to generate trajectories. This algorithm is designed to be easy to implement, and practical since it does not require massive computing power. It is readily applicable to any robotics systems and effortless to set up on real hardware since robust control strategies are usually already available. We demonstrate the computational performance of our algorithm on flat-foot walking with the self-balanced exoskeleton Atalante.


Title: Act, Perceive, and Plan in Belief Space for Robot Localization
Key Words: mobile robots  object recognition  path planning  belief space  robot localization  interleaved acting  planning technique  low-level geometric features  task planner  perception tasks  state spaces  Uncertainty  Planning  Task analysis  Object detection  Robot sensing systems  Probabilistic logic 
Abstract: In this paper, we outline an interleaved acting and planning technique to rapidly reduce the uncertainty of the estimated robot's pose by perceiving relevant information from the environment, as recognizing an object or asking someone for a direction. Generally, existing localization approaches rely on low-level geometric features such as points, lines, and planes. While these approaches provide the desired accuracy, they may require time to converge, especially with incorrect initial guesses. In our approach, a task planner computes a sequence of action and perception tasks to actively obtain relevant information from the robot's perception system. We validate our approach in large state spaces, to show how the approach scales, and in real environments, to show the applicability of our method on real robots. We prove that our approach is sound, probabilistically complete, and tractable in practical cases.


Title: Fast and resilient manipulation planning for target retrieval in clutter
Key Words: collision avoidance  image retrieval  manipulators  mobile robots  object detection  resilient manipulation planning  clutter  task and motion planning  robotic manipulator  target object retrieval  collision-free path  object rearrangement  TAMP framework  static environments  pick-and-place actions  baseline methods  Planning  Task analysis  Clutter  Collision avoidance  Manipulators  Search problems 
Abstract: This paper presents a task and motion planning (TAMP) framework for a robotic manipulator in order to retrieve a target object from clutter. We consider a configuration of objects in a confined space with a high density so no collision-free path to the target exists. The robot must relocate some objects to retrieve the target without collisions. For fast completion of object rearrangement, the robot aims to optimize the number of pick-and-place actions which often determines the efficiency of a TAMP framework.We propose a task planner incorporating motion planning to generate executable plans which aims to minimize the number of pick-and-place actions. In addition to fully known and static environments, our method can deal with uncertain and dynamic situations incurred by occluded views. Our method is shown to reduce the number of pick-and-place actions compared to baseline methods (e.g., at least 28.0% of reduction in a known static environment with 20 objects).


Title: Trajectory Optimization for a Six-DOF Cable-Suspended Parallel Robot with Dynamic Motions Beyond the Static Workspace
Key Words: cables (mechanical)  manipulator dynamics  optimisation  path planning  position control  trajectory control  cable-suspended parallel robot  static workspace  trajectory optimization formulation  dynamic trajectories  six-degree-of-freedom  low-dimensional dynamic models  narrow feasible state space  dynamic similarity  point-mass CSPR  feasible force polyhedra  transition trajectories  highly dynamic motions  periodic trajectories  Dynamics  Planning  Robots  Trajectory optimization  Chebyshev approximation  Dynamic trajectory planning  optimization and optimal control  cable-suspended parallel robots 
Abstract: This paper presents a trajectory optimization formulation for planning dynamic trajectories of a six-degree-of-freedom (six-DOF) cable-suspended parallel robot (CSPR) that extend beyond the static workspace. The optimization is guided by low-dimensional dynamic models to overcome the local minima and accelerate the exploration of the narrow feasible state space. The dynamic similarity between the six-DOF CSPR and the three-DOF point-mass CSPR is discussed with the analyses of their feasible force polyhedra. Finally, the transition trajectories of a three-DOF CSPR are used as the initial guess of the translational part of the six-DOF motion. With the proposed approach, highly dynamic motions for a six-DOF CSPR are efficiently generated with multiple oscillations. The feasibility is demonstrated by point-to-point and periodic trajectories in the physics simulation.


Title: An Efficient Planning and Control Framework for Pruning Fruit Trees
Key Words: agricultural products  image colour analysis  industrial manipulators  intelligent robots  robot vision  motion planning  sequence cut points  robotic pruning  control framework  pruning fruit trees  dormant pruning  fresh market tree fruit production  industrial manipulator  eye-in-hand RGB-D camera configuration  pneumatic cutter  Planning  Cameras  Three-dimensional displays  Manipulators  Vegetation  Pipelines 
Abstract: Dormant pruning is a major cost component of fresh market tree fruit production, nearly equal in scale to harvesting the fruit. However, relatively little focus has been given to the problem of pruning trees autonomously. In this paper, we introduce a robotic system consisting of an industrial manipulator, an eye-in-hand RGB-D camera configuration, and a custom pneumatic cutter. The system is capable of planning and executing a sequence of cuts while making minimal assumptions about the environment. We leverage a novel planning framework designed for high-throughput operation which builds upon previous work to reduce motion planning time and sequence cut points intelligently. In end-to-end experiments with a set of ten different branch configurations, the system achieved a high success rate in plan execution and a 1.5x speedup in throughput versus a baseline planner, representing a significant step towards the goal of practical implementation of robotic pruning.


Title: Context Dependant Iterative Parameter Optimisation for Robust Robot Navigation
Key Words: genetic algorithms  iterative methods  mobile robots  motion control  navigation  path planning  simulated environments  genetic algorithm  resulting parameter sets  substantial performance improvements  agricultural robots  context dependant iterative parameter optimisation  robust robot navigation  autonomous mobile robotics  motion control  path planning  robust performance  robot model  parameter tuning  underlying algorithm  substantial combinatorial challenge  extensive manual tuning  navigation actions  spatial context  navigation task  respective navigation algorithms  iterative optimisation  performance metrics  Navigation  Robots  Optimization  Tuning  Robustness  Genetic algorithms  Measurement 
Abstract: Progress in autonomous mobile robotics has seen significant advances in the development of many algorithms for motion control and path planning. However, robust performance from these algorithms can often only be expected if the parameters controlling them are tuned specifically for the respective robot model, and optimised for specific scenarios in the environment the robot is working in. Such parameter tuning can, depending on the underlying algorithm, amount to a substantial combinatorial challenge, often rendering extensive manual tuning of these parameters intractable. In this paper, we present a framework that permits the use of different navigation actions and/or parameters depending on the spatial context of the navigation task. We consider the respective navigation algorithms themselves mostly as a "black box", and find suitable parameters by means of an iterative optimisation, improving for performance metrics in simulated environments. We present a genetic algorithm incorporated into the framework, and empirically show that the resulting parameter sets lead to substantial performance improvements in both simulated and real-world environments in the domain of agricultural robots.


Title: Singularity-Free Inverse Dynamics for Underactuated Systems with a Rotating Mass
Key Words: manipulator dynamics  matrix algebra  motion control  nonlinear control systems  path planning  position control  singularity-free inverse dynamics  underactuated system  rotating mass  motion control  configuration singularities  configuration space  inertial coupling  small-amplitude sine wave  nonlinear dynamics  rolling system  singularity regions  coupling singularities  rolling carrier  Mathematical model  Couplings  Integrated circuits  Trajectory  Kinematics  Robots  Tensile stress 
Abstract: Motion control of underactuated systems through the inverse dynamics contains configuration singularities. These limitations in configuration space mainly stem from the inertial coupling that passive joints/bodies create. In this study, we present a model that is free from singularity while the trajectory of the rotating mass has a small-amplitude sine wave around its circle. First, we derive the modified non-linear dynamics for a rolling system. Also, the singularity regions for this underactuated system is demonstrated. Then, the wave parameters are designed under certain conditions to remove the coupling singularities. We obtain these conditions from the positive definiteness of the inertia matrix in the inverse dynamics. Finally, the simulation results are confirmed by using a prescribed Beta function on the specified states of the rolling carrier. Because our algebraic method is integrated into the non-linear dynamics, the proposed solution has a great potential to be extended to the Lagrangian mechanics with multiple degrees-of-freedom.


Title: SUMMIT: A Simulator for Urban Driving in Massive Mixed Traffic
Key Words: control engineering computing  multi-agent systems  road traffic  road vehicles  telecommunication traffic  traffic engineering computing  SUMMIT  urban driving  massive mixed traffic  unregulated urban crowd  high-speed traffic participants  high-fidelity simulator  crowd-driving algorithms  open-source OpenStreetMap map database  multiagent motion prediction model  unregulated urban traffic  heterogeneous agents  autonomous driving simulation  realistic traffic behaviors  crowd-driving settings  Roads  Robot sensing systems  Context modeling  Planning  Automobiles  Geometry  Kinematics 
Abstract: Autonomous driving in an unregulated urban crowd is an outstanding challenge, especially, in the presence of many aggressive, high-speed traffic participants. This paper presents SUMMIT, a high-fidelity simulator that facilitates the development and testing of crowd-driving algorithms. By leveraging the open-source OpenStreetMap map database and a heterogeneous multi-agent motion prediction model developed in our earlier work, SUMMIT simulates dense, unregulated urban traffic for heterogeneous agents at any worldwide locations that OpenStreetMap supports. SUMMIT is built as an extension of CARLA and inherits from it the physics and visual realism for autonomous driving simulation. SUMMIT supports a wide range of applications, including perception, vehicle control and planning, and end-to-end learning. We provide a context-aware planner together with benchmark scenarios and show that SUMMIT generates complex, realistic traffic behaviors in challenging crowd-driving settings.


Title: Toward Optimal FDM Toolpath Planning with Monte Carlo Tree Search
Key Words: machine tools  Monte Carlo methods  optimisation  planning  rapid prototyping (industrial)  search problems  tree searching  3D printing slice  dependency graph  MCTS-based algorithm  local search  toolpath quality  Monte Carlo tree search  optimal FDM toolpath planning  Planning  Monte Carlo methods  Three-dimensional printing  Solid modeling  Clustering algorithms  Printers  Geometry 
Abstract: The most widely used methods for toolpath planning in 3D printing slice the input model into successive 2D layers to construct the toolpath. Unfortunately the methods can incur a substantial amount of wasted motion (i.e., the extruder is moving while not printing). In recent years we have introduced a new paradigm that characterizes the space of feasible toolpaths using a dependency graph on the input model, along with several algorithms that optimize objective functions (wasted motion or print time). A natural question that arises is, under what circumstances can we efficiently compute an optimal toolpath? In this paper, we give an algorithm for computing fused deposition modeling (FDM) toolpaths that utilizes Monte Carlo Tree Search (MCTS), a powerful generalpurpose method for navigating large search spaces that is guaranteed to converge to the optimal solution. Under reasonable assumptions on printer geometry that allow us to compress the dependency graph, our MCTS-based algorithm converges to find the optimal toolpath. We validate our algorithm on a dataset of 75 models and examine the performance on MCTS against our previous best local search-based algorithm in terms of toolpath quality. We show that a relatively short time budget for MCTS yields results on par with local search, while a larger time budget yields a 15% improvement in quality over local search. Additionally, we examine the properties of the models and MCTS executions that lead to better or worse results.


Title: Reactive Control and Metric-Topological Planning for Exploration
Key Words: collision avoidance  graph theory  image sequences  mobile robots  navigation  robot vision  optic flow  insect visuomotor system  obstacle detection  topological graph  metric-topological planning  autonomous navigation  robotic platforms  bio-inspired reactive control  spatial decomposition  obstacle avoidance  Fourier residual analysis  image processing  continuous occupancy grid  graph edge  Optical feedback  Optical sensors  Optical imaging  Planning  Navigation  Harmonic analysis  Mathematical model  exploration  centering  control  mapping 
Abstract: Autonomous navigation in unknown environments with the intent of exploring all traversable areas is a significant challenge for robotic platforms. In this paper, a simple yet reliable method for exploring unknown environments is presented based on bio-inspired reactive control and metric-topological planning. The reactive control algorithm is modeled after the spatial decomposition of wide and small-field patterns of optic flow in the insect visuomotor system. Centering behaviour and small obstacle detection and avoidance are achieved through wide-field integration and Fourier residual analysis of instantaneous measured nearness respectively. A topological graph is estimated using image processing techniques on a continuous occupancy grid. Node paths are rapidly generated to navigate to the nearest unexplored edge in the graph. It is shown through rigorous field-testing that the proposed control and planning method is robust, reliable, and computationally efficient.


Title: Information Theoretic Active Exploration in Signed Distance Fields
Key Words: deterministic algorithms  mobile robots  optimisation  path planning  sensors  tree searching  robot sensing trajectories  autonomous TSDF mapping  TSDF uncertainty  sensor measurements  efficient uncertainty prediction  long-horizon optimization  deterministic tree-search algorithm  information gain  TSDF distribution  efficient planning  uninformative sensing trajectories  active TSDF mapping approach  simulated environments  information theoretic active exploration  occupancy mapping  mobile robot  truncated signed distance field  robot motion primitive sequences  branch-and-bound pruning  complex visibility constraints  Robot sensing systems  Trajectory  Measurement uncertainty  Standards  Uncertainty 
Abstract: This paper focuses on exploration and occupancy mapping of unknown environments using a mobile robot. While a truncated signed distance field (TSDF) is a popular, efficient, and highly accurate representation of occupancy, few works have considered optimizing robot sensing trajectories for autonomous TSDF mapping. We propose an efficient approach for maintaining TSDF uncertainty and predicting its evolution from potential future sensor measurements without actually receiving them. Efficient uncertainty prediction is critical for long-horizon optimization of potential sensing trajectories. We develop a deterministic tree-search algorithm that evaluates the information gain between the TSDF distribution and potential observations along sequences of robot motion primitives. Efficient planning is achieved by branch-and-bound pruning of uninformative sensing trajectories. The effectiveness of our active TSDF mapping approach is evaluated in several simulated environments with complex visibility constraints.


Title: 3D Scene Geometry-Aware Constraint for Camera Localization with Deep Learning
Key Words: cameras  convolutional neural nets  feature extraction  image classification  image motion analysis  image reconstruction  image segmentation  learning (artificial intelligence)  mobile robots  motion control  path planning  pose estimation  3D scene geometry-aware constraint  camera localization  deep learning  fundamental component  autonomous driving vehicles  path planning  motion control  end-to-end approaches  convolutional neural network  3D-geometry based traditional methods  compact network  absolute camera  image contents  image-level structural similarity loss  challenging scenes  Cameras  Three-dimensional displays  Training  Geometry  Robot vision systems  Transforms 
Abstract: Camera localization is a fundamental and key component of autonomous driving vehicles and mobile robots to localize themselves globally for further environment perception, path planning and motion control. Recently end-to-end approaches based on convolutional neural network have been much studied to achieve or even exceed 3D-geometry based traditional methods. In this work, we propose a compact network for absolute camera pose regression. Inspired from those traditional methods, a 3D scene geometry-aware constraint is also introduced by exploiting all available information including motion, depth and image contents. We add this constraint as a regularization term to our proposed network by defining a pixel-level photometric loss and an image-level structural similarity loss. To benchmark our method, different challenging scenes including indoor and outdoor environment are tested with our proposed approach and state-of-the-arts. And the experimental results demonstrate significant performance improvement of our method on both prediction accuracy and convergence efficiency.


Title: Fog Robotics Algorithms for Distributed Motion Planning Using Lambda Serverless Computing
Key Words: computational complexity  control engineering computing  manipulators  mobile robots  motion control  parallel processing  path planning  distributed motion planning  Lambda serverless computing  motion planning algorithms  RRT  computational load  local environment changes  cloud-based serverless lambda computing  parallel computation  serverless computers  learned parallel allocation  Amazon Lambda  sporadically computationally intensive motion planning tasks  fog robotics algorithms  Planning  Parallel processing  FAA  Robot kinematics  Cloud computing  Probabilistic logic 
Abstract: For robots using motion planning algorithms such as RRT and RRT*, the computational load can vary by orders of magnitude as the complexity of the local environment changes. To adaptively provide such computation, we propose Fog Robotics algorithms in which cloud-based serverless lambda computing provides parallel computation on demand. To use this parallelism, we propose novel motion planning algorithms that scale effectively with an increasing number of serverless computers. However, given that the allocation of computing is typically bounded by both monetary and time constraints, we show how prior learning can be used to efficiently allocate resources at runtime. We demonstrate the algorithms and application of learned parallel allocation in both simulation and with the Fetch commercial mobile manipulator using Amazon Lambda to complete a sequence of sporadically computationally intensive motion planning tasks.


Title: R3T: Rapidly-exploring Random Reachable Set Tree for Optimal Kinodynamic Planning of Nonlinear Hybrid Systems
Key Words: control engineering computing  formal verification  nonlinear control systems  reachability analysis  robot dynamics  sampling methods  trees (mathematics)  R3T  random reachable set tree  optimal kinodynamic planning  nonlinear hybrid systems  reachability-based variant  rapidly-exploring random tree  multiple polytopes  reachability analysis  nonlinear systems  contact-rich robotic systems  formal verification  Planning  Approximation algorithms  Trajectory  Heuristic algorithms  Measurement  Robots  Silicon 
Abstract: We introduce R3T, a reachability-based variant of the rapidly-exploring random tree (RRT) algorithm that is suitable for (optimal) kinodynamic planning in nonlinear and hybrid systems. We developed tools to approximate reachable sets using polytopes and perform sampling-based planning with them. This method has a unique advantage in hybrid systems: different dynamic modes in the reachable set can be explicitly represented using multiple polytopes. We prove that under mild assumptions, R3T is probabilistically complete in kinodynamic systems, and asymptotically optimal through rewiring. Moreover, R3T provides a formal verification method for reachability analysis of nonlinear systems. The advantages of R3T are demonstrated with case studies on nonlinear, hybrid, and contact-rich robotic systems.


Title: DeepSemanticHPPC: Hypothesis-based Planning over Uncertain Semantic Point Clouds
Key Words: belief networks  computational geometry  image reconstruction  mobile robots  neural nets  path planning  robot vision  DeepSemanticHPPC  hypothesis-based planning  uncertain semantic point clouds  deep Bayesian neural network  flexible point cloud scene representation  sparse visual measurements  hypothesis-based path planner  uncertainty-aware hypothesis-based planner  Uncertainty  Three-dimensional displays  Trajectory  Semantics  Robots  Planning  Neural networks 
Abstract: Planning in unstructured environments is challenging - it relies on sensing, perception, scene reconstruction, and reasoning about various uncertainties. We propose DeepSemanticHPPC, a novel uncertainty-aware hypothesis-based planner for unstructured environments. Our algorithmic pipeline consists of: a deep Bayesian neural network which segments surfaces with uncertainty estimates; a flexible point cloud scene representation; a next-best-view planner which minimizes the uncertainty of scene semantics using sparse visual measurements; and a hypothesis-based path planner that proposes multiple kinematically feasible paths with evolving safety confidences given next-best-view measurements. Our pipeline iteratively decreases semantic uncertainty along planned paths, filtering out unsafe paths with high confidence. We show that our framework plans safe paths in real-world environments where existing path planners typically fail.


Title: Balancing Actuation and Computing Energy in Motion Planning
Key Words: mobile robots  motion control  path planning  balancing actuation  motion planning problems  low-energy robotic vehicles  high-endurance autonomous blimps  computing hardware  actuation hardware  CEIMP  anytime planning algorithm  actuation energy  asymptotic computational complexity  sampling-based motion planning algorithms  compute energy included motion planning algorithm  Planning  Robots  Meters  Task analysis  Hardware  Buildings  Space exploration 
Abstract: We study a novel class of motion planning problems, inspired by emerging low-energy robotic vehicles, such as insect-size flyers, chip-size satellites, and high-endurance autonomous blimps, for which the energy consumed by computing hardware during planning a path can be as large as the energy consumed by actuation hardware during the execution of the same path. We propose a new algorithm, called Compute Energy Included Motion Planning (CEIMP). CEIMP operates similarly to any other anytime planning algorithm, except it stops when it estimates further computing will require more computing energy than potential savings in actuation energy. We show that CEIMP has the same asymptotic computational complexity as existing sampling-based motion planning algorithms, such as PRM*. We also show that CEIMP outperforms the average baseline of using maximum computing resources in realistic computational experiments involving 10 floor plans from MIT buildings. In one representative experiment, CEIMP outperforms the average baseline 90.6% of the time when energy to compute one more second is equal to the energy to move one more meter, and 99.7% of the time when energy to compute one more second is equal to or greater than the energy to move 3 more meters.


Title: Posterior Sampling for Anytime Motion Planning on Graphs with Expensive-to-Evaluate Edges
Key Words: collision avoidance  graph theory  minimisation  mobile robots  7D planning problems  posterior sampling  anytime motion planning  collision checking  computational bottleneck  lazy algorithms  collision uncertainty  shortest path  real-time applications  anytime performance  anytime lazy motion planning algorithm  edge collisions  initial feasible path  shorter paths  Planning  Bayes methods  History  Uncertainty  Geometry  Learning (artificial intelligence)  Search problems 
Abstract: Collision checking is a computational bottleneck in motion planning, requiring lazy algorithms that explicitly reason about when to perform this computation. Optimism in the face of collision uncertainty minimizes the number of checks before finding the shortest path. However, this may take a prohibitively long time to compute, with no other feasible paths discovered during this period. For many real-time applications, we instead demand strong anytime performance, defined as minimizing the cumulative lengths of the feasible paths yielded over time. We introduce Posterior Sampling for Motion Planning (PSMP), an anytime lazy motion planning algorithm that leverages learned posteriors on edge collisions to quickly discover an initial feasible path and progressively yield shorter paths. PSMP obtains an expected regret bound of Õ(√(SAT)) and outperforms comparative baselines on a set of 2D and 7D planning problems.


Title: Coordinate-Free Dynamics and Differential Flatness of a Class of 6DOF Aerial Manipulators
Key Words: control system synthesis  end effectors  manipulator dynamics  manipulator kinematics  path planning  position control  simulated aerial videography task  differential flatness  6DOF aerial manipulators  coordinate-free formulation  coupled dynamics  2DOF articulated manipulator  end effector frame  Manipulator dynamics  End effectors  Trajectory  Task analysis  Planning  Vehicle dynamics 
Abstract: In this work, we derive a coordinate-free formulation of the coupled dynamics of a class of 6DOF aerial manipulators consisting of an underactuated quadrotor equipped with a 2DOF articulated manipulator, and demonstrate that the system is differentially flat with respect to the end effector pose. In particular, we require the center of mass of the entire system to be fixed in the end effector frame, suggesting a reasonable mechanical design criterion. We make use of an inertial decoupling transformation to demonstrate differential flatness, allowing us to plan dynamically feasible trajectories for the system in the space of the 6DOF pose of the end effector, which is ideal for achieving precise manipulator tasks. Simulation results validate the flatness-based planning methodology for our dynamic model, and its usefulness is demonstrated in a simulated aerial videography task.


Title: Interacting Vehicle Trajectory Prediction with Convolutional Recurrent Neural Networks
Key Words: convolutional neural nets  feature extraction  feedback  learning (artificial intelligence)  path planning  recurrent neural nets  traffic engineering computing  car  convolutional recurrent neural networks  convolutional long short term memory  Conv-LSTM  interacting vehicle trajectory prediction  novel feedback scheme  path planning  interaction learning  temporal learning  motion learning  Automobiles  Trajectory  Feature extraction  Hidden Markov models  Predictive models  Computer architecture  Road transportation 
Abstract: Anticipating the future trajectories of surrounding vehicles is a crucial and challenging task in path planning for autonomy. We propose a novel Convolutional Long Short Term Memory (Conv-LSTM) based neural network architecture to predict the future positions of cars using several seconds of historical driving observations. This consists of three modules: 1) Interaction Learning to capture the effect of surrounding cars, 2) Temporal Learning to identify the dependency on past movements and 3) Motion Learning to convert the extracted features from these two modules into future positions. To continuously achieve accurate prediction, we introduce a novel feedback scheme where the current predicted positions of each car are leveraged to update future motion, encapsulating the effect of the surrounding cars. Experiments on two public datasets demonstrate that the proposed methodology can match or outperform the state-of-the-art methods for long-term trajectory prediction.


Title: Navigation Command Matching for Vision-based Autonomous Driving
Key Words: control engineering computing  image colour analysis  learning (artificial intelligence)  mobile robots  multi-agent systems  navigation  path planning  road traffic control  robot vision  robust control  traffic engineering computing  suboptimal policy  CARLA driving benchmark  vision-based autonomous driving  imitative reinforcement learning  robust driving policy  nonsmooth rewards  state-action pairs  smooth rewards  matching measurer  navigation rewards  navigation command matching  attention-guided agent  salient regions  RGB images  Navigation  Task analysis  Trajectory  Learning (artificial intelligence)  Autonomous vehicles  Smoothing methods  Current measurement 
Abstract: Learning an optimal policy for autonomous driving task to confront with complex environment is a long- studied challenge. Imitative reinforcement learning is accepted as a promising approach to learn a robust driving policy through expert demonstrations and interactions with environments. However, this model utilizes non-smooth rewards, which have a negative impact on matching between navigation commands and trajectory (state-action pairs), and degrade the generalizability of an agent. Smooth rewards are crucial to discriminate actions generated from sub-optimal policy. In this paper, we propose a navigation command matching (NCM) model to address this issue. There are two key components in NCM, 1) a matching measurer produces smooth navigation rewards that measure matching between navigation commands and trajectory; 2) attention-guided agent performs actions given states where salient regions in RGB images (i.e. roadsides, lane markings and dynamic obstacles) are highlighted to amplify their influence on the final model. We obtain navigation rewards and store transitions to replay buffer after an episode, so NCM is able to discriminate actions generated from suboptimal policy. Experiments on CARLA driving benchmark show our proposed NCM outperforms previous state-of-the- art models on various tasks in terms of the percentage of successfully completed episodes. Moreover, our model improves generalizability of the agent and obtains good performance even in unseen scenarios.


Title: Localising Faster: Efficient and precise lidar-based robot localisation in large-scale environments
Key Words: Gaussian processes  learning (artificial intelligence)  mobile robots  Monte Carlo methods  neural nets  optical radar  path planning  recursive estimation  robot vision  SLAM (robots)  precise lidar-based robot localisation  large-scale environments  global localisation  mobile robots  Monte Carlo Localisation  MCL  fast localisation system  deep-probabilistic model  Gaussian process regression  deep kernel  precise recursive estimator  Gaussian method  deep probabilistic localisation  large-scale localisation  largescale environment  time 0.8 s  size 0.75 m  Robots  Neural networks  Three-dimensional displays  Gaussian processes  Laser radar  Monte Carlo methods  Kernel 
Abstract: This paper proposes a novel approach for global localisation of mobile robots in large-scale environments. Our method leverages learning-based localisation and filtering-based localisation, to localise the robot efficiently and precisely through seeding Monte Carlo Localisation (MCL) with a deeplearned distribution. In particular, a fast localisation system rapidly estimates the 6-DOF pose through a deep-probabilistic model (Gaussian Process Regression with a deep kernel), then a precise recursive estimator refines the estimated robot pose according to the geometric alignment. More importantly, the Gaussian method (i.e. deep probabilistic localisation) and nonGaussian method (i.e. MCL) can be integrated naturally via importance sampling. Consequently, the two systems can be integrated seamlessly and mutually benefit from each other. To verify the proposed framework, we provide a case study in large-scale localisation with a 3D lidar sensor. Our experiments on the Michigan NCLT long-term dataset show that the proposed method is able to localise the robot in 1.94 s on average (median of 0.8 s) with precision 0.75 m in a largescale environment of approximately 0.5 km2.


Title: Learning Navigation Costs from Demonstration in Partially Observable Environments
Key Words: cost optimal control  dynamic programming  learning (artificial intelligence)  learning systems  mobile robots  navigation  observability  path planning  probability  state-space methods  trajectory control  inverse reinforcement learning  safe navigation  autonomous navigation  unknown partially observable environments  navigation behavior  state-control trajectory  cost function representation  probabilistic occupancy encoder  observation sequence  cost encoder  occupancy features  representation parameters  control policy  value function  state space  motion-planning algorithm  robot navigation  navigation cost learning  dynamic  Robots  Cost function  Navigation  Planning  Feature extraction  Heuristic algorithms  Task analysis 
Abstract: This paper focuses on inverse reinforcement learning (IRL) to enable safe and efficient autonomous navigation in unknown partially observable environments. The objective is to infer a cost function that explains expert-demonstrated navigation behavior while relying only on the observations and state-control trajectory used by the expert. We develop a cost function representation composed of two parts: a probabilistic occupancy encoder, with recurrent dependence on the observation sequence, and a cost encoder, defined over the occupancy features. The representation parameters are optimized by differentiating the error between demonstrated controls and a control policy computed from the cost encoder. Such differentiation is typically computed by dynamic programming through the value function over the whole state space. We observe that this is inefficient in large partially observable environments because most states are unexplored. Instead, we rely on a closed-form subgradient of the cost-to-go obtained only over a subset of promising states via an efficient motion-planning algorithm such as A* or RRT. Our experiments show that our model exceeds the accuracy of baseline IRL algorithms in robot navigation tasks, while substantially improving the efficiency of training and test-time inference.


Title: From Bipedal Walking to Quadrupedal Locomotion: Full-Body Dynamics Decomposition for Rapid Gait Generation
Key Words: gait analysis  legged locomotion  robot dynamics  trajectory control  full-order dynamics  rapid generation  stepping-in-place gaits  diagonally symmetric ambling gait  dynamic bipedal walking  quadrupedal locomotion  rapid gait generation  hybrid dynamics  three-dimensional quadrupedal robot  hybrid zero dynamics framework  bipedal robots  bipedal walking gaits  quadrupedal trajectory  Legged locomotion  Robot kinematics  Dynamics  Nonlinear dynamical systems  Jacobian matrices  Trajectory 
Abstract: This paper systematically decomposes a quadrupedal robot into bipeds to rapidly generate walking gaits and then recomposes these gaits to obtain quadrupedal locomotion. We begin by decomposing the full-order, nonlinear and hybrid dynamics of a three-dimensional quadrupedal robot, including its continuous and discrete dynamics, into two bipedal systems that are subject to external forces. Using the hybrid zero dynamics (HZD) framework, gaits for these bipedal robots can be rapidly generated (on the order of seconds) along with corresponding controllers. The decomposition is achieved in such a way that the bipedal walking gaits and controllers can be composed to yield dynamic walking gaits for the original quadrupedal robot - the result is the rapid generation of dynamic quadruped gaits utilizing the full-order dynamics. This methodology is demonstrated through the rapid generation (3.96 seconds on average) of four stepping-in-place gaits and one diagonally symmetric ambling gait at 0.35 m/s on a quadrupedal robot - the Vision 60, with 36 state variables and 12 control inputs - both in simulation and through outdoor experiments. This suggested a new approach for fast quadrupedal trajectory planning using full-body dynamics, without the need for empirical model simplification, wherein methods from dynamic bipedal walking can be directly applied to quadrupeds.


Title: Collaborative Multi-Robot Localization in Natural Terrain*
Key Words: autonomous underwater vehicles  filtering theory  mobile robots  Monte Carlo methods  multi-robot systems  path planning  sensor fusion  Monterey Bay  terrain relative navigation  filter architecture  collaborative multirobot localization  standard TRN  Monte Carlo simulation  inter-vehicle range measurements  autonomous underwater vehicle  multirobot information  TRN techniques  covariance intersection  Robots  Correlation  Atmospheric measurements  Particle measurements  Extraterrestrial measurements  Collaboration  Navigation 
Abstract: This paper presents a novel filter architecture that allows a team of vehicles to collaboratively localize using Terrain Relative Navigation (TRN). The work explores several causes of measurement correlation that preclude the use of traditional estimators, and proposes an estimator structure that eliminates one source of measurement correlation while properly incorporating others through the use of Covariance Intersection. The result is a consistent estimator that is able to augment proven TRN techniques with multi-robot information, significantly improving localization for vehicles in uninformative terrain. The approach is demonstrated using field data from an Autonomous Underwater Vehicle (AUV) navigating with TRN in Monterey Bay and simulated inter-vehicle range measurements. In addition, a Monte Carlo simulation was used to quantify the algorithm's performance on one example mission. Monte Carlo results show that a vehicle operating in uninformative terrain has 62% lower localization error when fusing range measurements to two converged AUVs than it would using standard TRN.


Title: Efficient Large-Scale Multi-Drone Delivery Using Transit Networks
Key Words: autonomous aerial vehicles  computational complexity  graph theory  multi-robot systems  optimisation  near-optimal polynomial-time task allocation algorithm  delivery sequences  two-layer approach  multifaceted complexity  maximum time  comprehensive algorithmic framework  public transit vehicles  efficient large-scale multidrone delivery  transit network  bounded-suboptimal multiagent pathfinding techniques  Drones  Task analysis  Resource management  Routing  Urban areas  Planning 
Abstract: We consider the problem of controlling a large fleet of drones to deliver packages simultaneously across broad urban areas. To conserve energy, drones hop between public transit vehicles (e.g., buses and trams). We design a comprehensive algorithmic framework that strives to minimize the maximum time to complete any delivery. We address the multifaceted complexity of the problem through a two-layer approach. First, the upper layer assigns drones to package delivery sequences with a near-optimal polynomial-time task allocation algorithm. Then, the lower layer executes the allocation by periodically routing the fleet over the transit network while employing efficient bounded-suboptimal multi-agent pathfinding techniques tailored to our setting. Experiments demonstrate the efficiency of our approach on settings with up to 200 drones, 5000 packages, and transit networks with up to 8000 stops in San Francisco and Washington DC. Our results show that the framework computes solutions within a few seconds (up to 2 minutes at most) on commodity hardware, and that drones travel up to 450% of their flight range with public transit.


Title: Learning to combine primitive skills: A step towards versatile robotic manipulation §
Key Words: image motion analysis  learning (artificial intelligence)  manipulators  path planning  robot vision  dynamic scene changes  visual inputs  task-specific reward engineering  previous limitations  reinforcement learning approach  primitive skills  learning methods  intermediate rewards  complete task demonstrations  vision-based task planning  basic skills  synthetic demonstrations  data augmentation  manipulation tasks  UR5 robotic arm  versatile robotic manipulation  robotics  traditional task  motion planning methods  state observability  Task analysis  Robots  Planning  Learning (artificial intelligence)  Training  Trajectory  Visualization 
Abstract: Manipulation tasks such as preparing a meal or assembling furniture remain highly challenging for robotics and vision. Traditional task and motion planning (TAMP) methods can solve complex tasks but require full state observability and are not adapted to dynamic scene changes. Recent learning methods can operate directly on visual inputs but typically require many demonstrations and/or task-specific reward engineering. In this work we aim to overcome previous limitations and propose a reinforcement learning (RL) approach to task planning that learns to combine primitive skills. First, compared to previous learning methods, our approach requires neither intermediate rewards nor complete task demonstrations during training. Second, we demonstrate the versatility of our vision-based task planning in challenging settings with temporary occlusions and dynamic scene changes. Third, we propose an efficient training of basic skills from few synthetic demonstrations by exploring recent CNN architectures and data augmentation. Notably, while all of our policies are learned on visual inputs in simulated environments, we demonstrate the successful transfer and high success rates when applying such policies to manipulation tasks on a real UR5 robotic arm.


Title: Arm-hand motion-force coordination for physical interactions with non-flat surfaces using dynamical systems: Toward compliant robotic massage
Key Words: biomechanics  dexterous manipulators  force control  motion control  path planning  regression analysis  support vector machines  unified motion-force control approach  human limb  compliant robotic massage  dynamical system approach  skin surface  robot fingers  complexity increases  manipulation tasks  dynamical systems  nonflat surface  physical interactions  arm-hand motion-force coordination  desired motion patterns  unknown surface  mannequin arm  Allegro robotic hand  KUKA IIWA robotic arm  robotic fingers  DS-based impedance control  desired motions  distance-to-surface mapping  Surface impedance  Robot kinematics  Task analysis  Force  Manipulators  Thumb 
Abstract: Many manipulation tasks require coordinated motions for arm and fingers. Complexity increases when the task requires to control for the force at contact against a non-flat surface; This becomes even more challenging when this contact is done on a human. All these challenges are regrouped when one, for instance, massages a human limb. When massaging, the robotic arm is required to continuously adapt its orientation and distance to the limb while the robot fingers exert desired patterns of forces and motion on the skin surface. To address these challenges, we adopt a Dynamical System (DS) approach that offers a unified motion-force control approach and enables to easily coordinate multiple degrees of freedom. As each human limb may slightly differ, we learn a model of the surface using support vector regression (SVR) which enable us to obtain a distance-to-surface mapping. The gradient of this mapping, along with the DS, generates the desired motions for the interaction with the surface. A DS-based impedance control for the robotic fingers allows to control separately for force along the normal direction of the surface while moving in the tangential plane. We validate our approach using the KUKA IIWA robotic arm and Allegro robotic hand for massaging a mannequin arm covered with a skin-like material. We show that our approach allows for 1) reactive motion planning to reach for an unknown surface, 2) following desired motion patterns on the surface, and 3) exerting desired interaction forces profiles. Our results show the effectiveness of our approach; especially the robustness toward uncertainties for shape and the given location of the surface.


Title: Motion Reasoning for Goal-Based Imitation Learning
Key Words: inference mechanisms  learning (artificial intelligence)  mobile robots  path planning  robot vision  video signal processing  goal-based imitation learning  third-person video demonstration  human demonstrators  motion reasoning  motion planning  Task analysis  Trajectory  Cognition  Planning  Motion segmentation  Human-robot interaction 
Abstract: We address goal-based imitation learning, where the aim is to output the symbolic goal from a third-person video demonstration. This enables the robot to plan for execution and reproduce the same goal in a completely different environment. The key challenge is that the goal of a video demonstration is often ambiguous at the level of semantic actions. The human demonstrators might unintentionally achieve certain subgoals in the demonstrations with their actions. Our main contribution is to propose a motion reasoning framework that combines task and motion planning to disambiguate the true intention of the demonstrator in the video demonstration. This allows us to recognize the goals that cannot be disambiguated by previous action-based approaches. We evaluate our approach on a new dataset of 96 video demonstrations in a mockup kitchen environment. We show that our motion reasoning plays an important role in recognizing the actual goal of the demonstrator and improves the success rate by over 20%. We further show that by using the automatically inferred goal from the video demonstration, our robot is able to reproduce the same task in a real kitchen environment.


Title: Deep compositional robotic planners that follow natural language commands
Key Words: convolutional neural nets  mobile robots  natural language processing  path planning  deep compositional robotic planners  natural language commands  sampling-based robotic planner  continuous configuration space  complex command  sampling-based planner  recurrent hierarchical deep network  Robots  Task analysis  Planning  Natural languages  Aerospace electronics  Cognition  Space exploration 
Abstract: We demonstrate how a sampling-based robotic planner can be augmented to learn to understand a sequence of natural language commands in a continuous configuration space to move and manipulate objects. Our approach combines a deep network structured according to the parse of a complex command that includes objects, verbs, spatial relations, and attributes, with a sampling-based planner, RRT. A recurrent hierarchical deep network controls how the planner explores the environment, determines when a planned path is likely to achieve a goal, and estimates the confidence of each move to trade off exploitation and exploration between the network and the planner. Planners are designed to have near-optimal behavior when information about the task is missing, while networks learn to exploit observations which are available from the environment, making the two naturally complementary. Combining the two enables generalization to new maps, new kinds of obstacles, and more complex sentences that do not occur in the training set. Little data is required to train the model despite it jointly acquiring a CNN that extracts features from the environment as it learns the meanings of words. The model provides a level of interpretability through the use of attention maps allowing users to see its reasoning steps despite being an end-to-end model. This end-to-end model allows robots to learn to follow natural language commands in challenging continuous environments.


Title: Learning User Preferences from Corrections on State Lattices
Key Words: human-robot interaction  learning (artificial intelligence)  learning systems  mobile robots  path planning  robot programming  state lattices  autonomous mobile robots  motion planning problem  robot traffic  motion features  learned user preferences  learning from corrections  algorithm completeness proving  human robot interaction  Task analysis  Lattices  Cost function  Mobile robots  Robot motion  Learning (artificial intelligence) 
Abstract: Enabling a broader range of users to efficiently deploy autonomous mobile robots requires intuitive frameworks for specifying a robot's task and behaviour. We present a novel approach using learning from corrections (LfC), where a user is iteratively presented with a solution to a motion planning problem. Users might have preferences about parts of a robot's environment that are suitable for robot traffic or that should be avoided as well as preferences on the control actions a robot can take. The robot is initially unaware of these preferences; thus, we ask the user to provide a correction to the presented path. We assume that the user evaluates paths based on environment and motion features. From a sequence of corrections we learn weights for these features, which are then considered by the motion planner, resulting in future paths that better fit the user's preferences. We prove completeness of our algorithm and demonstrate its performance in simulations. Thereby, we show that the learned preferences yield good results not only for a set of training tasks but also for test tasks, as well as for different types of user behaviour.


Title: Visual Servoing-based Navigation for Monitoring Row-Crop Fields
Key Words: agricultural robots  agriculture  agrochemicals  crops  mobile robots  path planning  robot vision  visual servoing  visual servoing-based navigation  autonomous navigation  field robots  precision agriculture tasks  agrochemicals  visual-based navigation framework  crop-row structure  row-crop fields monitoring  Agriculture  Navigation  Cameras  Robot vision systems  Visualization  Monitoring 
Abstract: Autonomous navigation is a pre-requisite for field robots to carry out precision agriculture tasks. Typically, a robot has to navigate along a crop field multiple times during a season for monitoring the plants, for applying agrochemicals, or for performing targeted interventions. In this paper, we propose a visual-based navigation framework tailored to row-crop fields that exploits the regular crop-row structure present in fields. Our approach uses only the images from on-board cameras without the need for performing explicit localization or maintaining a map of the field. Thus, it can operate without expensive RTK-GPS solutions often used in agricultural automation systems. Our navigation approach allows the robot to follow the crop rows accurately and handles the switch to the next row seamlessly within the same framework. We implemented our approach using C++ and ROS and thoroughly tested it in several simulated fields with different shapes and sizes. We also demonstrated the system running at frame-rate on an actual robot operating on a test row-crop field. The code and data have been published.


Title: Time Optimal Motion Planning with ZMP Stability Constraint for Timber Manipulation
Key Words: humanoid robots  legged locomotion  mobile robots  motion control  optimisation  path planning  robot kinematics  stability  timber  time optimal motion planning  ZMP stability constraint  timber manipulation  dynamic stability-constrained optimal motion  timber harvesting machine  rough terrain  kinematics model  optimization problem  computation time  motion plan  dynamic stability constraint  zero moment point stability measure  Planning  Kinematics  Manipulator dynamics  Acceleration  Stability analysis  Computational modeling 
Abstract: This paper presents a dynamic stability-constrained optimal motion planning algorithm developed for a timber harvesting machine working on rough terrain. First, the kinematics model of the machine, and the Zero Moment Point (ZMP) stability measure is presented. Then, an approach to simplify the model to gain insight and achieve a fast solution of the optimization problem is introduced. The performance and computation time of the motion plan obtained with the simplified model is compared against that obtained with the full kinematics model of the machine with the help of MATLAB simulations. The results demonstrate feasibility of fast motion planning while satisfying the dynamic stability constraint.


Title: Online calibration of exterior orientations of a vehicle-mounted surround-view camera system
Key Words: calibration  cameras  computer vision  motion estimation  path planning  road vehicles  large-scale outdoor experiments  indoor experiments  exterior orientation parameters  highly practicable online optimisation strategy  complete online optimisation strategy  camera-to-camera transformations  camera-to-vehicle rotations  camera positions  exterior orientation calibration  vision-based vehicle motion estimation  neighbouring views  extrinsic calibration  intelligent vehicle behaviour  exterior perception modality  passenger vehicles  vehicle-mounted surround-view camera system  online calibration  Cameras  Calibration  Optimization  Motion estimation  Geometry  Automobiles  Mirrors 
Abstract: The increasing availability of surround-view camera systems in passenger vehicles motivates their use as an exterior perception modality for intelligent vehicle behaviour. An important problem within this context is the extrinsic calibration between the cameras, which is challenging due to the often reduced overlap between the fields of view of neighbouring views. Our work is motivated by two insights. First, we argue that the accuracy of vision-based vehicle motion estimation depends crucially on the quality of exterior orientation calibration, while design parameters for camera positions typically provide sufficient accuracy. Second, we demonstrate how planar vehicle motion related direction vectors can be used to accurately identify individual camera-to-vehicle rotations, which are more useful than the commonly and tediously derived camera-to-camera transformations. We present a complete and highly practicable online optimisation strategy to obtain the exterior orientation parameters and conclude with successful tests on simulated, indoor, and large-scale outdoor experiments.


Title: Planning, Learning and Reasoning Framework for Robot Truck Unloading
Key Words: control engineering computing  decision making  industrial manipulators  inference mechanisms  learning (artificial intelligence)  path planning  production engineering computing  unloading  reasoning framework  industrial manipulator robot  real-time motion planning  complex robotic system  high-level decision-making  belief space planning  offline learning  execution module  robot truck unloading  online decision-making  Planning  Robot sensing systems  Task analysis  Decision making  Collision avoidance  Real-time systems 
Abstract: We consider the task of autonomously unloading boxes from trucks using an industrial manipulator robot. There are multiple challenges that arise: (1) real-time motion planning for a complex robotic system carrying two articulated mechanisms, an arm and a scooper, (2) decision-making in terms of what action to execute next given imperfect information about boxes such as their masses, (3) accounting for the sequential nature of the problem where current actions affect future state of the boxes, and (4) real-time execution that interleaves high-level decision-making with lower level motion planning. In this work, we propose a planning, learning, and reasoning framework to tackle these challenges, and describe its components including motion planning, belief space planning for offline learning, online decision-making based on offline learning, and an execution module to combine decision-making with motion planning. We analyze the performance of the framework on real-world scenarios. In particular, motion planning and execution modules are evaluated in simulation and on a real robot, while offline learning and online decision-making are evaluated in simulated real-world scenarios.


Title: GOMP: Grasp-Optimized Motion Planning for Bin Picking
Key Words: collision avoidance  concave programming  dexterous manipulators  grippers  industrial manipulators  manipulator dynamics  motion control  quadratic programming  warehouse automation  GOMP  bin-picking robot  robot dynamics  grasp planner  motion planner  robot bin picking  picks-per-hour  PPH  grasp-analysis tools  robot gripper  grasp-optimized motion planning  warehouse automation  Dex-Net  degree of freedom  sequential quadratic programming  obstacle avoidance  time-minimization  Trajectory  Grippers  Robot sensing systems  Planning  Manipulators  Optimization 
Abstract: Rapid and reliable robot bin picking is a critical challenge in automating warehouses, often measured in picks-per-hour (PPH). We explore increasing PPH using faster motions based on optimizing over a set of candidate grasps. The source of this set of grasps is two-fold: (1) grasp-analysis tools such as Dex-Net generate multiple candidate grasps, and (2) each of these grasps has a degree of freedom about which a robot gripper can rotate. In this paper, we present Grasp-Optimized Motion Planning (GOMP), an algorithm that speeds up the execution of a bin-picking robot's operations by incorporating robot dynamics and a set of candidate grasps produced by a grasp planner into an optimizing motion planner. We compute motions by optimizing with sequential quadratic programming (SQP) and iteratively updating trust regions to account for the non-convex nature of the problem. In our formulation, we constrain the motion to remain within the mechanical limits of the robot while avoiding obstacles. We further convert the problem to a time-minimization by repeatedly shorting a time horizon of a trajectory until the SQP is infeasible. In experiments with a UR5, GOMP achieves a speedup of 9x over a baseline planner.


Title: Motion Planning and Task Allocation for a Jumping Rover Team
Key Words: collision avoidance  integer programming  linear programming  mobile robots  multi-robot systems  planetary rovers  travelling salesman problems  trees (mathematics)  jumping rover team  robotic team  unmanned ground vehicles  hybrid operational modes  multiple traveling salesman problem  mTSP  ground surface  jumping capability  optimal path  mixed-integer linear programming problem  RRT*  multiple UGV  optimized motion  customized jumping rovers  Planning  Task analysis  Smoothing methods  Resource management  Mobile robots  Wheels  Jumping Robots  Multiple Traveling Salesman Problem  Path Planning  Rapidly-exploring Random Tree  Mixed-Integer Linear Programming 
Abstract: This paper presents a cooperative robotic team composed of unmanned ground vehicles (UGVs) with hybrid operational modes to tackle the multiple traveling salesman problem (mTSP) with obstacles. The hybrid operational modes allow every UGV in the team to not only travel on a ground surface but also jump over obstacles. We name these UGVs jumping rovers. The jumping capability provides a flexible form of locomotion by leaping and landing on top of obstacles instead of navigating around obstacles. To solve the mTSP, an optimal path between any two objective points in an mTSP is determined by the optimized rapidly-exploring random tree method, named RRT*, and is further improved through a refined RRT* algorithm to find a smoother path between targets. We then formulate the mTSP as a mixed-integer linear programming (MILP) problem to search for the most cost-effective combination of paths for multiple UGVs. The effectiveness of the hybrid operational modes and optimized motion with assigned tasks is verified in an indoor, physical experimental environment using the customized jumping rovers.


Title: Active 3D Modeling via Online Multi-View Stereo
Key Words: image reconstruction  stereo image processing  low-quality surfaces  exploration trial  active 3D modeling  online multiview stereo  large-scale structure monitoring  image acquisition  reconstruction quality  view path-planning method  online MVS system  online feedbacks  image reconstruction  camera trajectory  real-time three-dimensional model construction  Three-dimensional displays  Image reconstruction  Surface reconstruction  Computational modeling  Solid modeling  Trajectory  Cameras 
Abstract: Multi-view stereo (MVS) algorithms have been commonly used to model large-scale structures. When processing MVS, image acquisition is an important issue because its reconstruction quality depends heavily on the acquired images. Recently, an explore-then-exploit strategy has been used to acquire images for MVS. This method first constructs a coarse model by exploring an entire scene using a pre-allocated camera trajectory. Then, it rescans the unreconstructed regions from the coarse model. However, this strategy is inefficient because of the frequent overlap of the initial and rescanning trajectories. Furthermore, given the complete coverage of images, MVS algorithms do not guarantee an accurate reconstruction result.In this study, we propose a novel view path-planning method based on an online MVS system. This method aims to incrementally construct the target three-dimensional (3D) model in real time. View paths are continually planned based on online feedbacks from the partially constructed model. The obtained paths fully cover low-quality surfaces while maximizing the reconstruction performance of MVS. Experimental results demonstrate that the proposed method can construct high quality 3D models with one exploration trial, without any rescanning trial as in the explore-then-exploit method.


Title: Reoriented Short-Cuts (RSC): An Adjustment Method for Locally Optimal Path Short-Cutting in High DoF Configuration Spaces
Key Words: collision avoidance  computational complexity  Gaussian processes  graph theory  manipulators  mobile robots  optimisation  single homotopy class  asymptotic convergence  single DoF  path segments  RSC  zero-volume convergence region  adjustment method  high DoF configuration spaces  reoriented short-cuts  locally optimal path short-cutting  high degree of freedom problems  informed Gaussian sampling technique  IGS  collision checking computation  robot manipulation  rotation oriented problems  translation oriented problems  Convergence  Optimization  Robots  Planning  Complexity theory  Trajectory  Gaussian distribution 
Abstract: This paper presents Reoriented Short-Cuts (RSC): A modification of the traditional Short-Cut technique, allowing almost sure, single homotopy class, asymptotic convergence in high degree of freedom (DoF) problems. An additional Informed Gaussian Sampling (IGS) technique is also introduced for convergence comparison. Traditionally, Short-Cut methods are used as a final technique to further optimize an initially found path. Typical Short-Cut methods fail as a single DoF may converge faster than the remaining, creating a zero-volume region between path segments and objects, halting further improvements. Previous attempts to solve this separate DoFs individually, drastically increasing collision checking computation. RSC and IGS control the shifting of the vertex to be Short-Cut, moving vertex positions by reorienting the line segments, removing the zero-volume convergence region. These methods are compared to similar strategies in a variety of problems including random worlds, and robot manipulation, to show the convergence across both translation and rotation oriented problems.


Title: TUNERCAR: A Superoptimization Toolchain for Autonomous Racing
Key Words: automobiles  mobile robots  optimisation  path planning  random processes  search problems  autonomous vehicles  online planning  TUNERCAR  superoptimization toolchain  autonomous racing  vehicle parameters  autonomous racecar  systems infrastructure  parallel implementation  CMA-ES  lap time  naive random search  racing strategy  Optimization  Sociology  Statistics  Vehicle dynamics  Hardware  Robots  Planning 
Abstract: TUNERCAR is a toolchain that jointly optimizes racing strategy, planning methods, control algorithms, and vehicle parameters for an autonomous racecar. In this paper, we detail the target hardware, software, simulators, and systems infrastructure for this toolchain. Our methodology employs a parallel implementation of CMA-ES which enables simulations to proceed 6 times faster than real-world rollouts. We show our approach can reduce the lap times in autonomous racing, given a fixed computational budget. For all tested tracks, our method provides the lowest lap time, and relative improvements in lap time between 7-21%. We demonstrate improvements over a naive random search method with equivalent computational budget of over 15 seconds/lap, and improvements over expert solutions of over 2 seconds/lap. We further compare the performance of our method against hand-tuned solutions submitted by over 30 international teams, comprised of graduate students working in the field of autonomous vehicles. Finally, we discuss the effectiveness of utilizing an online planning mechanism to reduce the reality gap between our simulation and actual tests.


Title: Risk Assessment and Planning with Bidirectional Reachability for Autonomous Driving
Key Words: collision avoidance  mobile robots  path planning  risk analysis  road safety  road traffic control  road vehicles  autonomous driving  subsequent planning  risk assessment algorithms  ego vehicle  risk-inducing factors  bidirectional reachability  risk planning  Risk management  Planning  Prediction algorithms  Autonomous vehicles  Robot sensing systems  Navigation  Probabilistic logic 
Abstract: Risk assessment to quantify the danger associated with taking a certain action is critical to navigating safely through crowded urban environments during autonomous driving. Risk assessment and subsequent planning is usually done by first tracking and predicting trajectories of other agents, such as vehicles and pedestrians, and then choosing an action to avoid future collisions. However, few existing risk assessment algorithms handle occlusion and other sensory limitations effectively. One either assesses the risk in the worst-case scenario and thus makes the ego vehicle overly conservative, or predicts as many hidden agents as possible and thus makes the computation intensive. This paper explores the possibility of efficient risk assessment under occlusion via both forward and backward reachability. The proposed algorithm can not only identify the location of risk-inducing factors, but can also be used during motion planning. The proposed method is evaluated on various four-way highly occluded intersections with up to five other vehicles in the scene. Compared with other risk assessment algorithms, the proposed method shows better efficiency, meaning that the ego vehicle reaches the goal at a higher speed. In addition, it also lowers the median collision rate by 7.5× when compared to state of the art techniques.


Title: Driving in Dense Traffic with Model-Free Reinforcement Learning
Key Words: collision avoidance  learning (artificial intelligence)  predictive control  road traffic control  traffic engineering computing  dense traffic  model-free reinforcement learning  control methods  autonomous vehicle  obstacle-free volume  deep reinforcement learning  continuous control policy  target road lane  model-predictive control-based algorithms  Roads  Autonomous vehicles  Learning (artificial intelligence)  Task analysis  Benchmark testing  Trajectory 
Abstract: Traditional planning and control methods could fail to find a feasible trajectory for an autonomous vehicle to execute amongst dense traffic on roads. This is because the obstacle-free volume in spacetime is very small in these scenarios for the vehicle to drive through. However, that does not mean the task is infeasible since human drivers are known to be able to drive amongst dense traffic by leveraging the cooperativeness of other drivers to open a gap. The traditional methods fail to take into account the fact that the actions taken by an agent affect the behaviour of other vehicles on the road. In this work, we rely on the ability of deep reinforcement learning to implicitly model such interactions and learn a continuous control policy over the action space of an autonomous vehicle. The application we consider requires our agent to negotiate and open a gap in the road in order to successfully merge or change lanes. Our policy learns to repeatedly probe into the target road lane while trying to find a safe spot to move in to. We compare against two model-predictive control-based algorithms and show that our policy outperforms them in simulation. As part of this work, we introduce a benchmark for driving in dense traffic for use by the community.


Title: Analyzing the Suitability of Cost Functions for Explaining and Imitating Human Driving Behavior based on Inverse Reinforcement Learning
Key Words: behavioural sciences computing  driver information systems  learning (artificial intelligence)  path planning  road safety  road traffic  road vehicles  vehicles  human drivers  interactive driving  cooperative behavior  dense traffic  autonomous vehicles  safer interaction  cost function selection  cost function structures  inverse reinforcement learning  human driven trajectories  human driving behavior imitation  human driving behavior explanation  theory of mind  Cost function  Trajectory  Vehicles  Roads  Learning (artificial intelligence)  Safety  Planning  Automated vehicles  cost function  inverse reinforcement learning  imitation learning  cooperative motion planning 
Abstract: Autonomous vehicles are sharing the road with human drivers. In order to facilitate interactive driving and cooperative behavior in dense traffic, a thorough understanding and representation of other traffic participants' behavior are necessary. Cost functions (or reward functions) have been widely used to describe the behavior of human drivers since they can not only explicitly incorporate the rationality of human drivers and the theory of mind (TOM), but also share similarity with the motion planning problem of autonomous vehicles. Hence, more human-like driving behavior and comprehensible trajectories can be generated to enable safer interaction and cooperation. However, the selection of cost functions in different driving scenarios is not trivial, and there is no systematic summary and analysis for cost function selection and learning from a variety of driving scenarios. In this work, we aim to investigate to what extent cost functions are suitable for explaining and imitating human driving behavior. Further, we focus on how cost functions differ from each other in different driving scenarios. Towards this goal, we first comprehensively review existing cost function structures in literature. Based on that, we point out required conditions for demonstrations to be suitable for inverse reinforcement learning (IRL). Finally, we use IRL to explore suitable features and learn cost function weights from human driven trajectories in three different scenarios.


Title: Toward Autonomous Robotic Micro-Suturing using Optical Coherence Tomography Calibration and Path Planning
Key Words: biological tissues  biomedical optical imaging  calibration  control engineering computing  iterative methods  medical image processing  medical robotics  mobile robots  needles  optical tomography  path planning  phantoms  pose estimation  surgery  autonomous robotic microsuturing  prior autonomous suturing robots  planned entry  suture needle  animal tissue  tissue phantoms  exit points  iterative closest points  keypoint identification  wound detection  robot-needle transforms  robot-OCT  imaging feedback  3D optical coherence tomography system  robotic suturing system  soft tissue  sub-millimeter precision  human surgeons  robotic automation  path planning  optical coherence tomography calibration  Needles  Robots  Wounds  Calibration  Surgery  Imaging  Three-dimensional displays 
Abstract: Robotic automation has the potential to assist human surgeons in performing suturing tasks in microsurgery, and in order to do so a robot must be able to guide a needle with sub-millimeter precision through soft tissue. This paper presents a robotic suturing system that uses 3D optical coherence tomography (OCT) system for imaging feedback. Calibration of the robot-OCT and robot-needle transforms, wound detection, keypoint identification, and path planning are all performed automatically. The calibration method handles pose uncertainty when the needle is grasped using a variant of iterative closest points. The path planner uses the identified wound shape to calculate needle entry and exit points to yield an evenly-matched wound shape after closure. Experiments on tissue phantoms and animal tissue demonstrate that the system can pass a suture needle through wounds with 0.200 mm overall accuracy in achieving the planned entry and exit points, and over 20× more precise than prior autonomous suturing robots.


Title: MAMS-A*: Multi-Agent Multi-Scale A*
Key Words: graph theory  multi-agent systems  path planning  search problems  local search  local inconsistency conditions  common subgraph  provably optimal path  informative graph  search algorithm  distributed agents  single-query shortest path  search space  common environment  multiresolution graph  multiagent multiscale A*  Planning  Hypercubes  Search problems  Legged locomotion  Wavelet transforms  Aerospace engineering  Electronic mail 
Abstract: We present a multi-scale forward search algorithm for distributed agents to solve single-query shortest path planning problems. Each agent first builds a representation of its own search space of the common environment as a multi-resolution graph, it communicates with the other agents the result of its local search, and it uses received information from other agents to refine its own graph and update the local inconsistency conditions. As a result, all agents attain a common subgraph that includes a provably optimal path in the most informative graph available among all agents, if one exists, without necessarily communicating the entire graph. We prove the completeness and optimality of the proposed algorithm, and present numerical results supporting the advantages of the proposed approach.


Title: Weighted Buffered Voronoi Cells for Distributed Semi-Cooperative Behavior
Key Words: collision avoidance  computational geometry  game theory  mobile robots  multi-agent systems  multi-robot systems  selfish agent  relative cell  collision-free configuration  egoistic weights  altruistic agents  distributed semi  semicooperative multiagent navigation policies  collision avoidance  dynamic weights  lower relative weight  buffered distance  agent weights  selfish behavior  prioritized behavior  weighted buffered Voronoi tessellation  weighted buffered Voronoi cells  Navigation  Robot kinematics  Collision avoidance  Games  Planning  Safety 
Abstract: This paper introduces the Weighted Buffered Voronoi tessellation, which allows us to define distributed, semicooperative multi-agent navigation policies with guarantees on collision avoidance. We generate the Voronoi cells with dynamic weights that bias the boundary towards the agent with the lower relative weight while always maintaining a buffered distance between two agents. By incorporating agent weights, we can encode selfish or prioritized behavior among agents, where a more selfish agent will have a larger relative cell over less selfish agents. We consider this semi-cooperative since agents do not cooperate in symmetric ways. Furthermore, when all agents start in a collision-free configuration and plan their control actions within their cells, we prove that no agents will collide. Simulations demonstrate the performance of our algorithm for agents navigating to goal locations in a position-swapping game. We observe that agents with more egoistic weights consistently travel shorter paths to their goal than more altruistic agents.


Title: Incorporating Motion Planning Feasibility Considerations during Task-Agent Assignment to Perform Complex Tasks Using Mobile Manipulators
Key Words: manipulators  mobile robots  multi-robot systems  path planning  task-agent assignment  complex tasks  multiarm mobile manipulators  multiple robotic agents  expensive motion planning queries  speed-up techniques  spatial constraint checking  conservative surrogates  symbolic conditions  high-DOF robotic agents  Task analysis  Planning  Manipulators  Robot kinematics  Containers  Trajectory 
Abstract: Multi-arm mobile manipulators can be represented as a combination of multiple robotic agents from the perspective of task-assignment and motion planning. Depending upon the task, agents might collaborate or work independently. Integrating motion planning with task-agent assignment is a computationally slow process as infeasible assignments can only be detected through expensive motion planning queries. We present three speed-up techniques for addressing this problem-(1) spatial constraint checking using conservative surrogates for motion planners, (2) instantiating symbolic conditions for pruning infeasible assignments, and (3) efficiently caching and reusing previously generated motion plans. We show that the developed method is useful for real-world operations that require complex interaction and coordination among high-DOF robotic agents.


Title: Online Replanning in Belief Space for Partially Observable Task and Motion Problems
Key Words: manipulators  mobile robots  motion control  path planning  execution system  deterministic cost-sensitive planning  hybrid belief states  partially observable problems  online replanning  belief space  multistep manipulation tasks  autonomous robot  Planning  Task analysis  Bayes methods  Manipulators  Aerospace electronics  Uncertainty 
Abstract: To solve multi-step manipulation tasks in the real world, an autonomous robot must take actions to observe its environment and react to unexpected observations. This may require opening a drawer to observe its contents or moving an object out of the way to examine the space behind it. Upon receiving a new observation, the robot must update its belief about the world and compute a new plan of action. In this work, we present an online planning and execution system for robots faced with these challenges. We perform deterministic cost-sensitive planning in the space of hybrid belief states to select likely-to-succeed observation actions and continuous control actions. After execution and observation, we replan using our new state estimate. We initially enforce that planner reuses the structure of the unexecuted tail of the last plan. This both improves planning efficiency and ensures that the overall policy does not undo its progress towards achieving the goal. Our approach is able to efficiently solve partially observable problems both in simulation and in a real-world kitchen.


Title: Fast Local Planning and Mapping in Unknown Off-Road Terrain
Key Words: collision avoidance  graph theory  mobile robots  motion control  remotely operated vehicles  SLAM (robots)  trajectory control  off-road terrain  on-line mapping  planning solution  obstacle detection  terrain gradient map  simple cost map  adaptable cost map  optimal paths  control input space  kinematic forward simulation  generated feasible trajectories  optimal trajectory  time operation  frequency 10.0 Hz  frequency 30.0 Hz  Trajectory  Robots  Planning  Aerospace electronics  Microsoft Windows  Three-dimensional displays  Real-time systems 
Abstract: In this paper, we present a fast, on-line mapping and planning solution for operation in unknown, off-road, environments. We combine obstacle detection along with a terrain gradient map to make simple and adaptable cost map. This map can be created and updated at 10 Hz. An A* planner finds optimal paths over the map. Finally, we take multiple samples over the control input space and do a kinematic forward simulation to generated feasible trajectories. Then the most optimal trajectory, as determined by the cost map and proximity to A* path, is chosen and sent to the controller. Our method allows real time operation at rates of 30 Hz. We demonstrate the efficiency of our method in various off-road terrain at high speed.


Title: An Actor-Critic Approach for Legible Robot Motion Planner
Key Words: human-robot interaction  learning (artificial intelligence)  mobile robots  path planning  recurrent neural nets  actor-critic approach  legible robot motion planner  human-robot collaboration  human partners  mutual learning  legibility evaluator  policy network  deep reinforcement learning  sequence model  Seq2Seq  motion predictor  maps motion  legible reward  human-subject experiments  real-human data  recurrent neural networks based sequence  Task analysis  Robot motion  Robot kinematics  Biological neural networks  Trajectory  Training 
Abstract: In human-robot collaboration, it is crucial for the robot to make its intentions clear and predictable to the human partners. Inspired by the mutual learning and adaptation of human partners, we suggest an actor-critic approach for a legible robot motion planner. This approach includes two neural networks and a legibility evaluator: 1) A policy network based on deep reinforcement learning (DRL); 2) A Recurrent Neural Networks (RNNs) based sequence to sequence (Seq2Seq) model as a motion predictor; 3) A legibility evaluator that maps motion to legible reward. Through a series of human-subject experiments, we demonstrate that with a simple handicraft function and no real-human data, our method lead to improved collaborative performance against a baseline method and a non-prediction method.


Title: Planetary Rover Exploration Combining Remote and In Situ Measurements for Active Spectroscopic Mapping
Key Words: aerospace robotics  learning (artificial intelligence)  mobile robots  path planning  planetary rovers  planetary rover exploration combining remote  active spectroscopic mapping  planetary rover missions  heavy reliance  ground control  real-time information  autonomous mapping  exploration approach  planetary rovers  machine learning model  rover measurements  spectroscopic data  information theory  nonmyopic path  exploration productivity  actual rover  Feature extraction  Extraterrestrial measurements  Robot kinematics  Adaptation models  Productivity  Mars 
Abstract: Maintaining high levels of productivity for planetary rover missions is very difficult due to limited communication and heavy reliance on ground control. There is a need for autonomy that enables more adaptive and efficient actions based on real-time information. This paper presents an autonomous mapping and exploration approach for planetary rovers. We first describe a machine learning model that actively combines remote and rover measurements for mapping. We focus on spectroscopic data because they are commonly used to investigate surface composition. We then incorporate notions from information theory and non-myopic path planning to improve exploration productivity. Finally, we demonstrate the feasibility and successful performance of our approach via spectroscopic investigations of Cuprite, Nevada; a well-studied region of mineralogical and geological interest. We first perform a detailed analysis in simulations, and then validate those results with an actual rover in the field in Nevada.


Title: Concurrent Parameter Identification and Control for Free-Floating Robotic Systems During On-Orbit Servicing
Key Words: aerospace control  aerospace robotics  Jacobian matrices  mobile robots  motion control  parameter estimation  path planning  position control  concurrent parameter identification  free-floating robotic system  on-orbit servicing  uncertain parameters  fast parameter identification method  accurate parameter estimates  system dynamic properties  control scheme compensates  robotic servicer base  parameter information  transposed Jacobian controller  RW angular momentum disturbance rejection  OOS tasks  Task analysis  Parameter estimation  Aerospace electronics  Manipulator dynamics  Adaptive control 
Abstract: To control a free-floating robotic system with uncertain parameters in OOS tasks with high accuracy, a fast parameter identification method, previously developed by the authors, is enhanced further and used concurrently with a controller. The method provides accurate parameter estimates, without any prior knowledge of any system dynamic properties. This control scheme compensates for the accumulated angular momentum on the reaction wheels (RWs), which acts as a disturbance to the robotic servicer base. While any controller using parameter information can be used, a transposed Jacobian controller, modified to include RW angular momentum disturbance rejection, is employed here. Threedimensional simulations demonstrate the method's validity.


Title: Online Trajectory Planning for an Industrial Tractor Towing Multiple Full Trailers
Key Words: agricultural machinery  nonlinear dynamical systems  path planning  trajectory control  vehicle dynamics  vehicle dynamics model  online trajectory planning  car-like tractor  passive full trailers  motion planning  complex nonlinear dynamics  simulation based prediction  industrial tractor-trailers vehicle  obstacle free trajectories  Agricultural machinery  Vehicle dynamics  Planning  Trajectory  Dynamics  Wheels  Lead 
Abstract: This paper presents a novel solution for online trajectory planning of a full-size tractor-trailers vehicle composed of a car-like tractor and arbitrary number of passive full trailers. The motion planning problem for such systems was rarely addressed due to the complex nonlinear dynamics. A simulation-based prediction method is proposed to easily handle the complicated nonlinear dynamics and efficiently generate the obstacle-free and dynamically feasible trajectories. The vehicle dynamics model and a two-layer controller are used in the prediction. Implementation results on the real-world full-size industrial tractor-trailers vehicle are presented to validate the performance of the proposed methods.


Title: Error estimation and correction in a spiking neural network for map formation in neuromorphic hardware
Key Words: error correction  mobile robots  neural chips  neural nets  path planning  pose estimation  SLAM (robots)  error correction  SNN mechanism  neuromorphic device  form-factor neuromorphic chip  spiking neural network  map formation  neuromorphic hardware  neural networks  robot control  error estimation  simultaneous localization and mapping  robot pose estimation  SNN-based SLAM  path integration speed  Neurons  Robots  Sociology  Statistics  Light emitting diodes  Neuromorphics  Synapses 
Abstract: Neuromorphic hardware offers computing platforms for the efficient implementation of spiking neural networks (SNNs) that can be used for robot control. Here, we present such an SNN on a neuromorphic chip that solves a number of tasks related to simultaneous localization and mapping (SLAM): forming a map of an unknown environment and, at the same time, estimating the robot's pose. In particular, we present an SNN mechanism to detect and estimate errors when the robot revisits a known landmark and updates both the map and the path integration speed to reduce the error. The whole system is fully realized in a neuromorphic device, showing the feasibility of a purely SNN-based SLAM, which could be efficiently implemented in a small form-factor neuromorphic chip.


Title: Slip-Based Nonlinear Recursive Backstepping Path Following Controller for Autonomous Ground Vehicles
Key Words: compensation  control nonlinearities  convergence  feedback  feedforward  mobile robots  motion control  nonlinear control systems  observers  path planning  position control  robot dynamics  robot kinematics  robust control  stability  steering systems  variable structure systems  kinematic controller  feedforward slip compensation  variable structure controller  graceful motion  yaw rate commands  backstepping dynamic controller  robust steering commands  output feedback control  autonomous ground vehicles  vehicle steering control  graceful lateral motion  couples yaw-rate based path  steering angle  heading error  slip-based nonlinear recursive backstepping path following controller  observer based sideslip estimates  path following accuracy  error convergence  slip-based kinematic model  dynamic model  path following error  robustness  high gain observer  stability analysis  Kinematics  Vehicle dynamics  Backstepping  Tracking  Dynamics  Tires  Convergence 
Abstract: Path following accuracy and error convergence with graceful motion in vehicle steering control is challenging due to the competing nature of these requirements, especially across a range of operating speeds. This work is founded upon slip-based kinematic and dynamic models, which allow derivation of controllers considering error due to sideslip and the mapping between steering commands and graceful lateral motion. A novel recursive backstepping steering controller is proposed that better couples yaw-rate based path following commands to steering angle and rate. Observer based sideslip estimates are combined with heading error in the kinematic controller to provide feedforward slip compensation. Path following error is compensated by a Variable Structure Controller (VSC) to balance graceful motion, path following error, and robustness. Yaw rate commands are used by a backstepping dynamic controller to generate robust steering commands. A High Gain Observer (HGO) estimates sideslip and yaw rate for output feedback control. Stability analysis is provided and peaking is addressed. Field experimental results evaluate the work and provide comparisons to MPC.


Title: Fast and Safe Path-Following Control using a State-Dependent Directional Metric
Key Words: collision avoidance  control system synthesis  Lyapunov methods  navigation  path planning  stability  safe path-following control  fast navigation  safe autonomous navigation  control policy design  ellipsoidal trajectory  ellipsoidal bounds  control design  local environment geometry  medial obstacles  virtual reference governor system  system safety  Lyapunov-function-based designs  state-dependent directional metric  quadratic state-dependent distance metric  Euclidean-norm design  stability  collision avoidance  Robots  Trajectory  Safety  Measurement  Navigation  Collision avoidance  Aerospace electronics 
Abstract: This paper considers the problem of fast and safe autonomous navigation in partially known environments. Our main contribution is a control policy design based on ellipsoidal trajectory bounds obtained from a quadratic state-dependent distance metric. The ellipsoidal bounds are used to embed directional preference in the control design, leading to system behavior that is adapted to local environment geometry, carefully considering medial obstacles while paying less attention to lateral ones. We use a virtual reference governor system to adaptively follow a desired navigation path, slowing down when system safety may be violated and speeding up otherwise. The resulting controller is able to navigate complex environments faster than common Euclidean-norm and Lyapunov-function-based designs, while retaining stability and collision avoidance guarantees.


Title: Large-Scale Volumetric Scene Reconstruction using LiDAR
Key Words: cameras  image colour analysis  image reconstruction  image representation  optical radar  large-scale 3D scene reconstruction  autonomous driving  volumetric depth fusion  indoor applications  commodity RGB-D cameras  high reconstruction quality  LiDAR sensors  autonomous cars  large-scale mapping  urban area  meshed representation  real world application  large-scale volumetric scene reconstruction  distance 3.7 km  Three-dimensional displays  Laser radar  Image reconstruction  Graphics processing units  Sensor fusion  Weight measurement 
Abstract: Large-scale 3D scene reconstruction is an important task in autonomous driving and other robotics applications as having an accurate representation of the environment is necessary to safely interact with it. Reconstructions are used for numerous tasks ranging from localization and mapping to planning. In robotics, volumetric depth fusion is the method of choice for indoor applications since the emergence of commodity RGB-D cameras due to its robustness and high reconstruction quality. In this work we present an approach for volumetric depth fusion using LiDAR sensors as they are common on most autonomous cars. We present a framework for large-scale mapping of urban areas considering loop closures. Our method creates a meshed representation of an urban area from recordings over a distance of 3.7km with a high level of detail on consumer graphics hardware in several minutes. The whole process is fully automated and does not need any user interference. We quantitatively evaluate our results from a real world application. Also, we investigate the effects of the sensor model that we assume on reconstruction quality by using synthetic data.


Title: Refined Analysis of Asymptotically-Optimal Kinodynamic Planning in the State-Cost Space
Key Words: boundary-value problems  motion control  optimal control  piecewise constant techniques  robot dynamics  trees (mathematics)  asymptotically-optimal kinodynamic planning  state-cost space  AO-RRT  tree-based planner  motion planning  kinodynamic constraints  optimality proof  piecewise-constant control function  two-point boundary-value  Lipschitz-continuity  Trajectory  Planning  Aerospace electronics  Robots  Collision avoidance  Cost function  Space exploration 
Abstract: We present a novel analysis of AO-RRT: a tree-based planner for motion planning with kinodynamic constraints, originally described by Hauser and Zhou (AO-X, 2016). AO-RRT explores the state-cost space and has been shown to efficiently obtain high-quality solutions in practice without relying on the availability of a computationally-intensive two-point boundary-value solver. Our main contribution is an optimality proof for the single-tree version of the algorithm-a variant that was not analyzed before. Our proof only requires a mild and easily-verifiable set of assumptions on the problem and system: Lipschitz-continuity of the cost function and the dynamics. In particular, we prove that for any system satisfying these assumptions, any trajectory having a piecewise-constant control function and positive clearance from the obstacles can be approximated arbitrarily well by a trajectory found by AORRT. We also discuss practical aspects of AORRT and present experimental comparisons of variants of the algorithm.


Title: Robust quadcopter control with artificial vector fields*
Key Words: autonomous aerial vehicles  control system synthesis  helicopters  mobile robots  multi-robot systems  nonlinear control systems  path planning  position control  robust control  time-varying systems  robust quadcopter control  artificial vector fields  path tracking control strategy  control laws  vector field  controlled second order integrator  quadcopter model  input-to-state stable  control inputs  Robots  Vehicle dynamics  Robustness  Convergence  Level set  Mathematical model  Force 
Abstract: This article presents a path tracking control strategy for a quadcopter to follow a time varying curve. The control is based on artificial vector fields. The construction of the field is based on a well known technique in the literature. Next, control laws are developed to impose the behavior of the vector field to a second order integrator model. Finally, control laws are developed to impose the dynamics of the controlled second order integrator to a quadcopter model, which assumes the thrust and the angular rates as input commands. Asymptotic convergence of the whole system is proved by showing that the individual systems in cascade connection are input-to-state stable. We also analyze the influence of norm-bounded disturbances in the control inputs to evaluate the robustness of the controller. We show that bounded disturbances originate limited deviations from the target curve. Simulations and a real robot experiment exemplify and validate the developed theory.


Title: Driving Style Encoder: Situational Reward Adaptation for General-Purpose Planning in Automated Driving
Key Words: learning (artificial intelligence)  path planning  predictive control  road traffic control  situational reward adaptation  general-purpose planning algorithms  automated driving  planning algorithm  driving kinematics  linear reward function  driving situation  deep learning approach  situation-dependent reward functions  sampled driving policies  driving style  planning cycle  Planning  Neural networks  Entropy  Kinematics  Machine learning  Tuning  Training 
Abstract: General-purpose planning algorithms for automated driving combine mission, behavior, and local motion planning. Such planning algorithms map features of the environment and driving kinematics into complex reward functions. To achieve this, planning experts often rely on linear reward functions. The specification and tuning of these reward functions is a tedious process and requires significant experience. Moreover, a manually designed linear reward function does not generalize across different driving situations. In this work, we propose a deep learning approach based on inverse reinforcement learning that generates situation-dependent reward functions. Our neural network provides a mapping between features and actions of sampled driving policies of a model-predictive control-based planner and predicts reward functions for upcoming planning cycles. In our evaluation, we compare the driving style of reward functions predicted by our deep network against clustered and linear reward functions. Our proposed deep learning approach outperforms clustered linear reward functions and is at par with linear reward functions with a-priori knowledge about the situation.


Title: Analysis and Prediction of Pedestrian Crosswalk Behavior during Automated Vehicle Interactions
Key Words: behavioural sciences computing  human-robot interaction  navigation  path planning  pedestrians  road traffic control  road vehicles  traffic engineering computing  virtual reality  automated vehicle interactions  safe navigation  automated vehicles  pedestrian interactions  human-driven vehicles  HDV  hybrid systems model  constant velocity dynamics  long-term pedestrian trajectory prediction  immersive virtual environment  AV interactions  pedestrian crosswalk behavior analysis  pedestrian crosswalk behavior prediction  gap acceptance behavior  AV motion planning  IVE  Predictive models  Trajectory  Legged locomotion  Vehicle dynamics  Virtual environments  Planning  Dynamics 
Abstract: For safe navigation around pedestrians, automated vehicles (AVs) need to plan their motion by accurately predicting pedestrians' trajectories over long time horizons. Current approaches to AV motion planning around crosswalks predict only for short time horizons (1-2 s) and are based on data from pedestrian interactions with human-driven vehicles (HDVs). In this paper, we develop a hybrid systems model that uses pedestrians' gap acceptance behavior and constant velocity dynamics for long-term pedestrian trajectory prediction when interacting with AVs. Results demonstrate the applicability of the model for long-term (> 5 s) pedestrian trajectory prediction at crosswalks. Further, we compared measures of pedestrian crossing behaviors in the immersive virtual environment (when interacting with AVs) to that in the real world (results of published studies of pedestrians interacting with HDVs), and found similarities between the two. These similarities demonstrate the applicability of the hybrid model of AV interactions developed from an immersive virtual environment (IVE) for real-world scenarios for both AVs and HDVs.


Title: Hybrid Localization using Model- and Learning-Based Methods: Fusion of Monte Carlo and E2E Localizations via Importance Sampling
Key Words: convolutional neural nets  importance sampling  learning (artificial intelligence)  mobile robots  Monte Carlo methods  neurocontrollers  particle filtering (numerical methods)  path planning  motion model  importance sampling  convolutional neural network  CNN  Monte Carlo localization  particle filter  hybrid localization method  learning-based method  model-based method  E2E localization  MCL  CNN predictions  posterior distributions  Atmospheric measurements  Particle measurements  Proposals  Predictive models  Fuses  Learning systems  Monte Carlo methods 
Abstract: This paper proposes a hybrid localization method that fuses Monte Carlo localization (MCL) and convolutional neural network (CNN)-based end-to-end (E2E) localization. MCL is based on particle filter and requires proposal distributions to sample the particles. The proposal distribution is generally predicted using a motion model. However, because the motion model cannot handle unanticipated errors, the predicted distribution is sometimes inaccurate. The use of other ideal proposal distributions, such as the measurement model, can improve robustness against such unanticipated errors. This technique is called importance sampling (IS). However, it is difficult to sample the particles from such ideal distributions because they are not represented in the closed form. Recent works have proved that CNNs with dropout layers represent the posterior distributions over their outputs conditioned on the inputs and the CNN predictions are equivalent to sampling the outputs from the posterior. Therefore, the proposed method utilizes a CNN to sample the particles and fuses them with MCL via IS. Consequently, the advantages of both MCL and E2E localization can be simultaneously leveraged while preventing their disadvantages. Experiments demonstrate that the proposed method can smoothly estimate the robot pose, similar to the model-based method, and quickly re-localize it from the failures, similar to the learning-based method.


Title: Towards 5-DoF Control of an Untethered Magnetic Millirobot via MRI Gradient Coils
Key Words: biomedical MRI  medical image processing  medical robotics  microrobots  path planning  surgery  untethered magnetic millirobot  MRI gradient coils  electromagnetic field gradients  magnetic resonance imaging devices  power untethered magnetic robots  MRI devices  magnetic pulling forces  drug delivery  MRI-powered untethered magnetic robots  orientation control  three-dimensional fluids  3-DoF position control  path-planning-based 5-DoF control algorithm  optimal controller  robot manufacturing errors  pitch angle  neutral pitching angle  3D Bezier curves  worst-case path-tracking error  position-tracking error  orientation-tracking error  pitch angles  future MRI-powered active imaging  laser surgery  biopsy robots  Magnetic resonance imaging  Robots  Magnetic devices  Coils  Three-dimensional displays  Force  Medical robotics  miniature robots  magnetic actuation  magnetic resonance imaging  optimal control 
Abstract: Electromagnetic field gradients generated by magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) devices pave the way to power untethered magnetic robots remotely. This innovative use of MRI devices allows exerting magnetic pulling forces on untethered magnetic robots, which could be used for navigation, diagnosis, drug delivery and therapeutic procedures inside a human body. So far, MRI-powered untethered magnetic robots lack simultaneous position and orientation control inside three-dimensional (3D) fluids, and therefore, their control has been limited to 3-DoF position control. In this paper, we present a path-planning-based 5-DoF control algorithm to steer and control an MRI-powered untethered robot's position and orientation simultaneously in 3D workspaces in fluids. Eventhough the simulation results show that the proposed optimal controller can successfully control the robot for 5-DoF, in the experiments, we observe a reduced 5-DoF controllability due to the robot manufacturing errors, which result in pitch angle to remain at around the neutral pitching angle at the steady state. The proposed controller was evaluated to track four different paths (linear, planar-horizontal, planar-vertical and 3D paths) generated by 3D Bezier curves. The worst-case path-tracking error was observed for 3D path-following experiments. For this case, the position-tracking error was 2.7±1.8 mm, and the orientation-tracking error was 13.5± 28.7 and 3.7± 10.2 degrees for yaw and pitch angles, respectively. The overall path is completed within 19.6 seconds with 23.6 mm overall displacement and 61.2 and 41.2 degrees of yaw and pitch angle rotation, respectively. Such robots can be used in future MRI-powered active imaging, laser surgery and biopsy robots inside a fluid-filled stomach type of organs.


Title: SL1M: Sparse L1-norm Minimization for contact planning on uneven terrain
Key Words: integer programming  legged locomotion  linear programming  minimisation  trajectory control  kinematic reachability  contact effectors  quasistatic COM trajectory  quasiflat contacts  contact surfaces  SL1M  uneven terrain  legged locomotion  combinatorial contact selection problem  mixed-integer optimization solvers  sparsity properties  L1 norm minimization techniques  online contact replanning  sparse L1-norm minimization  Silicon  Planning  Foot  Minimization  Kinematics  Legged locomotion 
Abstract: One of the main challenges of planning legged locomotion in complex environments is the combinatorial contact selection problem. Recent contributions propose to use integer variables to represent which contact surface is selected, and then to rely on modern mixed-integer (MI) optimization solvers to handle this combinatorial issue. To reduce the computational cost of MI, we exploit the sparsity properties of L1 norm minimization techniques to relax the contact planning problem into a feasibility linear program. Our approach accounts for kinematic reachability of the center of mass (COM) and of the contact effectors. We ensure the existence of a quasi-static COM trajectory by restricting our plan to quasi-flat contacts. For planning 10 steps with less than 10 potential contact surfaces for each phase, our approach is 50 to 100 times faster that its MI counterpart, which suggests potential applications for online contact re-planning. The method is demonstrated in simulation with the humanoid robots HRP-2 and Talos over various scenarios.


Title: Finding Locomanipulation Plans Quickly in the Locomotion Constrained Manifold
Key Words: end effectors  humanoid robots  legged locomotion  manipulator dynamics  mobile robots  motion control  path planning  robot programming  locomanipulation plans  locomotion constrained manifold  end-effector trajectory  injective locomotion constraint manifold  locomotion scheme  admissible manipulation trajectories  weighted-A* graph search  planner output  contact transitions  path progression trajectory  whole-body kinodynamic locomanipulation plan  locomanipulability region  edge transition feasibility  NASA Valkyrie robot platform  dynamic locomotion approach  example locomanipulation scenarios  divergent-component-of-motion  Trajectory  Task analysis  Foot  Manifolds  Pelvis  Legged locomotion 
Abstract: We present a method that finds locomanipulation plans that perform simultaneous locomotion and manipulation of objects for a desired end-effector trajectory. Key to our approach is to consider an injective locomotion constraint manifold that defines the locomotion scheme of the robot and then using this constraint manifold to search for admissible manipulation trajectories. The problem is formulated as a weighted-A* graph search whose planner output is a sequence of contact transitions and a path progression trajectory to construct the whole-body kinodynamic locomanipulation plan. We also provide a method for computing, visualizing, and learning the locomanipulability region, which is used to efficiently evaluate the edge transition feasibility during the graph search. Numerical simulations are performed with the NASA Valkyrie robot platform that utilizes a dynamic locomotion approach, called the divergent-component-of-motion (DCM), on two example locomanipulation scenarios.


Title: CyPhyHouse: A programming, simulation, and deployment toolchain for heterogeneous distributed coordination
Key Words: control engineering computing  control system synthesis  learning (artificial intelligence)  middleware  mobile computing  mobile robots  multi-threading  path planning  program debugging  specification languages  heterogeneous distributed coordination  libraries  development tools  application development processes  mobile computing  machine learning  CyPhyHouse  debugging  distributed mobile robotic applications  distributed applications  Koord programming language  controller design  distributed network protocols  platform-independent middleware  path planning  multithreaded simulator  Koord applications  application code  heterogeneous agents  heterogeneous mobile platforms  design cycles  robotic testbed  distributed task allocation  deployment toolchain  hardware-agnostic application  Robot kinematics  Task analysis  Middleware  Collision avoidance  Python 
Abstract: Programming languages, libraries, and development tools have transformed the application development processes for mobile computing and machine learning. This paper introduces CyPhyHouse-a toolchain that aims to provide similar programming, debugging, and deployment benefits for distributed mobile robotic applications. Users can develop hardware-agnostic, distributed applications using the high-level, event driven Koord programming language, without requiring expertise in controller design or distributed network protocols. The modular, platform-independent middleware of CyPhyHouse implements these functionalities using standard algorithms for path planning (RRT), control (MPC), mutual exclusion, etc. A high-fidelity, scalable, multi-threaded simulator for Koord applications is developed to simulate the same application code for dozens of heterogeneous agents. The same compiled code can also be deployed on heterogeneous mobile platforms. The effectiveness of CyPhyHouse in improving the design cycles is explicitly illustrated in a robotic testbed through development, simulation, and deployment of a distributed task allocation application on in-house ground and aerial vehicles.


Title: Chance Constrained Simultaneous Path Planning and Task Assignment for Multiple Robots with Stochastic Path Costs
Key Words: distributed algorithms  graph theory  multi-robot systems  path planning  probability  stochastic processes  simultaneous path planning  multiple robots  stochastic path costs  stochastic edge costs  robot team  stochastic travel costs  chance-constrained simultaneous task assignment  deterministic simultaneous task assignment  shortest paths  task locations  linear assignment problem  CC-STAP  Robots  Task analysis  Collision avoidance  Path planning  Resource management  Random variables  Planning 
Abstract: We present a novel algorithm for simultaneous task assignment and path planning on a graph (or roadmap) with stochastic edge costs. In this problem, the initially unassigned robots and tasks are located at known positions in a roadmap. We want to assign a unique task to each robot and compute a path for the robot to go to its assigned task location. Given the mean and variance of travel cost of each edge, our goal is to develop algorithms that, with high probability, the total path cost of the robot team is below a minimum value in any realization of the stochastic travel costs. We formulate the problem as a chance-constrained simultaneous task assignment and path planning problem (CC-STAP). We prove that the optimal solution of CC-STAP can be obtained by solving a sequence of deterministic simultaneous task assignment and path planning problems in which the travel cost is a linear combination of mean and variance of the edge cost. We show that the deterministic problem can be solved in two steps. In the first step, robots compute the shortest paths to the task locations and in the second step, the robots solve a linear assignment problem with the costs obtained in the first step. We also propose a distributed algorithm that solves CC-STAP near-optimally. We present simulation results on randomly generated networks and data to demonstrate that our algorithm is scalable with the number of robots (or tasks) and the size of the network.


Title: Non-Prehensile Manipulation in Clutter with Human-In-The-Loop
Key Words: manipulators  mobile robots  path planning  human-operator guided planning  low-level planner  fully autonomous sampling-based planners  human-in-the-loop  high-level plan  control-based randomized planning  pushing-based manipulation  clutter  nonprehensile manipulation  Robots  Planning  Clutter  Aerospace electronics  1/f noise  Task analysis  Automation 
Abstract: We propose a human-operator guided planning approach to pushing-based manipulation in clutter. Most recent approaches to manipulation in clutter employs randomized planning. The problem, however, remains a challenging one where the planning times are still in the order of tens of seconds or minutes, and the success rates are low for difficult instances of the problem. We build on these control-based randomized planning approaches, but we investigate using them in conjunction with human-operator input. In our framework, the human operator supplies a high-level plan, in the form of an ordered sequence of objects and their approximate goal positions. We present experiments in simulation and on a real robotic setup, where we compare the success rate and planning times of our human-in-the-loop approach with fully autonomous sampling-based planners. We show that with a minimal amount of human input, the low-level planner can solve the problem faster and with higher success rates.


Title: Accurate Vision-based Manipulation through Contact Reasoning
Key Words: control engineering computing  inference mechanisms  manipulators  neural nets  robot vision  state estimation  vision-based manipulation  contact reasoning  contact interactions  motion optimization  state estimation  state representation  neural networks  Shape  Predictive models  Planning  Analytical models  Robots  Computational modeling  Task analysis 
Abstract: Planning contact interactions is one of the core challenges of many robotic tasks. Optimizing contact locations while taking dynamics into account is computationally costly and, in environments that are only partially observable, executing contact-based tasks often suffers from low accuracy. We present an approach that addresses these two challenges for the problem of vision-based manipulation. First, we propose to disentangle contact from motion optimization. Thereby, we improve planning efficiency by focusing computation on promising contact locations. Second, we use a hybrid approach for perception and state estimation that combines neural networks with a physically meaningful state representation. In simulation and real-world experiments on the task of planar pushing, we show that our method is more efficient and achieves a higher manipulation accuracy than previous vision-based approaches.


Title: A Probabilistic Framework for Constrained Manipulations and Task and Motion Planning under Uncertainty
Key Words: geometric programming  manipulators  path planning  stochastic processes  trajectory control  probabilistic framework  constrained manipulations  motion planning  manipulation planning framework  hierarchical structure  logic rules  trajectory optimization  large-scale sequential manipulation  tool-use planning problems  LGP formulation  stochastic domain  posterior path distribution  Gaussian path distribution  logic-geometric programming  Robots  Planning  Trajectory optimization  Skeleton  Programming 
Abstract: Logic-Geometric Programming (LGP) is a powerful motion and manipulation planning framework, which represents hierarchical structure using logic rules that describe discrete aspects of problems, e.g., touch, grasp, hit, or push, and solves the resulting smooth trajectory optimization. The expressive power of logic allows LGP for handling complex, large-scale sequential manipulation and tool-use planning problems. In this paper, we extend the LGP formulation to stochastic domains. Based on the control-inference duality, we interpret LGP in a stochastic domain as fitting a mixture of Gaussians to the posterior path distribution, where each logic pro le defines a single Gaussian path distribution. The proposed framework enables a robot to prioritize various interaction modes and to acquire interesting behaviors such as contact exploitation for uncertainty reduction, eventually providing a composite control scheme that is reactive to disturbance.


Title: Planning with Selective Physics-based Simulation for Manipulation Among Movable Objects
Key Words: computer simulation  manipulators  path planning  planning model  robot manipulator  planning with selective physics based simulation  Planning  Collision avoidance  Manipulators  Physics  Computational modeling  Task analysis 
Abstract: Use of physics-based simulation as a planning model enables a planner to reason and generate plans that involve non-trivial interactions with the world. For example, grasping a milk container out of a cluttered refrigerator may involve moving a robot manipulator in between other objects, pushing away the ones that are moveable and avoiding interactions with certain fragile containers. A physics-based simulator allows a planner to reason about the effects of interactions with these objects and to generate a plan that grasps the milk container successfully. The use of physics-based simulation for planning however is underutilized. One of the reasons for it being that physics-based simulations are typically way too slow for being used within a planning loop that typically requires tens of thousands of actions to be evaluated within a matter of a second or two. In this work, we develop a planning algorithm that tries to address this challenge. In particular, it builds on the observation that only a small number of actions actually need to be simulated using physics, and the remaining set of actions, such as moving an arm around obstacles, can be evaluated using a much simpler internal planning model, e.g., a simple collision-checking model. Motivated by this, we develop an algorithm called Planning with Selective Physics-based Simulation that automatically discovers what should be simulated with physics and what can utilize an internal planning model for pick-and-place tasks.


Title: Hybrid Differential Dynamic Programming for Planar Manipulation Primitives
Key Words: closed loop systems  dynamic programming  linear systems  manipulators  stability  switching systems (control)  trajectory control  hybrid trajectories  planar manipulation primitives  hybrid differential dynamic programming  closed-loop execution  frictional contact switches  hybrid DDP  finite horizon trajectories  linear stabilizing controllers  planar pivoting  hybrid switches  pose-to-pose closed-loop trajectories  planar pushing  Trajectory  Planning  Contacts  Heuristic algorithms  Force  Convergence  Friction 
Abstract: We present a hybrid differential dynamic programming (DDP) algorithm for closed-loop execution of manipulation primitives with frictional contact switches. Planning and control of these primitives is challenging as they are hybrid, under-actuated, and stochastic. We address this by developing hybrid DDP both to plan finite horizon trajectories with a few contact switches and to create linear stabilizing controllers. We evaluate the performance and computational cost of our framework in ablations studies for two primitives: planar pushing and planar pivoting. We find that generating pose-to-pose closed-loop trajectories from most configurations requires only a couple (one to two) hybrid switches and can be done in reasonable time (one to five seconds). We further demonstrate that our controller stabilizes these hybrid trajectories on a real pushing system. A video describing our work can be found at https://youtu.be/YGSe4cUfq6Q.


Title: A Soft Gripper with Retractable Nails for Advanced Grasping and Manipulation
Key Words: dexterous manipulators  grippers  manipulator dynamics  path planning  pneumatic actuators  manipulation tasks  normal grasping forces  delicate pinch grasps  robotic grasping tasks  soft gripper  advanced grasping  retractable finger nails  reconfigurable palm  finger nail mechanism  Nails  Grippers  Grasping  Three-dimensional displays  Actuators  Payloads  Fingers 
Abstract: This study describes the enhancement of a vacuum actuated soft gripper's grasping capabilities using retractable finger nails and an active re-configurable palm. The finger nail mechanism is pneumatically actuated and enables the gripper to perform complex grasping and manipulation tasks with high repeatability. The retracted nails can exert normal grasping forces of up to 1.8N and enable grasping of objects up to 200μm thick from flat surfaces, while allowing the gripper to execute delicate pinch grasps without complex trajectory or grasp planning. A wide array of robotic grasping tasks that were not possible without nails are also described.


Title: Towards Proactive Navigation: A Pedestrian-Vehicle Cooperation Based Behavioral Model
Key Words: collision avoidance  mobile robots  motion control  path planning  remotely operated vehicles  road traffic control  road vehicles  trajectory control  pedestrian-vehicle cooperation  autonomous vehicle  intelligent transportation  autonomous navigation research  safe proactive navigation  pedestrian-vehicle interaction behavioral model  interaction scenario  quantitative time-varying function  cooperation estimation  cooperation-based trajectory planning model  Navigation  Space vehicles  Predictive models  Strain  Task analysis  Trajectory  Autonomous vehicles 
Abstract: Developing autonomous vehicles capable of navigating safely and socially around pedestrians is a major challenge in intelligent transportation. This challenge cannot be met without understanding pedestrians' behavioral response to an autonomous vehicle, and the task of building a clear and quantitative description of the pedestrian to vehicle interaction remains a key milestone in autonomous navigation research. As a step towards safe proactive navigation in a space shared with pedestrians, this work introduces a pedestrian-vehicle interaction behavioral model. The model estimates the pedestrian's cooperation with the vehicle in an interaction scenario by a quantitative time-varying function. Using this cooperation estimation the pedestrian's trajectory is predicted by a cooperation-based trajectory planning model. Both parts of the model are tested and validated using real-life recorded scenarios of pedestrian-vehicle interaction. The model is capable of describing and predicting agents' behaviors when interacting with a vehicle in both lateral and frontal crossing scenarios.


Title: Robot Plan Model Generation and Execution with Natural Language Interface*
Key Words: human computer interaction  mobile robots  natural language interfaces  path planning  human instructions  service environments  robot plan model generation  natural language interface  interaction inconvenient  verbal interaction-based method  human involvement  human user  unclear instructions  reactive plan model  Task analysis  Service robots  Natural languages  Human-robot interaction  Robot sensing systems  Planning 
Abstract: Verbal interaction between a human and a robot may play a key role in conveying suitable directions for a robot to achieve the goal of a user's request. However, a robot may need to correct task plans or make new decisions with human help, which would make the interaction inconvenient and also increase the interaction time. In this paper, we propose a new verbal interaction-based method that can generate plan models and execute proper actions without human involvement in the middle of performing a task by a robot. To understand the verbal behaviors of humans when giving instructions to a robot, we first conducted a brief user study and found that a human user does not explicitly express the required task. To handle such unclear instructions by a human, we propose two different algorithms that can generate a component of new plan models based on intents and entities parsed from natural language and can resolve the unclear entities existed in human instructions. An experimental scenario with a robot, Cozmo, was tried in the lab environment to test whether or not the proposed method could generate an appropriate plan model. As a result, we found that the robot could successfully accomplish the task following human instructions and also found that the number of interactions and components in the plan model could be reduced as opposed to the general reactive plan model. In the future, we are going to improve the automated process of generating plan models and apply various scenarios under different service environments and robots.


Title: Mapless Navigation among Dynamics with Social-safety-awareness: a reinforcement learning approach from 2D laser scans
Key Words: collision avoidance  control engineering computing  learning (artificial intelligence)  mobile robots  navigation  path planning  robot dynamics  robot programming  time-efficient path planning behavior  dynamic crowds  social-safety-awareness  reinforcement learning  2D laser scans  mapless collision-avoidance navigation  ego-safety  pedestrians  robot tests  Collision avoidance  Navigation  Training  Robot sensing systems  Lasers  Path planning 
Abstract: We consider the problem of mapless collision-avoidance navigation where humans are present using 2D laser scans. Our proposed method uses ego-safety to measure collision from the robot's perspective and social-safety to measure the impact of robot's actions on surrounding pedestrians. Specifically, the social-safety part predicts the intrusion impact of the robot's action into the interaction area with surrounding humans. We train the policy using reinforcement learning on a simple simulator and directly evaluate the learned policy in Gazebo and real robot tests. Experiments show the learned policy smoothly transferred to different scenarios without any fine tuning. We observe that our method demonstrates time-efficient path planning behavior with high success rate in the mapless navigation task. Furthermore, we test our method in a navigation task among dynamic crowds, considering both low and high volume traffic. Our learned policy demonstrates cooperative behavior that actively drives our robot into traffic flows while showing respect to nearby pedestrians. Evaluation videos are at https://sites.google.com/view/ssw-batman.


Title: Trajectory Planning with Safety Guaranty for a Multirotor based on the Forward and Backward Reachability Analysis
Key Words: aircraft control  collision avoidance  helicopters  reachability analysis  robust control  set theory  trajectory control  obstacle avoidance  risk free flight  backward reachable sets  forward reachable sets  robust trajectory planning algorithm  safety guarantee  multirotor  Hamilton-Jacobi reachability analysis  Trajectory  Planning  Safety  Reachability analysis  Robustness  Optimization  Aerospace engineering 
Abstract: Planning a trajectory with guaranteed safety is a core part for a risk-free flight of a multirotor. If a trajectory planner only aims to ensure safety, it may generate trajectories which overly bypass risky regions and prevent the system from achieving specific missions. This work presents a robust trajectory planning algorithm which simultaneously guarantees the safety and reachability to the target state in the presence of unknown disturbances. We first characterize how the forward and backward reachable sets (FRSs and BRSs) are constructed by using Hamilton-Jacobi reachability analysis. Based on the analysis, we present analytic expressions for the reachable sets and then propose minimal ellipsoids which closely approximate the reachable sets. In the planning process, we optimize the reference trajectory to connect the FRSs and BRSs, while avoiding obstacles. By combining the FRSs and BRSs, we can guarantee that any state inside of the initial set reaches the target set. We validate the proposed algorithm through a simulation of traversing a narrow gap.


Title: A Hamilton-Jacobi Reachability-Based Framework for Predicting and Analyzing Human Motion for Safe Planning
Key Words: Bayes methods  belief networks  continuous time systems  motion control  path planning  predictive control  probability  reachability analysis  robots  stochastic processes  probabilistic predictive models  human behavior  future motion  observation models  state predictions  robot motion plan  human behavioral data  human motion prediction  Hamilton-Jacobi reachability problem  continuous-time dynamical system  model parameters  worst-case forward reachable set  future state distributions  robust planning  Hamilton-Jacobi reachability-based framework  human motion analysis  safe planning  real-world autonomous systems  Predictive models  Robots  Stochastic processes  Planning  Data models  Computational modeling  Robustness 
Abstract: Real-world autonomous systems often employ probabilistic predictive models of human behavior during planning to reason about their future motion. Since accurately modeling human behavior a priori is challenging, such models are often parameterized, enabling the robot to adapt predictions based on observations by maintaining a distribution over the model parameters. Although this enables data and priors to improve the human model, observation models are difficult to specify and priors may be incorrect, leading to erroneous state predictions that can degrade the safety of the robot motion plan. In this work, we seek to design a predictor which is more robust to misspecified models and priors, but can still leverage human behavioral data online to reduce conservatism in a safe way. To do this, we cast human motion prediction as a Hamilton-Jacobi reachability problem in the joint state space of the human and the belief over the model parameters. We construct a new continuous-time dynamical system, where the inputs are the observations of human behavior, and the dynamics include how the belief over the model parameters change. The results of this reachability computation enable us to both analyze the effect of incorrect priors on future predictions in continuous state and time, as well as to make predictions of the human state in the future. We compare our approach to the worst-case forward reachable set and a stochastic predictor which uses Bayesian inference and produces full future state distributions. Our comparisons in simulation and in hardware demonstrate how our framework can enable robust planning while not being overly conservative, even when the human model is inaccurate. Videos of our experiments can be found at the project website1.


Title: A Fast, Accurate, and Scalable Probabilistic Sample-Based Approach for Counting Swarm Size
Key Words: control engineering computing  distributed algorithms  multi-robot systems  particle swarm optimisation  path planning  counting swarm  distributed algorithm  neighboring robots  robot swarm  Robots  Estimation  Shape  Task analysis  Heuristic algorithms  Random variables  Clocks 
Abstract: This paper describes a distributed algorithm for computing the number of robots in a swarm, only requiring communication with neighboring robots. The algorithm can adjust the estimated count when the number of robots in the swarm changes, such as the addition or removal of robots. Probabilistic guarantees are given, which show the accuracy of this method, and the trade-off between accuracy, speed, and adaptability to changing numbers. The proposed approach is demonstrated in simulation as well as a real swarm of robots.


Title: The Tiercel: A novel autonomous micro aerial vehicle that can map the environment by flying into obstacles
Key Words: cameras  collision avoidance  image sensors  mobile robots  navigation  robot vision  SLAM (robots)  space vehicles  autonomous microaerial vehicle  autonomous Tiercel robots  collision detector design  fisheye camera  reflective obstacles  transparent obstacles  collision-resilient robot  Tiercel MAV  autonomous navigation  autonomous flight  Collision avoidance  Cameras  Robot vision systems  Planning 
Abstract: Autonomous flight through unknown environments in the presence of obstacles is a challenging problem for micro aerial vehicles (MAVs). A majority of the current state-of-art research assumes obstacles as opaque objects that can be easily sensed by optical sensors such as cameras or LiDARs. However in indoor environments with glass walls and windows, or scenarios with smoke and dust, robots (even birds) have a difficult time navigating through the unknown space.In this paper, we present the design of a new class of micro aerial vehicles that achieves autonomous navigation and are robust to collisions. In particular, we present the Tiercel MAV: a small, agile, light weight and collision-resilient robot powered by a cellphone grade CPU. Our design exploits contact to infer the presence of transparent or reflective obstacles like glass walls, integrating touch with visual perception for SLAM. The Tiercel is able to localize using visual-inertial odometry (VIO) running on board the robot with a single downward facing fisheye camera and an IMU. We show how our collision detector design and experimental set up enable us to characterize the impact of collisions on VIO. We further develop a planning strategy to enable the Tiercel to fly autonomously in an unknown space, sustaining collisions and creating a 2D map of the environment. Finally we demonstrate a swarm of three autonomous Tiercel robots safely navigating and colliding through an obstacle field to reach their objectives.


Title: A Dynamical System Approach for Adaptive Grasping, Navigation and Co-Manipulation with Humanoid Robots
Key Words: compliance control  dexterous manipulators  humanoid robots  position control  dynamical system approach  adaptive grasping  humanoid robots  iCub humanoid robot  state-dependent dynamical systems  robots hands  intermediate virtual object  motion generators  object moves  whole-body compliant control strategy  manipulation tasks  body manipulation  iCub robots walk-to-grasp objects  Robot kinematics  Legged locomotion  Grasping  Task analysis  Humanoid robots  Planning 
Abstract: We present an integrated approach that provides compliant control of an iCub humanoid robot and adaptive reaching, grasping, navigating and co-manipulating capabilities. We use state-dependent dynamical systems (DS) to (i) coordinate and drive the robots hands (in both position and orientation) to grasp an object using an intermediate virtual object, and (ii) drive the robot's base while walking/navigating. The use of DS as motion generators allows us to adapt smoothly as the object moves and to re-plan on-line motion of the arms and body to reach the object's new location. The desired motion generated by the DS are used in combination with a whole-body compliant control strategy that absorbs perturbations while walking and offers compliant behaviors for grasping and manipulation tasks. Further, the desired dynamics for the arm and body can be learned from demonstrations. By integrating these components, we achieve unprecedented adaptive behaviors for whole body manipulation. We showcase this in simulations and real-world experiments where iCub robots (i) walk-to-grasp objects, (ii) follow a human (or another iCub) through interaction and (iii) learn to navigate or comanipulate an object from human guided demonstrations; whilst being robust to changing targets and perturbations.


Title: Multi-Agent Task Allocation using Cross-Entropy Temporal Logic Optimization
Key Words: discrete systems  entropy  graph theory  multi-agent systems  multi-robot systems  optimisation  search problems  stochastic programming  temporal logic  task specification  discrete transition systems  finite linear temporal logic specifications  stochastic optimization  graph based search  cross entropy temporal logic optimization  multiagent task allocation cross entropy algorithm  robot team  Task analysis  Automata  Cost function  Planning  Resource management  Switches 
Abstract: In this paper, we propose a graph-based search method to optimally allocate tasks to a team of robots given a global task specification. In particular, we define these agents as discrete transition systems. In order to allocate tasks to the team of robots, we decompose finite linear temporal logic (LTL) specifications and consider agent specific cost functions. We propose to use the stochastic optimization technique, cross entropy, to optimize over this cost function. The multi-agent task allocation cross-entropy (MTAC-E) algorithm is developed to determine both when it is optimal to switch to a new agent to complete a task and minimize the costs associated with individual agent trajectories. The proposed algorithm is verified in simulation and experimental results are included.


Title: Motion Planning with Competency-Aware Transition Models for Underactuated Adaptive Hands
Key Words: dexterous manipulators  optimal control  path planning  competency-aware transition models  underactuated adaptive hands  in-hand manipulation  data-driven models  asymptotically optimal motion planner  motion planning  grasping tasks  dexterity  Data models  Planning  Predictive models  Adaptation models  Trajectory  Training  Uncertainty 
Abstract: Underactuated adaptive hands simplify grasping tasks but it is difficult to model their interactions with objects during in-hand manipulation. Learned data-driven models have been recently shown to be efficient in motion planning and control of such hands. Still, the accuracy of the models is limited even with the addition of more data. This becomes important for long horizon predictions, where errors are accumulated along the length of a path. Instead of throwing more data into learning the transition model, this work proposes to rather invest a portion of the training data in a critic model. The critic is trained to estimate the error of the transition model given a state and a sequence of future actions, along with information of past actions. The critic is used to reformulate the cost function of an asymptotically optimal motion planner. Given the critic, the planner directs planned paths to less erroneous regions in the state space. The approach is evaluated against standard motion planning on simulated and real hands. The results show that it outperforms an alternative where all the available data is used for training the transition model without a critic.


Title: Human-like Planning for Reaching in Cluttered Environments
Key Words: collision avoidance  decision making  dexterous manipulators  grippers  learning (artificial intelligence)  planning (artificial intelligence)  robot programming  robot vision  trajectory control  virtual reality  decision making  decision classifiers  cluttered environments  robot planners  random sampling  object manipulation plans  virtual reality  trajectory optimisation  physics based robot simulation  human-like planning  depth camera  Robotiq two finger gripper  Task analysis  Planning  Robots  Testing  Feature extraction  Trajectory  Standards 
Abstract: Humans, in comparison to robots, are remarkably adept at reaching for objects in cluttered environments. The best existing robot planners are based on random sampling of configuration space- which becomes excessively high-dimensional with large number of objects. Consequently, most planners often fail to efficiently find object manipulation plans in such environments. We addressed this problem by identifying high-level manipulation plans in humans, and transferring these skills to robot planners. We used virtual reality to capture human participants reaching for a target object on a tabletop cluttered with obstacles. From this, we devised a qualitative representation of the task space to abstract the decision making, irrespective of the number of obstacles. Based on this representation, human demonstrations were segmented and used to train decision classifiers. Using these classifiers, our planner produced a list of waypoints in task space. These waypoints provided a high-level plan, which could be transferred to an arbitrary robot model and used to initialise a local trajectory optimiser. We evaluated this approach through testing on unseen human VR data, a physics-based robot simulation, and a real robot (dataset and code are publicly available1). We found that the human-like planner outperformed a state-of-the-art standard trajectory optimisation algorithm, and was able to generate effective strategies for rapid planning- irrespective of the number of obstacles in the environment.


Title: Where to relocate?: Object rearrangement inside cluttered and confined environments for robotic manipulation
Key Words: collision avoidance  computational complexity  graph theory  industrial robots  manipulators  mobile robots  optimisation  robot vision  warehousing  object rearrangement  cluttered confined environments  robotic manipulation  cluttered confined space  motion planning  manipulator  nonmonotone arrangement problems  pick-and-place actions  baseline methods  Planning  Manipulators  Collision avoidance  Task analysis  Clutter  Kinematics 
Abstract: We present an algorithm determining where to relocate objects inside a cluttered and confined space while rearranging objects to retrieve a target object. Although methods that decide what to remove have been proposed, planning for the placement of removed objects inside a workspace has not received much attention. Rather, removed objects are often placed outside the workspace, which incurs additional laborious work (e.g., motion planning and execution of the manipulator and the mobile base, perception of other areas). Some other methods manipulate objects only inside the workspace but without a principle so the rearrangement becomes inefficient. In this work, we consider both monotone (each object is moved only once) and non-monotone arrangement problems which have shown to be NP-hard. Once the sequence of objects to be relocated is given by any existing algorithm, our method aims to minimize the number of pick-and-place actions to place the objects until the target becomes accessible. From extensive experiments, we show that our method reduces the number of pick-and-place actions and the total execution time (the reduction is up to 23.1% and 28.1% respectively) compared to baseline methods while achieving higher success rates.


Title: Autonomous Modification of Unstructured Environments with Found Material
Key Words: building materials  dexterous manipulators  friction  grippers  industrial manipulators  materials handling equipment  mechanical contact  path planning  sensors  unseen objects  adaptive ramp building algorithms  irregularly shaped stones  contact geometry  friction  high-level algorithm  physics-based planner  pickup  robotic system  complex grasp planning  autonomous modification  manipulation  found material  pickup  motion support structures  specialized construction algorithm  unstructured environments  Uncertainty  Robot sensing systems  Physics  Shape  Buildings  physics simulation  autonomous construction  robotics  irregular building materials. 
Abstract: The ability to autonomously modify their environment dramatically increases the capability of robots to operate in unstructured environments. We develop a specialized construction algorithm and robotic system that can autonomously build motion support structures with previously unseen objects. The approach is based on our prior work on adaptive ramp building algorithms, but it eliminates the assumption of having specialized building materials that simplify manipulation and planning for stability. Utilizing irregularly shaped stones makes the problem significantly more challenging since the outcome of individual placements is sensitive to details of contact geometry and friction, which are difficult to observe. To reuse the same high-level algorithm, we develop a new physics-based planner that explicitly considers the uncertainty produced by incomplete in-situ sensing and imprecision during pickup and placement. We demonstrate the approach on a robotic system that uses a newly developed gripper to reliably pick up stones with minimal additional sensors or complex grasp planning. The resulting system can build structures with more than 70 stones, which in turn provide traversable paths to previously inaccessible locations.


Title: 6DFC: Efficiently Planning Soft Non-Planar Area Contact Grasps using 6D Friction Cones
Key Words: friction  grippers  manipulator dynamics  path planning  quadratic programming  robot vision  6D friction cone  approximate compliant contacts  soft point contact models  area contact model  6D friction limit surface  6DFC algorithm  soft nonplanar area contact grasp planning  3D friction cones  ABB YuMi robot  quadratic program  Friction  Grippers  Three-dimensional displays  Force  Solid modeling  Computational modeling  Ellipsoids 
Abstract: Analytic grasp planning algorithms typically approximate compliant contacts with soft point contact models to compute grasp quality, but these models are overly conservative and do not capture the full range of grasps available. While area contact models can reduce the number of false negatives predicted by point contact models, they have been restricted to a 3D analysis of the wrench applied at the contact and so are still overly conservative. We extend traditional 3D friction cones and present an efficient algorithm for calculating the 6D friction cone (6DFC) for a non-planar area contact between a compliant gripper and a rigid object. We introduce a novel sampling algorithm to find the 6D friction limit surface for a non-planar area contact and a linearization method for these ellipsoids that reduces the computation of 6DFC constraints to a quadratic program. We show that constraining the wrench applied at the contact in this way increases recall, a metric inversely related to the number of false negative predictions, by 17% and precision, a metric inversely related to the number of false positive predictions, by 2% over soft point contact models on results from 1500 physical grasps on 12 3D printed nonplanar objects with an ABB YuMi robot. The 6DFC algorithm also achieves 6% higher recall with similar precision and 85x faster runtime than a previously proposed area contact model.


Title: Versatile Trajectory Optimization Using a LCP Wheel Model for Dynamic Vehicle Maneuvers
Key Words: automobiles  friction  mechanical contact  mobile robots  optimisation  path planning  robot dynamics  trajectory control  tyres  vehicle dynamics  wheels  dynamic drift parking  discontinuous friction model  tire dynamics model  cost function  wheel skidding  versatile trajectory optimization framework  vehicle motion  anisotropic Coulomb friction cone  multirigid-body contact problems  linear complementarity problem  robotics community  contact dynamics  real world contact behavior  empirical friction model  aggressive maneuvers  car models  dynamic vehicle maneuvers  LCP wheel model  executing dynamic drift parking  planning horizon  Vehicle dynamics  Wheels  Friction  Planning  Dynamics  Trajectory optimization  Tires 
Abstract: Car models have been extensively studied at varying levels of abstraction, and planning and executing motions under ideal conditions is well researched and understood. For more aggressive maneuvers, for example when drifting or skidding, empirical and/or discontinuous friction models have been used to explain and approximate real world contact behavior. Separately, contact dynamics have been extensively studied by the robotics community, often times formulated as a linear complementarity problem (LCP) for dynamic multi-rigid-body contact problems with Coulomb friction cone approximations. In this work, we explore the validity of using such an anisotropic Coulomb friction cone to model tire dynamics to plan for vehicle motion, and present a versatile trajectory optimization framework using this model that can both avoid and/or exploit wheel skidding, depending on the cost function and planning horizon. Experimental evidence of planning and executing dynamic drift parking is shown on a 1/16 scale model car.


Title: Motion Design for a Snake Robot Negotiating Complicated Pipe Structures of a Constant Diameter
Key Words: collision avoidance  mobile robots  motion control  path planning  pipes  motion design  snake robot  constant diameter  multiple pipe structures  target form  rolling motion  complicated pipe structures  Snake robots  Windings  Shape  Robots  Junctions  Modeling  Pins 
Abstract: A method for designing the motion of a snake robot negotiating complicated pipe structures having a constant diameter is presented. For such robots moving inside pipes, there are various "obstacles" such as junctions, bends, shears, and blockages. To surmount these obstacles, we propose a method that enables the robot to adapt to multiple pipe structures of a constant diameter. We designed the target form of the snake robot of two helices connected with an arbitrary shape. This method is applicable to various obstacles by designing a part of the target form conforming to the obstacle. The robot negotiates obstacles under shift control by employing a rolling motion. We demonstrated the effectiveness of the proposed method in various experiments.


Title: Development of a Robotic System for Automated Decaking of 3D-Printed Parts
Key Words: force control  industrial robots  learning (artificial intelligence)  neural nets  path planning  production engineering computing  three-dimensional printing  industrial robots  robotic decaking  automated decaking  3D printed parts  3D printing based mass manufacturing  smart mechanical design  motion planning  force control  deep learning  Powders  Cleaning  Service robots  Three-dimensional displays  Task analysis  Force control  deep learning  manipulation  system design  3D-printing  decaking 
Abstract: With the rapid rise of 3D-printing as a competitive mass manufacturing method, manual "decaking" - i.e. removing the residual powder that sticks to a 3D-printed part - has become a significant bottleneck. Here, we introduce, for the first time to our knowledge, a robotic system for automated decaking of 3D-printed parts. Combining Deep Learning for 3D perception, smart mechanical design, motion planning, and force control for industrial robots, we developed a system that can automatically decake parts in a fast and efficient way. Through a series of decaking experiments performed on parts printed by a Multi Jet Fusion printer, we demonstrated the feasibility of robotic decaking for 3D-printing-based mass manufacturing.


Title: Recognition and Reconfiguration of Lattice-Based Cellular Structures by Simple Robots
Key Words: mobile robots  path planning  robot vision  flexibility  cellular components  robust robots  cellular building materials  arbitrary cellular structures  cellular materials  lattice-based cellular structures  Tiles  Robot sensing systems  Lattices  Shape  Autonomous robots 
Abstract: We consider recognition and reconfiguration of lattice-based cellular structures by very simple robots with only basic functionality. The underlying motivation is the construction and modification of space facilities of enormous dimensions, where the combination of new materials with extremely simple robots promises structures of previously unthinkable size and flexibility; this is also closely related to the newly emerging field of programmable matter. Aiming for large-scale scalability, both in terms of the number of the cellular components of a structure, as well as the number of robots that are being deployed for construction requires simple yet robust robots and mechanisms, while also dealing with various basic constraints, such as connectivity of a structure during reconfiguration. To this end, we propose an approach that combines ultra-light, cellular building materials with extremely simple robots. We develop basic algorithmic methods that are able to detect and reconfigure arbitrary cellular structures, based on robots that have only constant-sized memory. As a proof of concept, we demonstrate the feasibility of this approach for specific cellular materials and robots that have been developed at NASA.


Title: A Fast Configuration Space Algorithm for Variable Topology Truss Modular Robots
Key Words: collision avoidance  mobile robots  path planning  topology  fast configuration space algorithm  VTT  self-reconfigurable robot  truss shape  motion planning  shape changing actions  topology reconfiguration  geometry reconfiguration actions  cell decomposition approach  collision-free space  simple shape-morphing method  variable topology truss modular robot  Topology  Robots  Planning  Geometry  Shape  Kinematics  Actuators 
Abstract: The Variable Topology Truss (VTT) is a new class of self-reconfigurable robot that can reconfigure its truss shape and topology depending on the task or environment requirements. Motion planning and avoiding self-collision are difficult as these systems usually have dozens of degrees-of-freedom with complex intersecting parallel actuation. There are two different types of shape changing actions for a VTT: geometry reconfiguration and topology reconfiguration. This paper focuses on the geometry reconfiguration actions. A new cell decomposition approach is presented based on a fast and complete method to compute the collision-free space of a node in a truss. A simple shape-morphing method is shown to quickly create motion paths for reconfiguration by moving one node at a time.


Title: ModQuad-DoF: A Novel Yaw Actuation for Modular Quadrotors
Key Words: actuators  aerospace robotics  attitude control  autonomous aerial vehicles  drag  helicopters  mobile robots  motion control  path planning  position control  vehicle dynamics  ModQuad-DoF  modular quadrotors  robotic structure  enhanced capabilities  module design  freedom relative motion  flying robot  cage  docking mechanism  structure control authority  structure yaw control  yaw actuation method 
Abstract: In this work we introduce ModQuad-DoF, a modular flying robotic structure with enhanced capabilities for yaw actuation. We propose a new module design that allows a one degree of freedom relative motion between the flying robot and the cage, with a docking mechanism allowing rigid connections between cages. A novel method of yaw actuation that increases the structure control authority is also presented. Our new method for the structure yaw control relies on the independent roll angles of each one of the modules, instead of the traditional drag moments from the propellers. In this paper, we propose a controller that allows the ModQuad-DoF to control its position and attitude. In our experiments, we tested a different number of modules flying in cooperation and validated the novel yaw actuation method.


Title: An Actuation Fault Tolerance Approach to Reconfiguration Planning of Modular Self-folding Robots
Key Words: actuators  fault tolerance  motion control  robots  fault tolerant reconfiguration  self-folding robots  modular system  complete actuation failure  active modules  imprecise robotic motion  reconfiguration failure  intra-module connection  reconfiguration schemes  user-specified fault tolerant capability  arbitrary input initial pattern  robotic platform  modular origami robot  fault tolerant initial patterns  actuation fault tolerance approach  reconfiguration planning  modular self-folding  Fault tolerance  Fault tolerant systems  Robots  Three-dimensional displays  Circuit faults  Shape  Planning 
Abstract: This paper presents a novel approach to fault tolerant reconfiguration of modular self-folding robots. Among various types of faults that probably occur in the modular system, we focus on the tolerance of complete actuation failure of active modules that might cause imprecise robotic motion and even reconfiguration failure. Our approach is to utilize the reconfigurability of modular self-folding robots and investigate intra-module connection to determine initial patterns that are inherently fault tolerant. We exploit the redundancy of actuation and distribute active modules in both layout-based and target-based scenarios, such that reconfiguration schemes with user-specified fault tolerant capability can be generated for an arbitrary input initial pattern or 3D configuration. Our methods are demonstrated in computer-aided simulation on the robotic platform of Mori, a modular origami robot. The simulation results validate that the proposed algorithms yield fault tolerant initial patterns and distribution schemes of active modules for several 2D and 3D configurations with Mori, while retaining generalizability for a large number of modular self-folding robots.


Title: A Flexible Method for Performance Evaluation of Robot Localization
Key Words: image motion analysis  mobile robots  path planning  pose estimation  robot vision  SLAM (robots)  robot localization  research issue  mobile robotics  performance assessment  robot SLAM algorithms  localization accuracy  SLAM algorithm  benchmark datasets  motion capture  environment-specific  spatial coverage  SLAM performance evaluation  distinctive markers  robot navigation environment  generative latent optimization problem  local robot-to-marker  global robot  Simultaneous localization and mapping  Navigation  Cameras  Performance evaluation  Robot localization 
Abstract: An important research issue in mobile robotics is performance assessment of robot SLAM algorithms in terms of their localization accuracy. Typically, SLAM algorithms are evaluated with the help of benchmark datasets or expensive equipment such as motion capture. Benchmark datasets however, are environment-specific, and use of motion capture constrains spatial coverage and affordability. In this paper, we present a novel method for SLAM performance evaluation, which only uses distinctive markers (such as AR tags), randomly placed in the robot navigation environment at arbitrary locations, and observes these markers with a camera onboard of the robot. Formulated as a generative latent optimization (GLO) problem, our method uses the local robot-to-marker poses to evaluate the global robot pose estimates by a SLAM algorithm and therefore its performance. Through extensive experiments on two robots, three localization/SLAM algorithms and both LiDAR and RGB-D sensors, we demonstrate the feasibility and accuracy of our proposed method.


Title: Quantifying Good Seamanship For Autonomous Surface Vessel Performance Evaluation
Key Words: collision avoidance  decision making  marine safety  marine vehicles  mobile robots  remotely operated vehicles  ships  performance metrics  ASV decision-making  collision risk  ASV planning strategies  International Regulations for Prevention of Collisions at Sea  quantified good seamanship  COLREGS compliance  vessel interactions  autonomous surface vehicle decision-making  autonomous surface vessel performance evaluation  seamanship performance criteria  Marine vehicles  Safety  Geometry  Decision making  Navigation  Risk management  Planning 
Abstract: The current state-of-the-art for testing and evaluation of autonomous surface vehicle (ASV) decision-making is currently limited to one-versus-one vessel interactions by determining compliance with the International Regulations for Prevention of Collisions at Sea, referred to as COLREGS. Strict measurement of COLREGS compliance, however, loses value in multi-vessel encounters, as there can be conflicting rules which make determining compliance extremely subjective. This work proposes several performance metrics to evaluate ASV decision-making based on the concept of "good seamanship," a practice which generalizes to multi-vessel encounters. Methodology for quantifying good seamanship is presented based on the criteria of reducing the overall collision risk of the situation and taking early, appropriate actions. Case study simulation results are presented to showcase the seamanship performance criteria against different ASV planning strategies.


Title: Action-conditioned Benchmarking of Robotic Video Prediction Models: a Comparative Study
Key Words: Bayes methods  image sequences  mobile robots  path planning  robot vision  video coding  video signal processing  action-conditioned benchmarking  robotic video prediction models  intelligent systems  video prediction systems  robot actions  video prediction models  frame quality  robot performs  action inference system  robot planning systems  Predictive models  Measurement  Visualization  Stochastic processes  Planning  Robot sensing systems 
Abstract: A defining characteristic of intelligent systems is the ability to make action decisions based on the anticipated outcomes. Video prediction systems have been demonstrated as a solution for predicting how the future will unfold visually, and thus, many models have been proposed that are capable of predicting future frames based on a history of observed frames (and sometimes robot actions). However, a comprehensive method for determining the fitness of different video prediction models at guiding the selection of actions is yet to be developed.Current metrics assess video prediction models based on human perception of frame quality. In contrast, we argue that if these systems are to be used to guide action, necessarily, the actions the robot performs should be encoded in the predicted frames. In this paper, we are proposing a new metric to compare different video prediction models based on this argument. More specifically, we propose an action inference system and quantitatively rank different models based on how well we can infer the robot actions from the predicted frames. Our extensive experiments show that models with high perceptual scores can perform poorly in the proposed action inference tests and thus, may not be suitable options to be used in robot planning systems.


Title: Hyperproperties for Robotics: Planning via HyperLTL
Key Words: formal specification  path planning  robots  temporal logic  hyperproperties  formal methods  temporal logic objectives  hyper-temporal logics  multiple paths  HyperLTL specifications  planning strategies  robotic planning  discrete transition systems  Planning  Robustness  Privacy  Automata  Model checking  Task analysis 
Abstract: There is a growing interest on formal methods-based robotic planning for temporal logic objectives. In this work, we extend the scope of existing synthesis methods to hyper-temporal logics. We are motivated by the fact that important planning objectives, such as optimality, robustness, and privacy, (maybe implicitly) involve the interrelation between multiple paths. Such objectives are thus hyperproperties, and cannot be expressed with usual temporal logics like the linear temporal logic (LTL). We show that such hyperproperties can be expressed by HyperLTL, an extension of LTL to multiple paths. To handle the complexity of planning with HyperLTL specifications, we introduce a symbolic approach for synthesizing planning strategies on discrete transition systems. Our planning method is evaluated on several case studies.


Title: Abstractions for computing all robotic sensors that suffice to solve a planning problem
Key Words: computational complexity  control engineering computing  data structures  graph theory  planning (artificial intelligence)  robots  search problems  sensors  robotic sensors  planning problem  search algorithms  sensor designs  design trade-offs  sensor maps  potential sensors  outer limits  search space  data structures  single special representative  task domain knowledge  sensor technology  particular problem instances  sensor characterization pairs  yielding solutions  Robot sensing systems  Planning  Sensor phenomena and characterization  Uncertainty  Collision avoidance 
Abstract: Whether a robot can perform some specific task depends on several aspects, including the robot's sensors and the plans it possesses. We are interested in search algorithms that treat plans and sensor designs jointly, yielding solutions-i.e., plan and sensor characterization pairs-if and only if they exist. Such algorithms can help roboticists explore the space of sensors to aid in making design trade-offs. Generalizing prior work where sensors are modeled abstractly as sensor maps on p-graphs, the present paper increases the potential sensors which can be sought significantly. But doing so enlarges a problem currently on the outer limits of being considered tractable. Toward taming this complexity, two contributions are made: (1) we show how to represent the search space for this more general problem and describe data structures that enable whole sets of sensors to be summarized via a single special representative; (2) we give a means by which other structure (either task domain knowledge, sensor technology or fabrication constraints) can be incorporated to reduce the sets to be enumerated. These lead to algorithms that we have implemented and which suffice to solve particular problem instances, albeit only of small scale. Nevertheless, the algorithm aids in helping understand what attributes sensors must possess and what information they must provide in order to ensure a robot can achieve its goals despite non-determinism.


Title: T* : A Heuristic Search Based Path Planning Algorithm for Temporal Logic Specifications
Key Words: collision avoidance  graph theory  mobile robots  navigation  search problems  temporal logic  trajectory control  obstacle avoidance  heuristic search based path planning algorithm  temporal logic path planning  graph search problem  point-to-point navigation  temporal logic specifications  temporal logic query  optimal trajectory  Dijkstra's shortest path algorithm  Automata  Heuristic algorithms  Trajectory  Task analysis  Robot kinematics 
Abstract: The fundamental path planning problem for a mobile robot involves generating a trajectory for point-to-point navigation while avoiding obstacles. Heuristic-based search algorithms like A* have been shown to be efficient in solving such planning problems. Recently, there has been an increased interest in specifying complex path planning problem using temporal logic. In the state-of-the-art algorithm, the temporal logic path planning problem is reduced to a graph search problem, and Dijkstra's shortest path algorithm is used to compute the optimal trajectory satisfying the specification. The A* algorithm, when used with an appropriate heuristic for the distance from the destination, can generate an optimal path in a graph more efficiently than Dijkstra's shortest path algorithm. The primary challenge for using A* algorithm in temporal logic path planning is that there is no notion of a single destination state for the robot. We present a novel path planning algorithm T* that uses the A* search procedure opportunistically to generate an optimal trajectory satisfying a temporal logic query. Our experimental results demonstrate that T* achieves an order of magnitude improvement over the state-of-the-art algorithm to solve many temporal logic path planning problems in 2-D as well as 3-D workspaces.


Title: Global/local motion planning based on Dynamic Trajectory Reconfiguration and Dynamical Systems for Autonomous Surgical Robots
Key Words: collision avoidance  medical robotics  mobile robots  motion control  splines (mathematics)  surgery  robotic minimally invasive surgery  geometric constraints  desired task  final target  moving obstacles  developed motion planner  two-layer architecture  global level computes smooth spline-based trajectories  collision free connections  realistic surgical scenario  autonomous surgical  collision-free trajectories  autonomous execution  assistive tasks  dynamical systems based obstacle avoidance  Trajectory  Tools  Robots  Collision avoidance  Task analysis  Surgery  Splines (mathematics) 
Abstract: This paper addresses the generation of collision-free trajectories for the autonomous execution of assistive tasks in Robotic Minimally Invasive Surgery (R-MIS). The proposed approach takes into account geometric constraints related to the desired task, like for example the direction to approach the final target and the presence of moving obstacles. The developed motion planner is structured as a two-layer architecture: a global level computes smooth spline-based trajectories that are continuously updated using virtual potential fields; a local level, exploiting Dynamical Systems based obstacle avoidance, ensures collision free connections among the spline control points. The proposed architecture is validated in a realistic surgical scenario.


Title: Deep Imitative Reinforcement Learning for Temporal Logic Robot Motion Planning with Noisy Semantic Observations
Key Words: Markov processes  mobile robots  motion control  neurocontrollers  path planning  probability  temporal logic  noisy semantic observations  mobile robots  linear temporal logic specifications  robot sensing error  probabilistic labels  labeled transition system  robot mobility  labeled Markov decision process  unknown transition probabilities  product-based model checkers  probabilistic labeling functions  Q-learning agent  deep imitative reinforcement learning  temporal logic robot motion planning  deep imitative Q-learning method  DIQL  control policies synthesis  LTL  LMDP  suboptimal instructions  Robot sensing systems  Labeling  Uncertainty  Semantics  Probabilistic logic 
Abstract: In this paper, we propose a Deep Imitative Q-learning (DIQL) method to synthesize control policies for mobile robots that need to satisfy Linear Temporal Logic (LTL) specifications using noisy semantic observations of their surroundings. The robot sensing error is modeled using probabilistic labels defined over the states of a Labeled Transition System (LTS) and the robot mobility is modeled using a Labeled Markov Decision Process (LMDP) with unknown transition probabilities. We use existing product-based model checkers (PMCs) as experts to guide the Q-learning algorithm to convergence. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first approach that models noise in semantic observations using probabilistic labeling functions and employs existing model checkers to provide suboptimal instructions to the Q-learning agent.


Title: Minimal 3D Dubins Path with Bounded Curvature and Pitch Angle
Key Words: optimisation  path planning  vehicles  minimal 3D Dubins path  bounded curvature  pitch angle  cost-efficient three-dimensional paths  two-dimensional Dubins curves  closed-form solutions  local optimization  cost-efficient solution  lower bound estimation  optimal path  vehicle  Three-dimensional displays  Two dimensional displays  Turning  Path planning  Atmospheric modeling  Space vehicles  Optimization 
Abstract: In this paper, we address the problem of finding cost-efficient three-dimensional paths that satisfy the maximum allowed curvature and the pitch angle of the vehicle. For any given initial and final configurations, the problem is decoupled into finding the horizontal and vertical parts of the path separately. Although the individual paths are modeled as two-dimensional Dubins curves using closed-form solutions, the final 3D path is constructed using the proposed local optimization to find a cost-efficient solution. Moreover, based on the decoupled approach, we provide a lower bound estimation of the optimal path that enables us to determine the quality of the found heuristic solution. The proposed solution has been evaluated using existing benchmark instances and compared with state-of-the-art approaches. Based on the reported results and lower bounds, the proposed approach provides paths close to the optimal solution while the computational requirements are in hundreds of microseconds. Besides, the proposed method provides paths with fewer turns than others, which make them easier to be followed by the vehicle's controller.


Title: Map-Predictive Motion Planning in Unknown Environments
Key Words: mobile robots  navigation  path planning  predictive control  trajectory control  map prediction  data-driven method  autonomous navigation  hallway environments  naïve frontier pursuit method  heuristic methods  map-predictive motion planning  dynamically-constrained robots  trajectory planning  robot position  frontier selection heuristics  Robots  Trajectory  Planning  Navigation  Collision avoidance  Safety  Cognition 
Abstract: Algorithms for motion planning in unknown environments are generally limited in their ability to reason about the structure of the unobserved environment. As such, current methods generally navigate unknown environments by relying on heuristic methods to choose intermediate objectives along frontiers. We present a unified method that combines map prediction and motion planning for safe, time-efficient au-tonomous navigation of unknown environments by dynamically-constrained robots. We propose a data-driven method for predicting the map of the unobserved environment, using the robot's observations of its surroundings as context. These map predictions are then used to plan trajectories from the robot's position to the goal without requiring frontier selection. We applied this map-predictive motion planning strategy to randomly generated winding hallway environments, yielding substantial improvement in trajectory duration over a naïve frontier pursuit method. We also experimentally demonstrate similar performance to methods using more sophisticated fron-tier selection heuristics while significantly reducing computation time.


Title: An Efficient and Continuous Approach to Information-Theoretic Exploration
Key Words: computational complexity  information theory  mobile robots  path planning  robot vision  SLAM (robots)  information-theoretic exploration  continuous occupancy map framework  |Θ| measurement beams  recursive structure  robotics applications  autonomous navigation task  Robot sensing systems  Mutual information  Distortion measurement  Gain measurement  Time measurement 
Abstract: Exploration of unknown environments is embedded and essential in many robotics applications. Traditional algorithms, that decide where to explore by computing the expected information gain of an incomplete map from future sensor measurements, are limited to very powerful computational platforms. In this paper, we describe a novel approach for computing this expected information gain efficiently, as principally derived via mutual information. The key idea behind the proposed approach is a continuous occupancy map framework and the recursive structure it reveals. This structure makes it possible to compute the expected information gain of sensor measurements across an entire map much faster than computing each measurements' expected gain independently. Specifically, for an occupancy map composed of |M| cells and a range sensor that emits |Θ| measurement beams, the algorithm (titled FCMI) computes the information gain corresponding to measurements made at each cell in O(|Θ||M|) steps. To the best of our knowledge, this complexity bound is better than all existing methods for computing information gain. In our experiments, we observe that this novel, continuous approach is two orders of magnitude faster than the state-of-the-art FSMI algorithm.


Title: A Feature-Based Underwater Path Planning Approach using Multiple Perspective Prior Maps
Key Words: autonomous underwater vehicles  bathymetry  maximum likelihood estimation  mobile robots  navigation  path planning  remotely operated vehicles  multiple perspective prior maps  path planning methodology  Autonomous Underwater Vehicles  AUV  shallow complex environments  coral reefs  aerial photographic survey  bathymetric information  prior map  navigation graph  test points  shortest paths  destination points  maximum likelihood function  misclassified objects  photo-realistic simulated environment  Navigation  Cameras  Sensors  Uncertainty  Image segmentation  Feature extraction  Robots 
Abstract: This paper presents a path planning methodology which enables Autonomous Underwater Vehicles (AUVs) to navigate in shallow complex environments such as coral reefs. The approach leverages prior information from an aerial photographic survey, and derived bathymetric information of the corresponding area. From these prior maps, a set of features is obtained which define an expected arrangement of objects and bathymetry likely to be perceived by the AUV when underwater. A navigation graph is then constructed by predicting the arrangement of features visible from a set of test points within the prior, which allows the calculation of the shortest paths from any pair of start and destination points. A maximum likelihood function is defined which allows the AUV to match its observations to the navigation graph as it undertakes its mission. To improve robustness, the history of observed features are retained to facilitate possible recovery from non-detectable or misclassified objects. The approach is evaluated using a photo-realistic simulated environment, and results illustrate the merits of the approach even when only a relatively small number of features can be identified from the prior map.


Title: Motion Estimation in Occupancy Grid Maps in Stationary Settings Using Recurrent Neural Networks
Key Words: image filtering  image motion analysis  motion estimation  optical radar  path planning  probability  radar imaging  recurrent neural nets  traffic engineering computing  occupancy grid maps  recurrent neural networks  grid cell  occupancy probability  measurement grid maps  occupancy probabilities  filtered occupancy  network architecture  Computer architecture  Microprocessors  Vehicle dynamics  Measurement by laser beam  Time measurement  Recurrent neural networks  Dynamics 
Abstract: In this work, we tackle the problem of modeling the vehicle environment as dynamic occupancy grid map in complex urban scenarios using recurrent neural networks. Dynamic occupancy grid maps represent the scene in a bird's eye view, where each grid cell contains the occupancy prob-ability and the two dimensional velocity. As input data, our approach relies on measurement grid maps, which contain occupancy probabilities, generated with lidar measurements. Given this configuration, we propose a recurrent neural net-work architecture to predict a dynamic occupancy grid map, i.e. filtered occupancy and velocity of each cell, by using a sequence of measurement grid maps. Our network architecture contains convolutional long-short term memories in order to sequentially process the input, makes use of spatial context, and captures motion. In the evaluation, we quantify improvements in estimating the velocity of braking and turning vehicles compared to the state-of-the-art. Additionally, we demonstrate that our approach provides more consistent velocity estimates for dynamic objects, as well as, less erroneous velocity estimates in static area.


Title: Actively Mapping Industrial Structures with Information Gain-Based Planning on a Quadruped Robot
Key Words: collision avoidance  image representation  legged locomotion  robot vision  industrial structure  mapping industrial structures  information gain-based planning  quadruped robot  online active mapping system  voxel representation  NBV  expected information gain  terrain map  ANYbotics ANYmal robot  Robot sensing systems  Service robots  Solid modeling  Planning  Laser radar 
Abstract: In this paper, we develop an online active mapping system to enable a quadruped robot to autonomously survey large physical structures. We describe the perception, planning and control modules needed to scan and reconstruct an object of interest, without requiring a prior model. The system builds a voxel representation of the object, and iteratively determines the Next-Best-View (NBV) to extend the representation, according to both the reconstruction itself and to avoid collisions with the environment. By computing the expected information gain of a set of candidate scan locations sampled on the as-sensed terrain map, as well as the cost of reaching these candidates, the robot decides the NBV for further exploration. The robot plans an optimal path towards the NBV, avoiding obstacles and un-traversable terrain. Experimental results on both simulated and real-world environments show the capability and efficiency of our system. Finally we present a full system demonstration on the real robot, the ANYbotics ANYmal, autonomously reconstructing a building facade and an industrial structure.


Title: Optimal Reduced-order Modeling of Bipedal Locomotion
Key Words: legged locomotion  nonlinear control systems  pendulums  reduced order systems  robot dynamics  springs (mechanical)  five-link model  Cassie bipedal robot  optimal reduced-order modeling  bipedal locomotion  legged locomotion  LIP  spring-loaded inverted pendulum  SLIP  agile maneuvers  high-dimensional system  ground inclines  Task analysis  Legged locomotion  Reduced order systems  Lips  Trajectory optimization 
Abstract: State-of-the-art approaches to legged locomotion are widely dependent on the use of models like the linear inverted pendulum (LIP) and the spring-loaded inverted pendulum (SLIP), popular because their simplicity enables a wide array of tools for planning, control, and analysis. However, they inevitably limit the ability to execute complex tasks or agile maneuvers. In this work, we aim to automatically synthesize models that remain low-dimensional but retain the capabilities of the high-dimensional system. For example, if one were to restore a small degree of complexity to LIP, SLIP, or a similar model, our approach discovers the form of that additional complexity which optimizes performance. In this paper, we define a class of reduced-order models and provide an algorithm for optimization within this class. To demonstrate our method, we optimize models for walking at a range of speeds and ground inclines, for both a five-link model and the Cassie bipedal robot.


Title: Online Planning for Quadrotor Teams in 3-D Workspaces via Reachability Analysis On Invariant Geometric Trees
Key Words: aerospace control  helicopters  multi-robot systems  path planning  position control  reachability analysis  robot dynamics  trees (mathematics)  collision-free geometric solution guarantees  online planning  aerial robots  quadrotor teams  cluttered 3D workspaces  reachability analysis  kinodynamic multirobot planning problem  position invariant geometric trees  kinodynamically feasible trajectories  multirobot team  nonstationary initial states  Collision avoidance  Planning  Robot kinematics  Vegetation  Trajectory  Reachability analysis 
Abstract: We consider the kinodynamic multi-robot planning problem in cluttered 3-D workspaces. Reachability analysis on position invariant geometric trees is leveraged to find kino- dynamically feasible trajectories for the multi-robot team from potentially non-stationary initial states. The key contribution of our approach is that a collision-free geometric solution guarantees a kinodynamically feasible, safe solution without additional refinement. Simulation results with up-to 40 robots and hardware results with 5 robots suggest the viability of the proposed approach for online planning and replanning for large teams of aerial robots in cluttered 3-D workspaces.


Title: DC-CAPT: Concurrent Assignment and Planning of Trajectories for Dubins Cars
Key Words: collision avoidance  mobile robots  path planning  robot kinematics  trajectory control  Dubins curves  holonomic robots  separation distance  trajectory planning  collision-free trajectories  Dubins cars  concurrent assignment  DC-CAPT  Automobiles  Collision avoidance  Robots  Trajectory  Planning  Turning  Kinematics 
Abstract: We present an algorithm for the concurrent assignment and planning of collision-free trajectories (DC-CAPT) for robots whose kinematics can be modeled as Dubins cars, i.e., robots constrained in terms of their initial orientation and their minimum turning radius. Coupling the assignment and trajectory planning subproblems allows for a computationally tractable solution. This solution is guaranteed to be collision- free through the use of a single constraint: the start and goal locations have separation distance greater than some threshold. We derive this separation distance by extending a prior work that assumed holonomic robots. We demonstrate the validity of our approach, and show its efficacy through simulations and experiments where groups of robots executing Dubins curves travel to their assigned goal locations without collisions.


Title: On sensing-aware model predictive path-following control for a reversing general 2-trailer with a car-like tractor
Key Words: control system synthesis  mobile robots  motion control  path planning  position control  predictive control  road traffic control  road vehicles  stability  vehicle dynamics  sensing-aware model predictive path  car-like tractor  controller-design problem  joint-angle kinematics  backward motion  vehicle segments  jackknife state  joint-angle estimation problem  path-following controller  Agricultural machinery  Axles  Sensors  Kinematics  Reliability  Estimation  Trajectory 
Abstract: The design of reliable path-following controllers is a key ingredient for successful deployment of self-driving vehicles. This controller-design problem is especially challenging for a general 2-trailer with a car-like tractor due to the vehicle's structurally unstable joint-angle kinematics in backward motion and the car-like tractor's curvature limitations which can cause the vehicle segments to fold and enter a jackknife state. Furthermore, advanced sensors with a limited field of view have been proposed to solve the joint-angle estimation problem online, which introduce additional restrictions on which vehicle states that can be reliably estimated. To incorporate these restrictions at the level of control, a model predictive path-following controller is proposed. By taking the vehicle's physical and sensing limitations into account, it is shown in real-world experiments that the performance of the proposed path-following controller in terms of suppressing disturbances and recovering from non-trivial initial states is significantly improved compared to a previously proposed solution where the constraints have been neglected.


Title: Inferring Task-Space Central Pattern Generator Parameters for Closed-loop Control of Underactuated Robots
Key Words: closed loop systems  graph theory  legged locomotion  motion control  neurocontrollers  optimisation  path planning  real-time systems  sampling methods  optimal behaviors  gradient free optimization  closed loop control  underactuated robots  legged robot control  real time applications  probabilistic graphical model  locomotive behaviors  task space central pattern generator  sampling based motion planner  neural oscillator network  Mathematical model  Robot kinematics  Adaptation models  Probability distribution  Oscillators  Legged locomotion 
Abstract: The complexity associated with the control of highly-articulated legged robots scales quickly as the number of joints increases. Traditional approaches to the control of these robots are often impractical for many real-time applications. This work thus presents a novel sampling-based planning approach for highly-articulated robots that utilizes a probabilistic graphical model (PGM) to infer in real-time how to optimally modify goal-driven, locomotive behaviors for use in closed-loop control. Locomotive behaviors are quantified in terms of the parameters associated with a network of neural oscillators, or rather a central pattern generator (CPG). For the first time, we show that the PGM can be used to optimally modulate different behaviors in real-time (i.e., to select of optimal choice of parameter values across the CPG model) in response to changes both in the local environment and in the desired control signal. The PGM is trained offline using a library of optimal behaviors that are generated using a gradient-free optimization framework.


Title: In-Hand Manipulation of Objects with Unknown Shapes
Key Words: dexterous manipulators  graph theory  learning (artificial intelligence)  unknown shape  grasp configurations  deep generative models  object shapes  partial visual sensing  object shape uncertainty  manipulation actions  in-hand manipulation tasks  unknown objects  dexterous manipulation graph method  Shape  Grippers  Three-dimensional displays  Task analysis  Planning  Robots  Uncertainty 
Abstract: This work addresses the problem of changing grasp configurations on objects with an unknown shape through in-hand manipulation. Our approach leverages shape priors, learned as deep generative models, to infer novel object shapes from partial visual sensing. The Dexterous Manipulation Graph method is extended to build incrementally and account for object shape uncertainty when planning a sequence of manipulation actions. We show that our approach successfully solves in-hand manipulation tasks with unknown objects, and demonstrate the validity of these solutions with robot experiments.


Title: Tactile Dexterity: Manipulation Primitives with Tactile Feedback
Key Words: closed loop systems  dexterous manipulators  end effectors  force control  manipulator dynamics  path planning  perturbation techniques  robot vision  tactile sensors  robot trajectories  manipulation primitives  ABB YuMi dual-arm robot  tactile dexterity  tactile feedback  closed-loop tactile controllers  dexterous robotic manipulation  dual-palm robotic system  tactile control  tactile-based tracking  end-effector  Tactile sensors  Trajectory  Force  Friction  Perturbation methods 
Abstract: This paper develops closed-loop tactile controllers for dexterous robotic manipulation with a dual-palm robotic system. Tactile dexterity is an approach to dexterous manipulation that plans for robot/object interactions that render interpretable tactile information for control. We divide the role of tactile control into two goals: 1) control the contact state between the end-effector and the object (contact/no-contact, stick/slip) by regulating the stability of planned contact configurations and monitoring undesired slip events; and 2) control the object state by tactile-based tracking and iterative replanning of the object and robot trajectories. Key to this formulation is the decomposition of manipulation plans into sequences of manipulation primitives with simple mechanics and efficient planners. We consider the scenario of manipulating an object from an initial pose to a target pose on a flat surface while correcting for external perturbations and uncertainty in the initial pose of the object. We experimentally validate the approach with an ABB YuMi dual-arm robot and demonstrate the ability of the tactile controller to react to external perturbations.


Title: Local Trajectory Stabilization for Dexterous Manipulation via Piecewise Affine Approximations
Key Words: approximation theory  dexterous manipulators  feedback  linear programming  linearisation techniques  manipulator dynamics  nonlinear control systems  stability  piecewise affine approximations  dexterous robotic manipulation  nonsmooth nonlinear system  trajectory optimization  local multicontact dynamics  piecewise affine system  linearization  feedback controller  linear programs  local trajectory stabilization  dexterous manipulation  feedback policy design  Trajectory optimization  Manipulator dynamics  Task analysis  Planning 
Abstract: We propose a model-based approach to design feedback policies for dexterous robotic manipulation. The manipulation problem is formulated as reaching the target region from an initial state for some non-smooth nonlinear system. First, we use trajectory optimization to find a feasible trajectory. Next, we characterize the local multi-contact dynamics around the trajectory as a piecewise affine system, and build a funnel around the linearization of the nominal trajectory using polytopes. We prove that the feedback controller at the vicinity of the linearization is guaranteed to drive the nonlinear system to the target region. During online execution, we solve linear programs to track the system trajectory. We validate the algorithm on hardware, showing that even under large external disturbances, the controller is able to accomplish the task.


Title: Design and Analysis of a Synergy-Inspired Three-Fingered Hand
Key Words: dexterous manipulators  grippers  manipulator kinematics  motion control  synergy-inspired hands  biomechanical characteristics  human hand synergy  robot hands  synergy characteristics  anthropomorphic hands  synergy-inspired design  Thumb  Robots  Joints  Muscles  Grasping  Electronics packaging 
Abstract: Hand synergy from neuroscience provides an effective tool for anthropomorphic hands to realize versatile grasping with simple planning and control. This paper aims to extend the synergy-inspired design from anthropomorphic hands to multi-fingered robot hands. The synergy-inspired hands are not necessarily humanoid in morphology but perform primary characteristics and functions similar to the human hand. At first, the biomechanics of hand synergy is investigated. Three biomechanical characteristics of the human hand synergy are explored as a basis for the mechanical simplification of the robot hands. Secondly, according to the synergy characteristics, a three-fingered hand is designed, and its kinematic model is developed for the analysis of some typical grasping and manipulation functions. Finally, a prototype is developed and preliminary grasping experiments validate the effectiveness of the design and analysis.


Title: Photometric Path Planning for Vision-Based Navigation
Key Words: cameras  manipulators  navigation  path planning  robot vision  photometric path planning  vision-based navigation system  visual memory  topological map  virtual camera  navigability  visual path  navigation stage  onboard camera  top view image  learning stage  urban scene  Visualization  Navigation  Cameras  Visual servoing 
Abstract: We present a vision-based navigation system that uses a visual memory to navigate. Such memory corresponds to a topological map of key images created from moving a virtual camera over a model of the real scene. The advantage of our approach is that it provides a useful insight into the navigability of a visual path without relying on a traditional learning stage. During the navigation stage, the robot is controlled by sequentially comparing the images stored in the memory with the images acquired by the onboard camera.The evaluation is conducted on a robotic arm equipped with a camera and the model of the environment corresponds to a top view image of an urban scene.


Title: Contact-based Bounding Volume Hierarchy for Assembly Tasks
Key Words: assembling  collision avoidance  computational geometry  industrial control  path planning  distance computation algorithms  path planning  contact-based assembly tasks  collision queries  distance queries  bounding volume hierarchy  broad phase proximity query algorithm  contact-based hierarchy for assembly tasks  CHAT tasks  Path planning  Task analysis  Geometry  Buildings  Planning  Measurement  Solid modeling 
Abstract: Path planning of an object which is allowed to be in contact with other objects during assembly process is a significant challenge due to the variety of permitted or forbidden collisions between the distinct parts of the objects to be assembled. In order to put objects together in real-life scenarios, parts of assembled objects may be required to flex, whereas other parts may have to fit exactly. Consequently, existing collision checking and distance computation algorithms have to be modified to enable path planning of objects that can be in contact during the assembly process. In this paper, we analyze an improved broad phase proximity query algorithm to enable such contact-based assembly tasks we call CHAT (Contact-based Hierarchy for Assembly Tasks). We demonstrate that, compared to existing approaches, our proposed method is more than an order of magnitude faster for collision queries and up to three times faster for distance queries when the two objects contain a large number of parts (with some parts containing thousands or tens of thousands of triangles). Due to the nature of the algorithm, we expect the performance improvements to increase as the number of parts in an object becomes larger.


Title: Construction of Bounding Volume Hierarchies for Triangle Meshes with Mixed Face Sizes
Key Words: collision avoidance  computational geometry  computer graphics  manufacturing industries  mesh generation  trees (mathematics)  BVH node  IPS CDC  split axis  split position  IPS Path Planner  collision-free disassembly paths  bounding volume hierarchies  mixed face sizes  BVH  complex 3D geometries  triangle meshes  collision and distance computation module  manufacturing industries  tighter-fitting bounding volumes  IP networks  Covariance matrices  Three-dimensional displays  Tensile stress  Cost function  Path planning  Geometry 
Abstract: We consider the problem of creating tighter-fitting bounding volumes (more specifically rectangular swept spheres) when constructing bounding volume hierarchies (BVHs) for complex 3D geometries given in the form of unstructured triangle meshes/soups with the aim of speeding up our IPS Path Planner for rigid bodies, where the triangles often have very different sizes. Currently, the underlying collision and distance computation module (IPS CDC) does not take into account the sizes of the triangles when it constructs BVHs using a top-down strategy. To split triangles in a BVH node into two BVH nodes, IPS CDC has to compute both the split axis and the split position. In this work, we use the principal axes of the tensor of inertia as the potential split axes and the center of mass as the split position, where the computations of both the tensor of inertia and the center of mass require knowledge of the areas of the triangles. We show that our method improves performance (up to 20 % faster) of our IPS Path Planner when it is used to plan collision-free disassembly paths for three different test cases taken from manufacturing industries.


Title: Strategy for automated dense parking: how to navigate in narrow lanes*
Key Words: automobiles  Global Positioning System  Lyapunov methods  mobile robots  motion control  navigation  path planning  road traffic control  narrow lanes  high- density parking solution  car-like robots  hard constraints  robot motion  robot localization  navigation  configuration space formulation  Stanley Robotics robots  automated dense parking  Lyapunov- based control strategy  GPS orientation  Robots  Collision avoidance  Aerospace electronics  Navigation  Mathematical model  Kinematics  Automobiles 
Abstract: This paper presents the architecture of a high- density parking solution based on car-like robots specifically designed to move cars. The main difficulty is to park the vehicles close to one another which implies hard constraints on the robot motion and localization. In particular, this paper focuses on navigation in narrow lanes. We propose a Lyapunov- based control strategy that has been derived after expressing the problem in a Configuration Space formulation. The current solution has been implemented and tested on Stanley Robotics' robots and has been running in production for several months. Thanks to the Configuration Space formulation, we are able to guarantee the obstacles' integrity. Moreover, a method for calibrating the GPS orientation with a high-precision is derived from the present control strategy.


Title: Online optimal motion generation with guaranteed safety in shared workspace
Key Words: collision avoidance  industrial manipulators  motion control  occupational safety  path planning  predictive control  online optimal motion generation  guaranteed safety  shared workspace  safer manipulator robots  serious injury  equip robots  online motion generation  partially unknown dynamic environment  industrial manipulator robots  model predictive control scheme  Collision avoidance  Trajectory  Safety  Manipulators  Robot sensing systems  Service robots 
Abstract: With new, safer manipulator robots, the probability of serious injury due to collisions with humans remains low (5%), even at speeds as high as 2 m.s-1. Collisions would better be avoided nevertheless, because they disrupt the tasks of both the robot and the human. We propose in this paper to equip robots with exteroceptive sensors and online motion generation so that the robot is able to perceive and react to the motion of the human in order to reduce the occurrence of collisions. It's impossible to guarantee that no collision will ever take place in a partially unknown dynamic environment such as a shared workspace, but we can guarantee instead that, if a collision takes place, the robot is at rest at the time of collision, so that it doesn't inject its own kinetic energy in the collision. To do so, we adapt a Model Predictive Control scheme which has been demonstrated previously with two industrial manipulator robots avoiding collisions while sharing their workspace. The proposed control scheme is validated in simulation.


Title: Probabilistic Effect Prediction through Semantic Augmentation and Physical Simulation
Key Words: failure analysis  humanoid robots  mobile robots  planning (artificial intelligence)  probability  probabilistic effect prediction  semantic augmentation  exact outcome  failure situations  failure tolerance  robot actions  augmenting collected experience  semantic knowledge  realistic physics simulations  outcome probabilities  unknown tasks  simulated experience  action success probabilities  world experiments  humanoid robot  planning trials  Rollin Justin  Robots  Planning  Probabilistic logic  Cognition  Semantics  Task analysis  Predictive models 
Abstract: Nowadays, robots are mechanically able to perform highly demanding tasks, where AI-based planning methods are used to schedule a sequence of actions that result in the desired effect. However, it is not always possible to know the exact outcome of an action in advance, as failure situations may occur at any time. To enhance failure tolerance, we propose to predict the effects of robot actions by augmenting collected experience with semantic knowledge and leveraging realistic physics simulations. That is, we consider semantic similarity of actions in order to predict outcome probabilities for previously unknown tasks. Furthermore, physical simulation is used to gather simulated experience that makes the approach robust even in extreme cases. We show how this concept is used to predict action success probabilities and how this information can be exploited throughout future planning trials. The concept is evaluated in a series of real world experiments conducted with the humanoid robot Rollin' Justin.


Title: Anytime Integrated Task and Motion Policies for Stochastic Environments
Key Words: intelligent robots  mobile robots  multi-agent systems  multi-robot systems  path planning  planning (artificial intelligence)  stochastic processes  multiple execution-time contingencies  motion policies  stochastic settings  stochastic situations  abstract models  motion planning  abstract planning  intelligent robots  stochastic environments  anytime integrated task  Robots  Planning  Task analysis  Computational modeling  Collision avoidance  Stochastic processes  Trajectory 
Abstract: In order to solve complex, long-horizon tasks, intelligent robots need to carry out high-level, abstract planning and reasoning in conjunction with motion planning. However, abstract models are typically lossy and plans or policies computed using them can be unexecutable. These problems are exacerbated in stochastic situations where the robot needs to reason about, and plan for multiple contingencies. We present a new approach for integrated task and motion planning in stochastic settings. In contrast to prior work in this direction, we show that our approach can effectively compute integrated task and motion policies whose branching structures encoding agent behaviors handling multiple execution-time contingencies. We prove that our algorithm is probabilistically complete and can compute feasible solution policies in an anytime fashion so that the probability of encountering an unresolved contingency decreases over time. Empirical results on a set of challenging problems show the utility and scope of our methods.


Title: A Data-driven Planning Framework for Robotic Texture Painting on 3D Surfaces
Key Words: geometry  image texture  industrial robots  mixing  painting  path planning  recurrent neural nets  robot vision  supervised learning  robotic texture painting  painting textures  surface geometry  paint mixing  self-supervised learning framework  painting process  paint simulation environment  robot executes  data-driven planning framework  paint delivery tool flow rate  3D surfaces  recurrent neural network  RNN  Painting  Paints  Robots  Three-dimensional displays  Solid modeling  Two dimensional displays 
Abstract: Painting textures on 3D surfaces requires an understanding of the surface geometry, paint flow and paint mixing. This work formulates automated painting as a planning problem and proposes a solution based on a self-supervised learning framework that enables a robot to paint monochromatic non-uniform textures on 3D surfaces. We developed a method that iteratively decides the actions to take based on constant feedback of the painting process. Inspired by recent results, we formulate our solution using a recurrent neural network (RNN) to decide where and what to paint on the surface at each time instant. Specifically, the paint delivery tool's flow rate, orientation and position relative to the surface at each time instant are evaluated. This data can then be processed by a robot's planner of choice for generating a painting mission that can achieve the desired end result. We evaluate the proposed approach by providing qualitative and quantitative results of the different components. Furthermore, we validate the effectiveness of the approach for the application by providing renderings from a paint simulation environment and show how a robot executes the planned painting mission on a generic 3D surface.


Title: Learned Critical Probabilistic Roadmaps for Robotic Motion Planning
Key Words: graph theory  mobile robots  motion control  path planning  sampling methods  implicit graph representation  state space  solution trajectories  graph-theoretic techniques  hierarchical graph  uniform sampling  sampling-based motion planning  robotic motion planning  motion planning techniques  learned critical probabilistic roadmaps  critical PRM  critical probabilistic roadmaps  Planning  Robots  Trajectory  Probabilistic logic  Training  Complexity theory  Neural networks 
Abstract: Sampling-based motion planning techniques have emerged as an efficient algorithmic paradigm for solving complex motion planning problems. These approaches use a set of probing samples to construct an implicit graph representation of the robot's state space, allowing arbitrarily accurate representations as the number of samples increases to infinity. In practice, however, solution trajectories only rely on a few critical states, often defined by structure in the state space (e.g., doorways). In this work we propose a general method to identify these critical states via graph-theoretic techniques (betweenness centrality) and learn to predict criticality from only local environment features. These states are then leveraged more heavily via global connections within a hierarchical graph, termed Critical Probabilistic Roadmaps. Critical PRMs are demonstrated to achieve up to three orders of magnitude improvement over uniform sampling, while preserving the guarantees and complexity of sampling-based motion planning. A video is available at https://youtu.be/AYoD-pGd9ms.


Title: Learning Heuristic A*: Efficient Graph Search using Neural Network
Key Words: graph theory  learning (artificial intelligence)  neural nets  optimisation  path planning  search problems  path planning problem  computation load  neural network  optimal paths  optimal cost  global optimality  admissible heuristic function  efficient graph search  learning heuristic A*  LHA*  suboptimality bound  maze-like map  Heuristic algorithms  Training  Path planning  Biological neural networks  Robots  Navigation 
Abstract: In this paper, we consider the path planning problem on a graph. To reduce computation load by efficiently exploring the graph, we model the heuristic function as a neural network, which is trained by a training set derived from optimal paths to estimate the optimal cost between a pair of vertices on the graph. As such heuristic function cannot be proved to be an admissible heuristic to guarantee the global optimality of the path, we adapt an admissible heuristic function for the terminating criteria. Thus, proposed Learning Heuristic A* (LHA*) guarantees the bounded suboptimality of the path. The performance of LHA* was demonstrated by simulations in a maze-like map and compared with the performance of weighted A* with the same suboptimality bound.


Title: 3D-CNN Based Heuristic Guided Task-Space Planner for Faster Motion Planning
Key Words: collision avoidance  convolutional neural nets  learning (artificial intelligence)  manipulators  mobile robots  sampling methods  stereo image processing  trees (mathematics)  TS-RRT  task-space rapidly-exploring random trees  3D-CNN  heuristic guided task-space planner  fully convolutional neural networks  heuristic map  Random Trees  sampling-based planner  collision-free path  robotic manipulation  motion planning  Planning  Task analysis  Robots  Collision avoidance  Heuristic algorithms  Feature extraction  Convolution 
Abstract: Motion planning is important in a wide variety of applications such as robotic manipulation. However, it is still challenging to reliably find a collision-free path within a reasonable time. To address the issue, this paper proposes a novel framework which combines a sampling-based planner and deep learning for faster motion planning, focusing on heuristics. The proposed method extends Task-Space Rapidly-exploring Random Trees (TS-RRT) to guide the trees with a "heuristic map" where every voxel has a cost-to-go value toward the goal. It also utilizes fully convolutional neural networks (CNNs) for producing more appropriate heuristic maps, rather than manually-designed heuristics. To verify the effectiveness of the proposed method, experiments for motion planning using a real environment and mobile manipulator are carried out. The results indicate that it outperforms the existing planners, especially in terms of the average planning time with smaller variance.


Title: Learned Sampling Distributions for Efficient Planning in Hybrid Geometric and Object-Level Representations
Key Words: geometry  image representation  learning (artificial intelligence)  mobile robots  multi-agent systems  path planning  robot vision  linear regression  efficiency planning  sampling distribution learning  sampling-based planners  object-level semantics  myopic behavior  geometric information  navigation  robotic agent  object-level representations  hybrid geometric  Navigation  Planning  Semantics  Trajectory  Mathematical model  Optimization  Robots 
Abstract: We would like to enable a robotic agent to quickly and intelligently find promising trajectories through structured, unknown environments. Many approaches to navigation in unknown environments are limited to considering geometric information only, which leads to myopic behavior. In this work, we show that learning a sampling distribution that incorporates both geometric information and explicit, object-level semantics for sampling-based planners enables efficient planning at longer horizons in partially-known environments. We demonstrate that our learned planner is up to 2.7 times more likely to find a plan than the baseline, and can result in up to a 16% reduction in traversal costs as calculated by linear regression. We also show promising qualitative results on real-world data.


Title: Deep Visual Heuristics: Learning Feasibility of Mixed-Integer Programs for Manipulation Planning
Key Words: integer programming  learning (artificial intelligence)  manipulators  neurocontrollers  path planning  robot vision  deep visual heuristics  mixed-integer program  deep neural network  visual input  robot manipulation planning  motion planning  learning algorithm  goal encoding  optimization problems  Planning  Task analysis  Robot sensing systems  Neural networks  Grasping  Search problems 
Abstract: In this paper, we propose a deep neural network that predicts the feasibility of a mixed-integer program from visual input for robot manipulation planning. Integrating learning into task and motion planning is challenging, since it is unclear how the scene and goals can be encoded as input to the learning algorithm in a way that enables to generalize over a variety of tasks in environments with changing numbers of objects and goals. To achieve this, we propose to encode the scene and the target object directly in the image space.Our experiments show that our proposed network generalizes to scenes with multiple objects, although during training only two objects are present at the same time. By using the learned network as a heuristic to guide the search over the discrete variables of the mixed-integer program, the number of optimization problems that have to be solved to find a feasible solution or to detect infeasibility can greatly be reduced.


Title: Fast Frontier-based Information-driven Autonomous Exploration with an MAV
Key Words: autonomous aerial vehicles  collision avoidance  entropy  microrobots  mobile robots  navigation  octrees  probability  robot vision  MAV  collision-free navigation  autonomous robots  microaerial vehicles  map entropy  occupancy probabilities  utility function  frontier extraction  frontier-based exploration  frontier voxels  map frontiers  frontier-based information-driven autonomous exploration  exploration planner  octree map representation  visual-based navigation  motion planning  octree-based occupancy mapping  sampling-based exploration  Planning  Octrees  Entropy  Robot sensing systems  Measurement  Task analysis  Aerial Systems: Perception and Autonomy  Visual-Based Navigation 
Abstract: Exploration and collision-free navigation through an unknown environment is a fundamental task for autonomous robots. In this paper, a novel exploration strategy for Micro Aerial Vehicles (MAVs) is presented. The goal of the exploration strategy is the reduction of map entropy regarding occupancy probabilities, which is reflected in a utility function to be maximised. We achieve fast and efficient exploration performance with tight integration between our octree-based occupancy mapping approach, frontier extraction, and motion planning-as a hybrid between frontier-based and sampling-based exploration methods. The computationally expensive frontier clustering employed in classic frontier-based exploration is avoided by exploiting the implicit grouping of frontier voxels in the underlying octree map representation. Candidate next-views are sampled from the map frontiers and are evaluated using a utility function combining map entropy and travel time, where the former is computed efficiently using sparse raycasting. These optimisations along with the targeted exploration of frontier-based methods result in a fast and computationally efficient exploration planner. The proposed method is evaluated using both simulated and real-world experiments, demonstrating clear advantages over state-of-the-art approaches.


Title: Dynamic Landing of an Autonomous Quadrotor on a Moving Platform in Turbulent Wind Conditions
Key Words: aircraft landing guidance  autonomous aerial vehicles  Global Positioning System  helicopters  Kalman filters  mobile robots  nonlinear filters  robot dynamics  robot vision  robust control  turbulence  variable structure systems  vehicle dynamics  dynamic landing  autonomous quadrotor  moving platform  turbulent wind conditions  autonomous landing  fast trajectory planning  wind disturbance  fully autonomous vision-based system  quadrotor-platform distance  landing trajectory  receding horizon control  boundary layer sliding controller  extended Kalman filter  GPS measurements  robust control  precise control  Trajectory  Cameras  Vehicle dynamics  Planning  Global Positioning System  Visualization  Acceleration  Unmanned aerial vehicles  autonomous vehicles  landing on a moving platform  disturbance compensation 
Abstract: Autonomous landing on a moving platform presents unique challenges for multirotor vehicles, including the need to accurately localize the platform, fast trajectory planning, and precise/robust control. Previous works studied this problem but most lack explicit consideration of the wind disturbance, which typically leads to slow descents onto the platform. This work presents a fully autonomous vision-based system that addresses these limitations by tightly coupling the localization, planning, and control, thereby enabling fast and accurate landing on a moving platform. The platform's position, orientation, and velocity are estimated by an extended Kalman filter using simulated GPS measurements when the quadrotor-platform distance is large, and by a visual fiducial system when the platform is nearby. The landing trajectory is computed online using receding horizon control and is followed by a boundary layer sliding controller that provides tracking performance guarantees in the presence of unknown, but bounded, disturbances. To improve the performance, the characteristics of the turbulent conditions are accounted for in the controller. The landing trajectory is fast, direct, and does not require hovering over the platform, as is typical of most stateof-the-art approaches. Simulations and hardware experiments are presented to validate the robustness of the approach.


Title: Direct NMPC for Post-Stall Motion Planning with Fixed-Wing UAVs
Key Words: aerodynamics  aerospace components  autonomous aerial vehicles  feedback  mobile robots  motion control  nonlinear control systems  path planning  position control  predictive control  vehicle dynamics  rotary-wing UAVs  nonlinear control approach  fixed-wing UAVs  full-state direct trajectory optimization  representative aircraft model  nonlinear aircraft model  fixed-wing trajectories  randomized motion planning  local-linear feedback  direct NMPC  post-stall motion planning  fixed-wing unmanned aerial vehicles  frequency 5.0 Hz  Aerodynamics  Trajectory  Atmospheric modeling  Real-time systems  Computational modeling  Planning  Splines (mathematics) 
Abstract: Fixed-wing unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs) offer significant performance advantages over rotary-wing UAVs in terms of speed, endurance, and efficiency. However, these vehicles have traditionally been severely limited with regards to maneuverability. In this paper, we present a nonlinear control approach for enabling aerobatic fixed-wing UAVs to maneuver in constrained spaces. Our approach utilizes full-state direct trajectory optimization and a minimalistic, but representative, nonlinear aircraft model to plan aggressive fixed-wing trajectories in real-time at 5 Hz across high angles-of-attack. Randomized motion planning is used to avoid local minima and local-linear feedback is used to compensate for model inaccuracies between updates. We demonstrate our method in hardware and show that both local-linear feedback and re-planning are necessary for successful navigation of a complex environment in the presence of model uncertainty.


Title: Autonomous Navigation in Unknown Environments using Sparse Kernel-based Occupancy Mapping
Key Words: collision avoidance  image classification  learning (artificial intelligence)  mobile robots  path planning  robot vision  trajectory control  decision boundary  kernel perceptron classifier  online training algorithm  piecewise-polynomial robot trajectories  autonomous navigation  Ackermann-drive robot  sparse kernel-based occupancy  real-time occupancy mapping  autonomous robot  map representation  piecewise-polynomial robot trajectory  piecewise-linear robot trajectory  collision checking algorithm  Support vector machines  Kernel  Training  Robot sensing systems  Collision avoidance  Trajectory 
Abstract: This paper focuses on real-time occupancy mapping and collision checking onboard an autonomous robot navigating in an unknown environment. We propose a new map representation, in which occupied and free space are separated by the decision boundary of a kernel perceptron classifier. We develop an online training algorithm that maintains a very sparse set of support vectors to represent obstacle boundaries in configuration space. We also derive conditions that allow complete (without sampling) collision-checking for piecewise-linear and piecewise-polynomial robot trajectories. We demonstrate the effectiveness of our mapping and collision checking algorithms for autonomous navigation of an Ackermann-drive robot in unknown environments.


Title: Hybrid Topological and 3D Dense Mapping through Autonomous Exploration for Large Indoor Environments
Key Words: image representation  indoor navigation  mobile robots  path planning  robot vision  SLAM (robots)  stereo image processing  topology  indoor environments  topological global representations  3D dense submaps  hybrid global map  autonomous exploration  autonomous navigation  path planning  dense 3D maps  3D dense representations  3D dense mapping systems  hybrid topological mapping  metric 3D maps  standard CPU  Three-dimensional displays  Measurement  Robots  Semantics  Two dimensional displays  Indoor environments  Path planning 
Abstract: Robots require a detailed understanding of the 3D structure of the environment for autonomous navigation and path planning. A popular approach is to represent the environment using metric, dense 3D maps such as 3D occupancy grids. However, in large environments the computational power required for most state-of-the-art 3D dense mapping systems is compromising precision and real-time capability. In this work, we propose a novel mapping method that is able to build and maintain 3D dense representations for large indoor environments using standard CPUs. Topological global representations and 3D dense submaps are maintained as hybrid global map. Submaps are generated for every new visited place. A place (room) is identified as an isolated part of the environment connected to other parts through transit areas (doors). This semantic partitioning of the environment allows for a more efficient mapping and path-planning. We also propose a method for autonomous exploration that directly builds the hybrid representation in real time.We validate the real-time performance of our hybrid system on simulated and real environments regarding mapping and path-planning. The improvement in execution time and memory requirements upholds the contribution of the proposed work.


Title: Resolving Marker Pose Ambiguity by Robust Rotation Averaging with Clique Constraints*
Key Words: computer vision  object detection  optimisation  path planning  pose estimation  robot vision  SLAM (robots)  lifted algorithm  combinatorial complexity  heuristic criterion  planar pose estimation  marker-based mapping  highly ambiguous inputs  PPE ambiguities  possible marker orientation solutions  rotation averaging formulation  marker corners  computer vision  planar markers  clique constraints  robust rotation averaging  marker pose ambiguity  Cameras  Pipelines  Machine-to-machine communications  Image edge detection  Pose estimation  Simultaneous localization and mapping  Histograms 
Abstract: Planar markers are useful in robotics and computer vision for mapping and localisation. Given a detected marker in an image, a frequent task is to estimate the 6DOF pose of the marker relative to the camera, which is an instance of planar pose estimation (PPE). Although there are mature techniques, PPE suffers from a fundamental ambiguity problem, in that there can be more than one plausible pose solutions for a PPE instance. Especially when localisation of the marker corners is noisy, it is often difficult to disambiguate the pose solutions based on reprojection error alone. Previous methods choose between the possible solutions using a heuristic criterion, or simply ignore ambiguous markers.We propose to resolve the ambiguities by examining the consistencies of a set of markers across multiple views. Our specific contributions include a novel rotation averaging formulation that incorporates long-range dependencies between possible marker orientation solutions that arise from PPE ambiguities. We analyse the combinatorial complexity of the problem, and develop a novel lifted algorithm to effectively resolve marker pose ambiguities, without discarding any marker observations. Results on real and synthetic data show that our method is able to handle highly ambiguous inputs, and provides more accurate and/or complete marker-based mapping and localisation.


Title: Look, Listen, and Act: Towards Audio-Visual Embodied Navigation
Key Words: acoustic signal processing  audio signal processing  audio-visual systems  human computer interaction  mobile agents  navigation  path planning  audio-visual embodied navigation  mobile intelligent agents  multiple sensory inputs  sound source  indoor environment  raw egocentric visual data  audio sensory data  audio signal  visual environment  visual pieces  audio pieces  visual perception mapper module  sound perception module  audio-visual observations  simulated multimodal environment  visual-audio-room dataset  Navigation  Visualization  Task analysis  Robot sensing systems  Visual perception  Acoustics  Feature extraction 
Abstract: A crucial ability of mobile intelligent agents is to integrate the evidence from multiple sensory inputs in an environment and to make a sequence of actions to reach their goals. In this paper, we attempt to approach the problem of Audio-Visual Embodied Navigation, the task of planning the shortest path from a random starting location in a scene to the sound source in an indoor environment, given only raw egocentric visual and audio sensory data. To accomplish this task, the agent is required to learn from various modalities, i.e., relating the audio signal to the visual environment. Here we describe an approach to audio-visual embodied navigation that takes advantage of both visual and audio pieces of evidence. Our solution is based on three key ideas: a visual perception mapper module that constructs its spatial memory of the environment, a sound perception module that infers the relative location of the sound source from the agent, and a dynamic path planner that plans a sequence of actions based on the audio-visual observations and the spatial memory of the environment to navigate toward the goal. Experimental results on a newly collected Visual-Audio-Room dataset using the simulated multi-modal environment demonstrate the effectiveness of our approach over several competitive baselines.


Title: Multi-Robot Path Deconfliction through Prioritization by Path Prospects
Key Words: mobile robots  multi-robot systems  path planning  path prospects  prioritization rule  heterogeneous robot teams  multirobot path deconfliction  conflict-free path planning  mobile robots  conflict-free path plans  prioritization heuristics  Robot kinematics  Collision avoidance  Planning  Trajectory  Heuristic algorithms  Couplings 
Abstract: This work deals with the problem of planning conflict-free paths for mobile robots in cluttered environments. Since centralized, coupled planning algorithms are computationally intractable for large numbers of robots, we consider decoupled planning, in which robots plan their paths sequentially in order of priority. Choosing how to prioritize the robots is a key consideration. State-of-the-art prioritization heuristics, however, do not model the coupling between a robot's mobility and its environment. This is particularly relevant when prioritizing between robots with different degrees of mobility. In this paper, we propose a prioritization rule that can be computed online by each robot independently, and that provides consistent, conflict-free path plans. Our innovation is to formalize a robot's path prospects to reach its goal from its current location. To this end, we consider the number of homology classes of trajectories, which capture distinct prospects of paths for each robot. This measure is used as a prioritization rule, whenever any robots enter negotiation to deconflict path plans. We perform simulations with heterogeneous robot teams and compare our method to five benchmarks. Our method achieves the highest success rate, and strikes a good balance between makespan and flowtime objectives.


Title: A Connectivity-Prediction Algorithm and its Application in Active Cooperative Localization for Multi-Robot Systems
Key Words: Markov processes  mobile robots  motion control  multi-robot systems  path planning  probability  infinite power series expansion theorem  finite-term approximation  computational feasibility  adverse impacts  higher order series terms  active CL  leader-follower architecture  Markov decision process  one-step planning horizon  optimal motion strategy  MDP model  connectivity-prediction algorithm  multirobot systems  future connectivity  mobile robots  range-limited communication  active motion planning  quadratic forms  random normal variables  Prediction algorithms  Robot sensing systems  Planning  Uncertainty  Computational modeling  Gaussian distribution 
Abstract: This paper presents a method for predicting the probability of future connectivity between mobile robots with range-limited communication. In particular, we focus on its application to active motion planning for cooperative localization (CL). The probability of connection is modeled by the distribution of quadratic forms in random normal variables and is computed by the infinite power series expansion theorem. A finite-term approximation is made to realize the computational feasibility and three more modifications are designed to handle the adverse impacts introduced by the omission of the higher order series terms. On the basis of this algorithm, an active and CL problem with leader-follower architecture is then reformulated into a Markov Decision Process (MDP) with a one-step planning horizon, and the optimal motion strategy is generated by minimizing the expected cost of the MDP. Extensive simulations and comparisons are presented to show the effectiveness and efficiency of both the proposed prediction algorithm and the MDP model.


Title: Picking Thin Objects by Tilt-and-Pivot Manipulation and Its Application to Bin Picking
Key Words: dexterous manipulators  end effectors  grippers  industrial manipulators  manipulator kinematics  robot vision  convex polygonal objects  bin picking scenarios  manipulation process  robotic dexterous in-hand manipulation  tilt-and-pivot manipulation  thin object picking  tilt-and-pivot kinematics  tilt-and-pivot planning  Grippers  Shape  Solids  Surface treatment  Hardware  Robot sensing systems 
Abstract: This paper introduces the technique of tilt-and-pivot manipulation, a new method for picking thin, rigid objects lying on a flat surface through robotic dexterous in-hand manipulation. During the manipulation process, the gripper is controlled to reorient about the contact with the object such that its finger can get in the space between the object and the supporting surface, which is formed by tilting up the object, with no relative sliding motion at the contact. As a result, a pinch grasp can be obtained on the faces of the thin object with ease. We discuss issues regarding the kinematics and planning of tilt-and-pivot, effector shape design, and the overall practicality of the manipulation technique, which is general enough to be applicable to any rigid convex polygonal objects. We also present a set of experiments in a range of bin picking scenarios.


Title: Local Obstacle-Skirting Path Planning for a Fast Bi-steerable Rover using Bézier Curves
Key Words: automatic guided vehicles  collision avoidance  curve fitting  mobile robots  navigation  off-road vehicles  predictive control  stability  steering systems  vehicle dynamics  local obstacle-skirting path planning  obstacle avoidance  off-road mobile robots  global reference path  smooth path  lateral stability  double-steering rover  online cubic Bezier curves  bi-steerable rover  constrained model predictive control  navigation  autonomous guided vehicles  Safety  Collision avoidance  Mobile robots  Lead  Path planning  Robot kinematics 
Abstract: This paper focuses on local path planning for obstacle avoidance tasks dedicated to off-road mobile robots. This approach calculates a new local path for the vehicle using a set of cubic Bezier curves once the safety distance is not respected; otherwise, the vehicle follows the global reference path which is defined off-line. Two basic steps are used to determine this new path. Firstly, some significant points that should belong to the planned path are extracted on-line according to the obstacle's sizes and the current state of the vehicle, these points are approved as waypoints. Secondly, on-line cubic Bezier curves are computed to create a smooth path for these points such that the safety and lateral stability of the vehicle are ensured (i.e., preventing huge curvatures and wide-variation in steering angles). This path will be used as a reference to be performed by the vehicle using a constrained model predictive control. The validation of our navigation strategy is performed via numerical simulations and experiments using a fast double-steering rover.


Title: Path Planning in Dynamic Environments using Generative RNNs and Monte Carlo Tree Search
Key Words: collision avoidance  learning (artificial intelligence)  mobile robots  Monte Carlo methods  recurrent neural nets  tree searching  Monte Carlo tree search  generative recurrent neural networks  integrated path  motion models  traffic  robotic path planning  dynamic environments  effective path planning  motion prediction accuracy  planned robotic actions  generative RNNs  action space  crowd dynamics  social response  learnt model  Robots  Predictive models  Path planning  Decoding  Collision avoidance  Training  Dynamics 
Abstract: State of the art methods for robotic path planning in dynamic environments, such as crowds or traffic, rely on hand crafted motion models for agents. These models often do not reflect interactions of agents in real world scenarios. To overcome this limitation, this paper proposes an integrated path planning framework using generative Recurrent Neural Networks within a Monte Carlo Tree Search (MCTS). This approach uses a learnt model of social response to predict crowd dynamics during planning across the action space. This extends our recent work using generative RNNs to learn the relationship between planned robotic actions and the likely response of a crowd. We show that the proposed framework can considerably improve motion prediction accuracy during interactions, allowing more effective path planning. The performance of our method is compared in simulation with existing methods for collision avoidance in a crowd of pedestrians, demonstrating the ability to control future states of nearby individuals. We also conduct preliminary real world tests to validate the effectiveness of our method.


Title: Safety-Critical Rapid Aerial Exploration of Unknown Environments
Key Words: autonomous aerial vehicles  collision avoidance  helicopters  mobile robots  sensors  uncertain systems  high-speed flight  uncertain environments  controller level  state uncertainty  nonlinear system dynamics  high-fidelity simulation  cave environment  safety-critical rapid aerial exploration  collision avoidance  aerial vehicles  unknown environments  quadrotor  onboard sensors  Safety  Collision avoidance  Three-dimensional displays  Drones  Trajectory  Vehicle dynamics  Planning 
Abstract: This paper details a novel approach to collision avoidance for aerial vehicles that enables high-speed flight in uncertain environments. This framework is applied at the controller level and provides safety regardless of the planner that is used. The method is shown to be robust to state uncertainty and disturbances, and is computed entirely online utilizing the full nonlinear system dynamics. The effectiveness of this method is shown in a high-fidelity simulation of a quadrotor with onboard sensors rapidly and safely exploring a cave environment utilizing a simple planner.


Title: Near-Optimal Reactive Synthesis Incorporating Runtime Information
Key Words: control system synthesis  mobile robots  optimisation  path planning  suboptimal control  mission specification  dynamic environment  performance metric  task-critical information  strategy synthesis  time-varying information  online re-synthesis  pre-specified representative information scenarios  performance suboptimality  runtime information  near-optimal reactive synthesis  switching mechanism  robotic motion planning  Runtime  Switches  Games  Robots  Measurement  Safety  Planning 
Abstract: We consider the problem of optimal reactive synthesis - compute a strategy that satisfies a mission specification in a dynamic environment, and optimizes a given performance metric. We incorporate task-critical information, that is only available at runtime, into the strategy synthesis in order to improve performance. Existing approaches to utilising such time-varying information require online re-synthesis, which is not computationally feasible in real-time applications. In this paper, we presynthesize a set of strategies corresponding to candidate instantiations (pre-specified representative information scenarios). We then propose a novel switching mechanism to dynamically switch between the strategies at runtime while guaranteeing all safety and liveness goals are met. We also characterize bounds on the performance suboptimality. We demonstrate our approach on two examples - robotic motion planning where the likelihood of the position of the robot's goal is updated in real-time, and an air traffic management problem for urban air mobility.


Title: Control Synthesis from Linear Temporal Logic Specifications using Model-Free Reinforcement Learning
Key Words: control system synthesis  decision theory  learning (artificial intelligence)  Markov processes  mobile robots  path planning  probability  temporal logic  motion planning  MDP  RL-based synthesis approach  discount factors  model-free RL algorithm  total discounted reward  optimal policy  transition probabilities  LTL formula  Markov decision process  unknown stochastic environment  control policy synthesis  reinforcement learning frame-work  model-free reinforcement learning  linear temporal logic specifications  control synthesis  Learning (artificial intelligence)  Automata  Planning  Markov processes  Computational modeling  Task analysis 
Abstract: We present a reinforcement learning (RL) frame-work to synthesize a control policy from a given linear temporal logic (LTL) specification in an unknown stochastic environment that can be modeled as a Markov Decision Process (MDP). Specifically, we learn a policy that maximizes the probability of satisfying the LTL formula without learning the transition probabilities. We introduce a novel rewarding and discounting mechanism based on the LTL formula such that (i) an optimal policy maximizing the total discounted reward effectively maximizes the probabilities of satisfying LTL objectives, and (ii) a model-free RL algorithm using these rewards and discount factors is guaranteed to converge to such a policy. Finally, we illustrate the applicability of our RL-based synthesis approach on two motion planning case studies.


Title: Transferable Task Execution from Pixels through Deep Planning Domain Learning
Key Words: learning systems  manipulators  neurocontrollers  robot vision  symbolic operators  manipulation tasks  transferable task execution  visual input  symbolic planning methods  partially-observable world  hierarchical model  high-level model  deep planning domain learning  symbolic world state  DPDL  STRIPS  logical predicates  low-level policy learning  photorealistic kitchen scenario  Task analysis  Planning  Robot sensing systems  Grounding  Robustness  Feature extraction 
Abstract: While robots can learn models to solve many manipulation tasks from raw visual input, they cannot usually use these models to solve new problems. On the other hand, symbolic planning methods such as STRIPS have long been able to solve new problems given only a domain definition and a symbolic goal, but these approaches often struggle on the real world robotic tasks due to the challenges of grounding these symbols from sensor data in a partially-observable world. We propose Deep Planning Domain Learning (DPDL), an approach that combines the strengths of both methods to learn a hierarchical model. DPDL learns a high-level model which predicts values for a large set of logical predicates consisting of the current symbolic world state, and separately learns a low-level policy which translates symbolic operators into executable actions on the robot. This allows us to perform complex, multistep tasks even when the robot has not been explicitly trained on them. We show our method on manipulation tasks in a photorealistic kitchen scenario.


Title: Using Synthetic Data and Deep Networks to Recognize Primitive Shapes for Object Grasping
Key Words: convolutional neural nets  dexterous manipulators  image segmentation  learning (artificial intelligence)  mobile robots  object recognition  path planning  robot vision  shape recognition  synthetic data  deep networks  primitive shape  object grasping  segmentation-based architecture  monocular depth input  backbone deep network  parametrized grasp families  shape primitive region  task-free grasping  shape primitives  task-relevant grasp prediction  ranking algorithm  task-free grasp prediction  Shape  Grasping  Image segmentation  Three-dimensional displays  Task analysis  Robot sensing systems 
Abstract: A segmentation-based architecture is proposed to decompose objects into multiple primitive shapes from monocular depth input for robotic manipulation. The backbone deep network is trained on synthetic data with 6 classes of primitive shapes generated by a simulation engine. Each primitive shape is designed with parametrized grasp families, permitting the pipeline to identify multiple grasp candidates per shape primitive region. The grasps are priority ordered via proposed ranking algorithm, with the first feasible one chosen for execution. On task-free grasping of individual objects, the method achieves a 94% success rate. On task-oriented grasping, it achieves a 76% success rate. Overall, the method supports the hypothesis that shape primitives can support task-free and task-relevant grasp prediction.


Title: Human Driver Behavior Prediction based on UrbanFlow*
Key Words: decision making  driver information systems  mobile robots  road safety  road traffic  road vehicles  traffic engineering computing  transportation  human driver behavior prediction  public transportation systems  fully automatic transportation environments  autonomous vehicle decision making  planning  LSTM-based trajectory prediction method  urban scenario  Trajectory  Autonomous vehicles  Data collection  Automobiles  Roads  Drones 
Abstract: How autonomous vehicles and human drivers share public transportation systems is an important problem, as fully automatic transportation environments are still a long way off. Understanding human drivers' behavior can be beneficial for autonomous vehicle decision making and planning, especially when the autonomous vehicle is surrounded by human drivers who have various driving behaviors and patterns of interaction with other vehicles. In this paper, we propose an LSTM-based trajectory prediction method for human drivers which can help the autonomous vehicle make better decisions, especially in urban intersection scenarios. Meanwhile, in order to collect human drivers' driving behavior data in the urban scenario, we describe a system called UrbanFlow which includes the whole procedure from raw bird's-eye view data collection via drone to the final processed trajectories. The system is mainly intended for urban scenarios but can be extended to be used for any traffic scenarios.


Title: Predicting Pushing Action Effects on Spatial Object Relations by Learning Internal Prediction Models
Key Words: graph theory  humanoid robots  learning (artificial intelligence)  manipulators  spatial object relations  learning internal prediction models  robot tasks  possible action consequences  action parameters  desired goal states  parametrizing pushing actions  high-level planner  object-centric graphs  synthetic data set  goal state  possible pushing action candidates  high prediction accuracy  humanoid robot ARMAR-6  learned internal model  pushing action effects  Predictive models  Two dimensional displays  Robots  Data models  Physics  Three-dimensional displays  Analytical models 
Abstract: Understanding the effects of actions is essential for planning and executing robot tasks. By imagining possible action consequences, a robot can choose specific action parameters to achieve desired goal states. We present an approach for parametrizing pushing actions based on learning internal prediction models. These pushing actions must fulfill constraints given by a high-level planner, e. g., after the push the brown box must be to the right of the orange box. In this work, we represent the perceived scenes as object-centric graphs and learn an internal model, which predicts object pose changes due to pushing actions. We train this internal model on a large synthetic data set, which was generated in simulation, and record a smaller data set on the real robot for evaluation. For a given scene and goal state, the robot generates a set of possible pushing action candidates by sampling the parameter space and then evaluating the candidates by internal simulation, i. e., by comparing the predicted effect resulting from the internal model with the desired effect provided by the high-level planner. In the evaluation, we show that our model achieves high prediction accuracy in scenes with a varying number of objects and, in contrast to state-of-the-art approaches, is able to generalize to scenes with more objects than seen during training. In experiments on the humanoid robot ARMAR-6, we validate the transfer from simulation and show that the learned internal model can be used to manipulate scenes into desired states effectively.


Title: Learning of Key Pose Evaluation for Efficient Multi-contact Motion Planner
Key Words: humanoid robots  learning (artificial intelligence)  legged locomotion  motion control  neural nets  path planning  pose estimation  robot vision  robust control  transfer functions  locomotion  uneven terrain  multicontact motion planning  pose evaluation  neural network  activation function  robust robotics system  humanoid robots  deep learning  depth image  Planning  Trajectory  Torque  Legged locomotion  Jacobian matrices  Knee  Collision avoidance 
Abstract: It is necessary to use not only foot but also hand, knee and other body parts to support body weight for locomotion in uneven terrain. Such multi-contact motion planning is an important research topic including lots of previous works; however, a problem of computational speed of planning is still remaining. In this paper, we propose a learning-based algorithm to speed up the planning. The algorithm reduces replanning of contact states by learning an evaluation function of key pose to reach goal. We investigated the learning performance by comparing three neural network configurations and two activation function. This research aims at achieving robust robotics system in unknown environments.


Title: Differentiable Gaussian Process Motion Planning
Key Words: collision avoidance  Gaussian processes  learning (artificial intelligence)  mobile robots  motion control  optimisation  trajectory optimization  robotics tasks  trajectory optimization algorithms  differentiable extension  GPMP2 algorithm  learning-based approach  Gaussian process motion planning algorithm  motion planning  Planning  Conferences  Automation  Gaussian processes  Artificial intelligence  Trajectory optimization  Robots 
Abstract: Modern trajectory optimization based approaches to motion planning are fast, easy to implement, and effective on a wide range of robotics tasks. However, trajectory optimization algorithms have parameters that are typically set in advance (and rarely discussed in detail). Setting these parameters properly can have a significant impact on the practical performance of the algorithm, sometimes making the difference between finding a feasible plan or failing at the task entirely. We propose a method for leveraging past experience to learn how to automatically adapt the parameters of Gaussian Process Motion Planning (GPMP) algorithms. Specifically, we propose a differentiable extension to the GPMP2 algorithm, so that it can be trained end-to-end from data. We perform several experiments that validate our algorithm and illustrate the benefits of our proposed learning-based approach to motion planning.


Title: Learn and Link: Learning Critical Regions for Efficient Planning
Key Words: convolutional neural nets  learning (artificial intelligence)  neurocontrollers  path planning  sampling methods  convolutional neural networks  sampling-based planners  planning time  motion planning problems  open motion planning library  sampling-based algorithms  uniform sampling  sampling-based motion planners  Planning  Probabilistic logic  Robots  Density measurement  Task analysis  Buildings  Convolutional neural networks 
Abstract: This paper presents a new approach to learning for motion planning (MP) where critical regions of an environment are learned from a given set of motion plans and used to improve performance on new environments and problem instances. We introduce a new suite of sampling-based motion planners, Learn and Link. Our planners leverage critical regions to overcome the limitations of uniform sampling, while still maintaining guarantees of correctness inherent to sampling-based algorithms. We also show that convolutional neural networks (CNNs) can be used to identify critical regions for motion planning problems. We evaluate Learn and Link against planners from the Open Motion Planning Library (OMPL) using an extensive suite of experiments on challenging motion planning problems. We show that our approach requires far less planning time than existing sampling-based planners.


Title: Informative Path Planning for Active Field Mapping under Localization Uncertainty
Key Words: Gaussian processes  mobile robots  path planning  informative path planning  active field mapping  localization uncertainty  information gathering algorithms  efficient data collection  fundamental problem  implicit requirement  high-quality maps  informative planning framework  active mapping  Gaussian process model  target environmental field  utility function  field mapping objectives  GP-based mapping scenarios  mean pose uncertainty  map error  indoor temperature mapping scenario  Uncertainty  Planning  Robot sensing systems  Trajectory  Manuals  Robot localization 
Abstract: Information gathering algorithms play a key role in unlocking the potential of robots for efficient data collection in a wide range of applications. However, most existing strategies neglect the fundamental problem of the robot pose uncertainty, which is an implicit requirement for creating robust, high-quality maps. To address this issue, we introduce an informative planning framework for active mapping that explicitly accounts for the pose uncertainty in both the mapping and planning tasks. Our strategy exploits a Gaussian Process (GP) model to capture a target environmental field given the uncertainty on its inputs. For planning, we formulate a new utility function that couples the localization and field mapping objectives in GP-based mapping scenarios in a principled way, without relying on manually-tuned parameters. Extensive simulations show that our approach outperforms existing strategies, reducing mean pose uncertainty and map error. We present a proof of concept in an indoor temperature mapping scenario.


Title: Ensemble of Sparse Gaussian Process Experts for Implicit Surface Mapping with Streaming Data
Key Words: Gaussian processes  mobile robots  path planning  regression analysis  robot vision  SLAM (robots)  sparse Gaussian process experts  implicit surface mapping  streaming data  creating maps  robotics  navigation  compact surface map  continuous implicit surface map  range data  approximate Gaussian process experts  GP models  model complexity  prediction error  real-world data sets  compact surface models  accurate implicit surface models  exact GP regression  subsampled data  Surface treatment  Data models  Predictive models  Covariance matrices  Gaussian processes  Computational modeling  Measurement uncertainty 
Abstract: Creating maps is an essential task in robotics and provides the basis for effective planning and navigation. In this paper, we learn a compact and continuous implicit surface map of an environment from a stream of range data with known poses. For this, we create and incrementally adjust an ensemble of approximate Gaussian process (GP) experts which are each responsible for a different part of the map. Instead of inserting all arriving data into the GP models, we greedily trade-off between model complexity and prediction error. Our algorithm therefore uses less resources on areas with few geometric features and more where the environment is rich in variety. We evaluate our approach on synthetic and real-world data sets and analyze sensitivity to parameters and measurement noise. The results show that we can learn compact and accurate implicit surface models under different conditions, with a performance comparable to or better than that of exact GP regression with subsampled data.


Title: Sufficiently Accurate Model Learning
Key Words: learning (artificial intelligence)  control algorithms  primal-dual method  sufficiently accurate models  traditional control  error characteristics  inaccurate physical measurements  planning algorithms  robot  accurate model learning  Task analysis  Optimization  Data models  Adaptation models  Heuristic algorithms  Neural networks  Planning 
Abstract: Modeling how a robot interacts with the environment around it is an important prerequisite for designing control and planning algorithms. In fact, the performance of controllers and planners is highly dependent on the quality of the model. One popular approach is to learn data driven models in order to compensate for inaccurate physical measurements and to adapt to systems that evolve over time. In this paper, we investigate a method to regularize model learning techniques to provide better error characteristics for traditional control and planning algorithms. This work proposes learning "Sufficiently Accurate" models of dynamics using a primal-dual method that can explicitly enforce constraints on the error in pre-defined parts of the state-space. The result of this method is that the error characteristics of the learned model is more predictable and can be better utilized by planning and control algorithms. The characteristics of Sufficiently Accurate models are analyzed through experiments on a simulated ball paddle system.


Title: Towards Plan Transformations for Real-World Mobile Fetch and Place
Key Words: manipulators  mobile robots  path planning  service robots  cleaning tasks  mobile manipulation plans  plan transformations  mobile fetch and place  robot behavior  table setting tasks  Task analysis  Planning  Runtime  Manipulators  Transforms  Complexity theory 
Abstract: In this paper, we present an approach and an implemented framework for applying plan transformations to real-world mobile manipulation plans, in order to specialize them to the specific situation at hand. The framework can improve execution cost and achieve better performance by autonomously transforming robot's behavior at runtime. To demonstrate the feasibility of our approach, we apply three example transformations to the plan of a PR2 robot performing simple table setting and cleaning tasks in the real world. Based on a large amount of experiments in a fast plan projection simulator, we make conclusions on improved execution performance.


Title: Planning an Efficient and Robust Base Sequence for a Mobile Manipulator Performing Multiple Pick-and-place Tasks
Key Words: collision avoidance  mobile robots  motion control  redundant manipulators  mobile manipulator  planned base positions  robust base sequence  precomputed reachability database  base positioning uncertainty  collision free inverse kinematics solutions  multiple pick and place tasks  kinematic redundancy  Manipulators  Databases  Task analysis  Robustness  Grasping  Uncertainty  Planning 
Abstract: In this paper, we address efficiently and robustly collecting objects stored in different trays using a mobile manipulator. A resolution complete method, based on precomputed reachability database, is proposed to explore collision-free inverse kinematics (IK) solutions and then a resolution complete set of feasible base positions can be determined. This method approximates a set of representative IK solutions that are especially helpful when solving IK and checking collision are treated separately. For real world applications, we take into account the base positioning uncertainty and plan a sequence of base positions that reduce the number of necessary base movements for collecting the target objects, the base sequence is robust in that the mobile manipulator is able to complete the part-supply task even there is certain deviation from the planned base positions. Our experiments demonstrate both the efficiency compared to regular base sequence and the feasibility in real world applications.


Title: A Model-Free Approach to Meta-Level Control of Anytime Algorithms
Key Words: learning (artificial intelligence)  mobile robots  optimisation  autonomous system  real-time planning problems  model-free approach  anytime algorithms  computation time  meta-level control technique  meta-level control problem  reinforcement learning methods  mobile robot domain  Learning (artificial intelligence)  Autonomous systems  Planning  Heuristic algorithms  Computational modeling  Real-time systems  Uncertainty 
Abstract: Anytime algorithms offer a trade-off between solution quality and computation time that has proven to be useful in autonomous systems for a wide range of real-time planning problems. In order to optimize this trade-off, an autonomous system has to solve a challenging meta-level control problem: it must decide when to interrupt the anytime algorithm and act on the current solution. Prevailing meta-level control techniques, however, make a number of unrealistic assumptions that reduce their effectiveness and usefulness in the real world. Eliminating these assumptions, we first introduce a model-free approach to meta-level control based on reinforcement learning and prove its optimality. We then offer a general meta-level control technique that can use different reinforcement learning methods. Finally, we show that our approach is effective across several common benchmark domains and a mobile robot domain.


Title: Simultaneous task allocation and motion scheduling for complex tasks executed by multiple robots
Key Words: cutting  industrial manipulators  motion control  multi-robot systems  optimisation  rapid prototyping (industrial)  scheduling  spot welding  time-varying portion  generic optimization method  varying complexity  dual-arm robot  robot arm  motion scheduling  multiple robot coordination  simultaneous task allocation  additive manufacturing  cutting  spot welding  bolt tightening  bolt inserting  robot kinematics  Task analysis  Robot kinematics  Planning  Collision avoidance  Job shop scheduling  Resource management  task scheduling  dual-arm manipulation  motion planning  multi-robot systems 
Abstract: The coordination of multiple robots operating simultaneously in the same workspace requires the integration of task allocation and motion scheduling. We focus on tasks in which the robot's actions are not confined to small volumes, but can also occupy a large time-varying portion of the workspace, such as in welding along a line. The optimization of such tasks presents a considerable challenge mainly due to the fact that different variants of task execution exist, for instance, there can be multiple starting points of lines or closed curves, differentfilling patterns of areas, etc. We propose a generic and computationally efficient optimization method which is based on constraint programming. It takes into account the kinematics of the robots and guarantees that the motions of the robots are collision-free while minimizing the overall makespan. We evaluate our approach on several use-cases of varying complexity: cutting, additive manufacturing, spot welding, inserting and tightening bolts, performed by a dual-arm robot. In terms of the makespan, the result is superior to task execution by one robot arm as well as by two arms not working simultaneously.


Title: Efficient Planning for High-Speed MAV Flight in Unknown Environments Using Online Sparse Topological Graphs
Key Words: aerospace navigation  air safety  autonomous aerial vehicles  collision avoidance  graph theory  infinite horizon  microrobots  mobile robots  probability  robot vision  search problems  high-speed MAV flight  online sparse topological graphs  safe high-speed autonomous navigation  local planning grid  computationally-efficient planning architecture  safe high-speed operation  longer-term memory  motion primitive-based local receding horizon planner  memory-efficient sparse topological graph  planning system  complex simulation environments  robot decision making  probabilistic collision avoidance  safe rerouting  Planning  Collision avoidance  Robot sensing systems  Libraries  Safety  Trajectory 
Abstract: Safe high-speed autonomous navigation for MAVs in unknown environments requires fast planning to enable the robot to adapt and react quickly to incoming information about obstacles within the world. Furthermore, when operating in environments not known a priori, the robot may make decisions that lead to dead ends, necessitating global replanning through a map of the environment outside of a local planning grid. This work proposes a computationally-efficient planning architecture for safe high-speed operation in unknown environments that incorporates a notion of longer-term memory into the planner enabling the robot to accurately plan to locations no longer contained within a local map. A motion primitive-based local receding horizon planner that uses a probabilistic collision avoidance methodology enables the robot to generate safe plans at fast replan rates. To provide global guidance, a memory-efficient sparse topological graph is created online from a time history of the robot's path and a geometric notion of visibility within the environment to search for alternate pathways towards the desired goal if a dead end is encountered. The safety and performance of the proposed planning system is evaluated at speeds up to 10m/s, and the approach is tested in a set of large-scale, complex simulation environments containing dead ends. These scenarios lead to failure cases for competing methods; however, the proposed approach enables the robot to safely reroute and reach the desired goal.


Title: Iterator-Based Temporal Logic Task Planning
Key Words: autonomous aerial vehicles  control system synthesis  discrete event systems  mobile robots  path planning  temporal logic  task specifications  universally quantified locations  constant time  hybrid control  discrete event controller  synthesised plan  iterator-based temporal logic task planning  robotic systems  state explosion  discrete locations  fixed-wing unmanned aerial vehicle  Task analysis  Robot sensing systems  Planning  Fires  Unmanned aerial vehicles 
Abstract: Temporal logic task planning for robotic systems suffers from state explosion when specifications involve large numbers of discrete locations. We provide a novel approach, particularly suited for task specifications with universally quantified locations, that has constant time with respect to the number of locations, enabling synthesis of plans for an arbitrary number of them. We propose a hybrid control framework that uses an iterator to manage the discretised workspace hiding it from a plan enacted by a discrete event controller. A downside of our approach is that it incurs in increased overhead when executing a synthesised plan. We demonstrate that the overhead is reasonable for missions of a fixed-wing Unmanned Aerial Vehicle in simulated and real scenarios for up to 700000 locations.


Title: Reactive Temporal Logic Planning for Multiple Robots in Unknown Environments
Key Words: mobile robots  multi-robot systems  path planning  robot dynamics  temporal logic  multiple robots  reactive mission  unknown environment  temporal logic planning approaches  robot dynamics  known environments  abstraction-free LTL planning algorithm  complex mission planning  complex planning tasks  co-safe linear temporal logic formulas  reactive temporal logic planning  Robot sensing systems  Planning  Task analysis  Heuristic algorithms  Automata 
Abstract: This paper proposes a new reactive mission planning algorithm for multiple robots that operate in unknown environments. The robots are equipped with individual sensors that allow them to collectively learn and continuously update a map of the unknown environment. The goal of the robots is to accomplish complex tasks, captured by global co-safe Linear Temporal Logic (LTL) formulas. The majority of existing temporal logic planning approaches rely on discrete abstractions of the robot dynamics operating in known environments and, as a result, they cannot be applied to the more realistic scenarios where the environment is initially unknown. In this paper, we address this novel challenge by proposing the first reactive, and abstraction-free LTL planning algorithm that can be applied for complex mission planning of multiple robots operating in unknown environments. Our algorithm is reactive in the sense that temporal logic planning is adapting to the updated map of the environment and abstraction-free as it does not rely on designing abstractions of robot dynamics. Our proposed algorithm is complete under mild assumptions on the structure of the environment and the sensor models. Our paper provides extensive numerical simulations and hardware experiments that illustrate the theoretical analysis and show that the proposed algorithm can address complex planning tasks in unknown environments.


Title: Higher Order Function Networks for View Planning and Multi-View Reconstruction
Key Words: image reconstruction  learning (artificial intelligence)  neural nets  object detection  robot vision  shape recognition  solid modelling  stereo image processing  Higher Order function networks  multiview reconstruction  visual inspection  neural network  shape information  deep learning  complete 3D reconstruction  Higher Order Functions  reconstruction quality  multiview HOF network  image acquisition  view planning  visibility quality  shape representation  Three-dimensional displays  Image reconstruction  Planning  Cameras  Surface reconstruction  Inspection  Shape 
Abstract: We consider the problem of planning views for a robot to acquire images of an object for visual inspection and reconstruction. In contrast to offline methods which require a 3D model of the object as input or online methods which rely on only local measurements, our method uses a neural network which encodes shape information for a large number of objects. We build on recent deep learning methods capable of generating a complete 3D reconstruction of an object from a single image. Specifically, in this work, we extend a recent method which uses Higher Order Functions (HOF) to represent the shape of the object. We present a new generalization of this method to incorporate multiple images as input and establish a connection between visibility and reconstruction quality. This relationship forms the foundation of our view planning method where we compute viewpoints to visually cover the output of the multiview HOF network with as few images as possible. Experiments indicate that our method provides a good compromise between online and offline methods: Similar to online methods, our method does not require the true object model as input. In terms of number of views, it is much more efficient. In most cases, its performance is comparable to the optimal offline case even on object classes the network has not been trained on.


Title: Residual Reactive Navigation: Combining Classical and Learned Navigation Strategies For Deployment in Unknown Environments
Key Words: learning (artificial intelligence)  mobile robots  path planning  trajectory control  learned navigation strategies  residual reinforcement learning framework  robotic manipulation literature  mobile robots  residual control effect  sub-optimal classical controller  data efficiency  cluttered indoor navigation tasks  residual reactive navigation  Navigation  Robots  Uncertainty  Training  Task analysis  Learning (artificial intelligence)  Machine learning 
Abstract: In this work we focus on improving the efficiency and generalisation of learned navigation strategies when transferred from its training environment to previously unseen ones. We present an extension of the residual reinforcement learning framework from the robotic manipulation literature and adapt it to the vast and unstructured environments that mobile robots can operate in. The concept is based on learning a residual control effect to add to a typical sub-optimal classical controller in order to close the performance gap, whilst guiding the exploration process during training for improved data efficiency. We exploit this tight coupling and propose a novel deployment strategy, switching Residual Reactive Navigation (sRRN), which yields efficient trajectories whilst probabilistically switching to a classical controller in cases of high policy uncertainty. Our approach achieves improved performance over end-to-end alternatives and can be incorporated as part of a complete navigation stack for cluttered indoor navigation tasks in the real world. The code and training environment for this project is made publicly available at https://sites.google.com/view/srrn/home.


Title: Online Grasp Plan Refinement for Reducing Defects During Robotic Layup of Composite Prepreg Sheets
Key Words: dexterous manipulators  Gaussian processes  path planning  quality control  regression analysis  sheet materials  online grasp plan refinement  robotic layup  composite prepreg  high-performance composites  sheet layup  composite components  deformable sheets  robotic cell  layup process  manual layup  online refinement  environmental factors  Gaussian process regression model offline  grasp plans  GPR  Trajectory  Grasping  Grippers  Robot sensing systems  Computational modeling  Service robots 
Abstract: High-performance composites are increasingly being used in the industry. Sheet layup is a process of manufacturing composite components using deformable sheets. We have developed a robotic cell to automate the layup process and overcome the limitations of the manual layup. Generating offline trajectories for robots and executing them without online refinement can introduce defects in the process due to uncertainties in the model of the sheet and environmental factors. Our system computes layup and grasping trajectories for the robots and refines them during the layup process based on the sensor data. We use an approach that augments physical experiments with simulations to train a Gaussian process regression model offline. The use of GPR enables us to quickly refine grasp plans and perform a defect-free layup without slowing down the layup process. We present experimental results on two components.


